mr president, it is not to speak against, but just a question of whether we should have such an important debate on wednesday or rather on thursday morning, when probably more meps would be able to participate, rather than to have it late on wednesday evening, given how the agenda looks at the moment. so the proposal is to have it, but on thursday in the morning.
madam president, as a person who stands for the rule of law, i am asking the european commission to make it conditional for serbia to repeal the amendments to the law on the organization and competence of state bodies in war crimes procedure that entered into force in 2010. otherwise, serbia will not be able to continue its european path that it has started because it threatens the sovereignty of the republic of croatia and its citizens. in particular, serbia has taken the provisions of this law to be the right to try a croatian citizen for an alleged crime committed on croatian territory against another croatian citizen, which is contrary to international criminal law and european practice. how absurd this law is, is also shown by the fact that on the basis of it, croatian lawyer veljko marić was literally kidnapped in serbia, who was imprisoned by the serbian authorities, and only then issued an international warrant and has been held in prison for 5 years. i therefore expect the european commission to immediately request serbia to suspend this law and also to transfer veljka marić to croatia and allow him a fair trial.
madam president, in the year of dreams, the category of traditional small-scale fishing for personal needs has ceased to exist in croatia. over ten thousand small fishermen have lost the right to make a living by traditional methods and to remain on the islands. and life on the islands is already difficult enough with limited transportation and higher costs. the sustainability of the fisheries as a goal is unquestionable. however, it is questionable how much of the stock is endangered by small-scale fishermen and why, in the absence of relevant scientific research, small-scale fishermen and this category of fisheries are considered to be responsible. there's always been a misuse of the rules, but the solution is better control than prohibition. the commission has also proposed to amend the list of fisheries areas for which the tacs have been set by the member states. the failures in the negotiations for membership of the european union must not be used as an alibi for attacks on small fishermen and our tradition. traditional small-scale fishing is first and foremost a way of life, a part of identity and a prerequisite for existence. that's why we must do everything we can to protect and preserve it.
mr president, i would first like to congratulate italy on its presidency of the european council and i would like to take this opportunity, mr prime minister renzi, to thank you also for the fact that the european union's adriatic-ionian strategy has finally been launched, in the belief that the countries covered by this strategy will have a new opportunity. the four eu member states, italy, croatia, slovenia and greece, and the four non-member countries that are part of this adriatic-ionian strategy, have reason to expect a lot. i call on you, mr. prime minister, that italy, in these coming years of creating this strategy, really remain faithful to this strategy because it will be very difficult without the strong involvement of your country for this strategy to really come to life. there are great expectations in the balkans, in the often turbulent balkans, about this strategy and i expect your active participation in the implementation of the strategy.
written. the italian presidency was marked by a number of extraordinary events which certainly affected the work and results achieved during the six months of the presidency. in agriculture, for example, the italian presidency had to devote considerable attention to the remediation of the consequences of the russian embargo on eu agricultural imports, triggered by the eu sanctions imposed on russia. in the fisheries sector, an important agreement was reached on fishing opportunities in eu waters as well as in non-eu waters for 2015 with a view to conserving stocks. i hope that the protection of small fishermen will also find its place on the agenda in the near future. while the crisis in ukraine was the foreign policy highlight of the italian presidency of the council of ministers, mogherini in july highlighted the problem of libya and migration as the main priorities for italy. italy has prevented a number of tragedies with its new sea rescue mission, mare nostrum, which has saved tens of thousands of migrants this year. the operation was shut down and replaced by a much smaller operation, triton. i therefore call on the latvian presidency to devote particular attention to strengthening common migration policies. in conclusion, i congratulate my italian colleagues on the work they have done and i wish the future presidents much success in their work and an even more successful presidency.
madam president, the document we are about to vote on is not ideal but it fulfills its primary purpose. member states will have more independence to allow or prohibit the cultivation of gmos on their territory. i am pleased that my amendment has been accepted, which obliges biotech companies to cease all activities related to the planting of gmo crops between the time of the proposal and the entry into force of national measures. i think it's a bad move to significantly relax the provisions on the financial responsibility of polluters in the event of transboundary spread of gmos to countries where they are banned. i think that in time it will show up in the worst possible way. in conclusion, i don't think gmos are some kind of devil seed but until we are completely sure of their impact on health and biodiversity, states must have the ability to ban them. in addition, the market for traditional and organic agricultural products is growing and small european countries, like croatia, have multiple economic benefits from being gmo free.
madam president, as a person who is in favour of the principle of subsidiarity, i believe that the member states must have the autonomy to prevent or restrict the release of living genetically modified organisms into the environment. therefore, i ask that this right be respected. i am proud to live in croatia, which is a gmo free country and i am happy that we are surrounded by neighbors who have also decided to be gmo free. over 4 500 local authorities and more than 150 regions in europe have taken decisions in their representative bodies to ban the planting of gmo seeds on their territory.
mr president, i see the issue of gmo cultivation as one of the major points of contention within the european union. this report is a step in the right direction, as it establishes a more efficient system than the one proposed by the council. but i think it does not go far enough in transferring responsibility to the member states. i believe strongly that each of us has the right to choose our own destiny and that no member state should be prevented or forced from growing gmos. i see croatia as a gmo-free country, but i also give everyone the right to see their country differently. i therefore believe that the primary role of the commission in this case should be to monitor and ensure that those who choose gmos do not contaminate those who do not. the main thrust of quality regulation at european level should be primarily to establish effective appropriate buffer zones between gmo-free and gmo-growing areas.
written. i voted in favour of the draft legislative resolution of the european parliament on the proposal for a council decision on the signing of the protocol setting out the fishing opportunities and financial contribution provided for by the fisheries partnership agreement between the european union and the democratic republic of são tomé and príncipe, as the updating of the protocol allows eu vessels to fish in são tomé and príncipe's waters and strengthens cooperation with that republic. however, i consider that in the context of the above, special attention should be paid to the sustainable development of the fishing sector of são tomé and the benefits that this brings. i also support the intention to provide the authorities of são tomé with reliable information on catches and fisheries resources and to establish an effective monitoring body in this regard. in addition, i believe that in order to encourage investment in that country, it is necessary to ensure the development of the fisheries infrastructure.
in august 2014, an agreement was reached between the european union and the democratic republic of são tomé and príncipe establishing a four-year protocol for 32 european union fishermen to fish for tuna off the coast of west africa and off são tomé and príncipe. the protocol provides for payments of eur 710 000 to são tomé and príncipe for the first three years of the agreement, eur 675 000 for the fourth year of the agreement and eur 325 000 to encourage the development of são tomé and príncipe's fisheries sector. the protocol will include the financial contributions of the fishery owner, which will be eur 55 per tonne of catch for the first two years of the agreement, eur 60 per tonne for the third year and eur 70 per tonne of catch for the fourth year. i supported the report on the partnership agreement between the european union and são tomé and príncipe because the implementation of this agreement will open up opportunities for european fishermen in west african and são tomé and príncipe waters and stimulate the development of the fisheries sector in that country.
written. i support the recommendation on the proposal for a council decision on the signing, on behalf of the european union, of the protocol setting out the fishing opportunities and financial contribution provided for in the fisheries partnership agreement between the european union and são tomé and príncipe. the protocol provides for the extension of the fishing opportunities granted to são tomé and príncipe to vessels flying the flag of a member state of the european union. the commission should be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 290 tfeu concerning the conditions for the participation of european union vessels in the joint fisheries management programme. i believe that the said protocol would contribute to a stronger cooperation between the european union and são tomé and príncipe in the area of establishing and developing a sustainable fisheries policy. in the interest of both parties, in line with the authorisation of the exploitation of fishing opportunities by european union vessels, i support the recommendation to use and apply the best advice of renowned scientists in development and research.
written. i have given my consent to the conclusion of the fisheries partnership protocol between the european union and the democratic republic of são tomé and príncipe because i support the purpose of the agreement, which is to give fishing rights to european union vessels in são toméan waters. the aim of the protocol is to strengthen cooperation between the european union and the democratic republic of são tomé and príncipe, but also to establish a sustainable fisheries policy and the sustainable exploitation of fisheries resources in these fishing zones, of course in the interests of both parties. in future negotiations, i believe it is important to allow the participation of representatives of parliament as observers in the joint committee meetings. i also invite the commission to present to parliament and the council, during the last year of application of the protocol, and before the start of negotiations on its extension, a full report on its implementation without undue restrictions on access to that document.
written. - i support the fisheries partnership agreement between the eu and são tomé and príncipe. the agreement generates financial and fisheries benefits for the parties to the agreement and thus for the european union as a whole. the new agreement would cover a period of four years, would open up business opportunities for 34 eu fishing vessels and, in the first three years, would already have a financial contribution of hundreds of thousands of euros. the agreement also opens up possibilities for assistance in the research and development of the fisheries of the democratic republic of são tomé and príncipe, as the european union could financially support the development and control of sustainable catch and the conservation of the fishery. the information currently available is known to be very limited and insufficient to establish in detail the state of the fishery in the democratic republic of são tomé and príncipe. the european union should ensure a more long-term fish supply channel and in doing so contribute to the development and exploration of the fisheries of the democratic republic of são tomé and príncipe, which implies benefits for all parties to the agreement.
written. i consider the extension of the eu-são tomé and príncipe fisheries partnership agreement to be mutually beneficial, as it allows eu countries to continue fishing in são tomé and príncipe waters and the eu, in return for the fisheries, participates in the implementation and development of projects in that country. i also consider the extension of this agreement to be useful because the eu can make a profit from tuna fishing in that area despite the increased amount that ship owners have to pay to são tomé and príncipe. however, i cannot support this agreement because i am concerned about the lack of effective protection for sharks, which are frequent bycatch in são tomé and príncipe waters. since the commission has not taken the necessary measures to prevent this and to protect the sharks, i have abstained.
written. i voted in favour of the draft legislative resolution on the draft council decision on the conclusion of the agreement between the european union and the republic of seychelles on access to fishing opportunities for mayotte, waters and marine biological resources, as this decision allows the continuation of fishing activities by seychelles fishing vessels in the exclusive economic zone of mayotte, which is a historic activity, while respecting the rules of the eu common fisheries policy. following the accession of mayotte as an outermost region of the european union on 1 january 2014, the strategic importance of this agreement leads to the maintenance of preferential relations between the european union and the republic of seychelles. in particular, i consider that the activities mentioned should be carried out while encouraging the development of the fishing sector of mayotte and while preserving the natural resources of the island, and i consider that this promotes the economic development of mayotte and the seychelles.
the agreement between the european union and the seychelles, signed in april 2014, will establish a six-year period for vessels flying the flag of the seychelles to be able to fish within 24 to 100 nautical miles of the coast of mayotte, leaving the area from the coast to 24 nautical miles as the exclusive area for the population of mayotte. the amounts that the fishery owners will be required to pay are eur 110 per tonne for the first year of the agreement, eur 115 per tonne for the second and third years, eur 120 for the fourth and fifth years and eur 125 per tonne for the sixth year of the agreement. the french republic shall collect these funds and allocate them to its overseas territory of mayotte. i supported the report on the agreement between the european union and the seychelles on access for fishing vessels operating in mayotte waters because the funds raised will help the local population and stimulate infrastructure development. the implementation of the agreement allows for a mid-term review of the impact of the agreement and its termination in the event of violations of human rights and the rule of law. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the agreement in the light of the progress made in the implementation of the agreement.
written. i support the recommendation for a draft council decision on the conclusion, on behalf of the european union, of the agreement between the european union and the republic of seychelles on access for fishing vessels flying the flag of seychelles to waters and marine biological resources of mayotte, which falls under the jurisdiction of the european union. the council authorised the european commission to negotiate an agreement with seychelles concerning access by fishing vessels flying the flag of seychelles to the union waters and marine biological resources off the coast of mayotte. the sustainable fisheries partnership agreement, which entered into force in january 2014, governs the main relations between the republic of seychelles and the european union and is the most important agreement of the european union relating to the indian ocean, addressing the access of vessels flying the flag of seychelles to the waters and marine biological resources of mayotte. accordingly, i am convinced that the recommendation of the draft council decision with the implementation of the administrative framework, physical infrastructure, control activities and properly designated capacity buildings could be duly implemented.
written. i have supported this agreement between the eu and seychelles on access for fishing vessels operating in mayotte waters in line with the change of status of mayotte to become an eu outermost region on 1 january 2014. on that date, the current exclusive economic zone (eez) of mayotte became part of eu waters. this agreement will allow vessels flying the flag of seychelles to have access to mayotte from the date of its signature. the fees paid by seychelles operators to obtain authorisations to fish for highly migratory species should, in line with past practice, be paid to mayotte. the commission notes that the compensation is intended to enable mayotte to develop its own management and control system and to manage fisheries and develop capacities.
written. - i support the agreement between the european union and the republic of seychelles on access for fishing vessels flying the flag of seychelles to the waters and marine biological resources of mayotte, which is under the jurisdiction of the european union. this agreement has already been renewed twice and was the first such document concluded by the european union in the indian ocean region and as such a pioneer in the region. the agreement has made the territory of mayotte an external region of the union. it also governs the common fisheries policy of the union and the republic of seychelles and regulates the exploitation of water and biological resources. the admissibility of the agreement is further supported by the fact that it has built-in clauses protecting the eu from possible non-compliance. the exploitation of species which naturally migrate through the area is allowed. the financial effects are more favourable than in previous versions of this agreement.
written. i support the recommendation on the draft council decision on the conclusion of the agreement between the european union and the republic of seychelles on access for fishing vessels flying the flag of seychelles to the resources of mayotte as it concerns issues of sustainable fisheries but also the protection of european waters. as a representative from a country faced with the problem of tuna fishing and the effective management of natural resources to save this endangered species, i support the provisions of the agreement which allow for economic growth on both sides but also better protection of resources in terms of the natural migration of tuna. i consider the agreement to be useful because it restricts access to tuna vessels and at the same time sets a time limit for vessels to be entitled to a fishing licence, and in doing so responds positively to the request of the republic of seychelles to fish in european waters.
written. i voted in favour of the recommendation for a draft council decision on the conclusion, on behalf of the european union and its member states, of the protocol to the euro-mediterranean agreement establishing an association between the european communities and their member states, of the one part, and the republic of tunisia, of the other part, to take account of the accession of the republic of bulgaria and romania to the european union. my vote of support is linked to the fact that there is a euro-mediterranean agreement concerning the relations between the member states of the european union and the republic of tunisia and that the accession of the republic of bulgaria and romania has created the need to amend this agreement, i considered it necessary to support this recommendation.
on 29 september 2014, the council of the european union adopted a decision on the signing and provisional application of the protocol to the euro-mediterranean agreement establishing an association between the european community and its member states, of the one part, and the republic of tunisia, of the other part, to take account of the accession of the republic of bulgaria and romania to the european union. bulgaria and romania joined the european union in 2007. the accession of new member states of the european union to the euro-mediterranean agreement should be agreed in accordance with the protocol to the agreement. the assent of the european parliament is a mandatory component in the completion of the ratification process of the additional protocol, and i therefore supported this report as it does not change the nature of the agreement and the integrity of the internal market remains intact.
written. i supported the protocol to the euro-mediterranean agreement establishing an association between the european communities and their member states, of the one part, and the republic of tunisia, of the other part, which would take account of the accession of the republic of bulgaria and romania to the european union, so as to effectively provide an appropriate framework for a north-south political dialogue as a factor of peace, stability and economic and social development. the protocol will serve as a basis for the gradual liberalisation of trade in the mediterranean area and establish the conditions for economic, social and cultural cooperation between the eu and the partner country. the political, economic and social partnership is based on the principles of reciprocity, solidarity and cooperation, since the objective of the global mediterranean policy is mutual understanding, cooperation, joint initiative, intellectual dialogue, promotion of trade and financial decisions, control of migration, development of qualifications, etc.
written. i support the assent of the european parliament to the protocol to the euro-mediterranean agreement establishing an association between the european communities and their member states, of the one part, and the republic of tunisia, of the other part, to take account of the accession of the republic of bulgaria and romania to the european union. the accession of new member states to the european union creates new circumstances which must be reconciled with those already existing, and i have therefore supported this assent of the european parliament.
written. - the european union is committed to its role in building stronger links and relations with its neighbours. better relations between countries are built on political and economic dialogue promoted by mutual understanding and the creation of common value. the conclusion of the euro-mediterranean association agreement with tunisia is a step forward in promoting regional cooperation between mediterranean countries, thereby fostering economic, social, cultural and political development. furthermore, tunisia was the first country in the southern mediterranean to sign an association agreement with europe in 1995. since then, the tunisian government's policy has been to meet all relevant proposals, especially those for trade liberalization made by the european union. moreover, tunisia is a prime example of how mutual assistance and dialogue can create an effective pathway towards sustainable and inclusive growth and development. tunisia's advantage and strong political will should set an example for other countries in the region, leading to greater prosperity and progress.
written. i supported the decision to conclude the protocol to the euro-mediterranean agreement between the european community and tunisia, which would take account of the accession of bulgaria and romania to the european union, which entered into force on 1 january 2007, and the decision to forward the position on the conclusion of the protocol to the institutions of the european union and to the republic of tunisia. i consider the euro-mediterranean agreements to be important because they primarily provide for the establishment of free trade zones, contribute to the development of political dialogue between countries that depend on the european market and proclaim closer regional and economic cooperation in a multitude of sectors. in this case, i would particularly point to the possibility of implementing measures and operational programmes with regard to the liberalisation of trade in agricultural and industrial products. finally, i believe that the importance of the protocol is reflected in the establishment of a euro-mediterranean area of peace and stability based on the fundamental principles of respect for human rights and democracy, the development of infrastructure, the provision of financial assistance and the promotion of cooperation and understanding between the cultures of free societies.
written. i voted in favour of the request to consult the european economic and social committee on the implementation of the 2011 white paper on transport: analysis and the way forward towards sustainable mobility for the purpose of drawing up a report for parliament. since the request is based on rule 137 of the rules of procedure, on a proposal from the rapporteur himself, and since i consider that the opinion of the european economic and social committee in this respect can certainly contribute to the quality of the report itself, i consider that there are no obstacles to the adoption of this request.
the european commission presented a transport strategy for 2050 in its 2011 white paper on transport. the objective of this strategy is to increase the competitiveness of the transport system in the european union by increasing mobility, removing bottlenecks on key transport routes, reducing dependence on fossil fuels and reducing co2 emissions by 60% by 2050. to succeed in achieving these goals, the european commission has set targets to be met by 2050:- increase the use of less co2-emitting fuels by 40%. - increase by 50% the use of trains in intercity transport instead of cars - gradually replace cars that run on conventional fuels with cars that use alternative fuels or propulsion. i supported the report on the request with the european economic and social committee on translation of the 2011 white paper on transport. i believe that the social partners and civil society must be involved in the implementation of the transport development plan in order to develop the european union's transport networks as efficiently as possible and to reduce congestion on important european roads.
written. i supported the request to consult the european economic and social committee on the implementation of the white paper on the future of transport by 2050, in order to achieve the objectives as quickly as possible through consultation with experts and civil society representatives. the eu has set a series of challenges aimed at removing administrative barriers and fostering innovation to create a single european transport area, so that the mobility of people, goods and services is faster and more efficient. in today's context of increased traffic volumes and excessive pollution, the priority objectives of shifting road freight to rail or water transport, reducing the eu's dependence on oil imports and carbon dioxide emissions, and linking the fragmented road network into a single trans-european transport network (ten-t) should be focused. the adriatic-ionian route is very important for the connection of central and south-eastern europe, which will stimulate the development of the economy and tourism in croatia. i would stress the need for a new role for local units, which can assess congestion and pollution problems most quickly, and use eu funding sources to develop sustainable urban mobility. the commission will continue to support the implementation of the cohesion fund and the cohesion fund for the period 2014-2020 by providing financial support to the cohesion fund. in doing so, increased mobility must not have a negative impact on the environment. i therefore welcome the dialogue with the eesc on the development of transport in the eu.
written. - i support the consultation of the european economic and social committee on the implementation of the 2011 white paper on transport, as the implementation of the plan needs to be continuously monitored and upgraded, and transport is also the basis of economic sustainability. the programme provides for the alignment of transport infrastructure in the western and eastern member states and their high-quality integration. the commission has also concluded that the aid is compatible with the internal market within the meaning of article 107 (3) (c) of the treaty. the eu has committed to significantly reduce its greenhouse gas emissions and is doing so according to plan, while some other international actors are not adhering to this agreement. the majority of transport today uses oil and its derivatives and the use of new technologies to reduce emissions should be encouraged more intensively, and the eu could make a much broader contribution, as european companies are the world leaders in the transport industry. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's policy on air and rail transport, in particular by ensuring that the union's policy on air and rail is consistent with the union's policy on air and rail.
madam president, i have been reluctant about this proposal for a directive because, although it has been improved, it does not fully protect the right of the member states to their sovereignty, nor does it protect the subsidiarity model which i have spoken about in detail in the debate. caring for biodiversity and caring for food production is our duty as legislators. genetic engineering involves the introduction of genes from one species into another, and this can have far-reaching consequences for the environment, food production, and human health. the multinational companies want to dominate the entire food chain and we should have shown them with this directive that this is not acceptable and that they cannot be on the same level as the member states, which unfortunately we have not succeeded in doing. we haven't protected ourselves enough from multinational corporations, but we haven't protected ourselves enough from potential gmo contamination. europe should have been wiser and used its advantage as a green continent. i hope that the commission proposal, which commission president juncker promised this year, will be more in favour of the gmo-free europe that i am advocating.
written. i voted in favour of the draft legislative resolution on the council position at first reading with a view to adopting a directive amending directive 2001/18/ec as regards the possibility for member states to restrict or prohibit the cultivation of gmos on their territory, as i appreciate that after many years of stagnation the problem of planting and sowing gmos in europe is beginning to be solved. although i am personally opposed to the use of gmos in europe and i am aware that this report does not set such high goals, it does open up the possibility for member states to make their own decision, firstly politically and then legally, not to use gmos in their territory. as mayor of istrian, many years ago, i initiated the adoption of a decision declaring istrian county a "gmo free" area. the commission considers that the aid granted to the airlines in question was compatible with the internal market within the meaning of article 107 (3) (c) of the treaty.
in july 2010, the european commission put forward its proposal allowing member states to decide to ban the cultivation of gmos on their territory. after more than four years of negotiations in the council and parliament, an agreement has been reached. given the high sensitivity of member states to the cultivation of gmo products, this issue has caused considerable disagreement within the union, where 149 000 hectares are covered by gmo crops, predominantly in spain and portugal, which are also the largest producers in the european union. on the other hand, 21 european union member states, including croatia, do not allow the planting of gmo crops. this document allows member states, under certain conditions, to restrict or prohibit the cultivation of gmos on their territory even if the same crop is authorised at eu level. this has achieved political consensus and demonstrated the union's willingness to listen to the demands of its citizens and take them into account in its decision-making. i support this report because it allows us to choose what is of particular importance for croatia, but also because it expresses the need for quality control of these crops in order to preserve gmo-free territories.
written. i would like to thank the rapporteur and her colleagues and to support the many provisions which parliament has made to improve this proposal, such as border buffer zones to prevent contamination between member states. i also want to draw attention to the problems of member states which are on the external borders of the union and border countries where gmos are allowed and not protected. i also welcome the new provision whereby member states ask the commission, rather than biotechnology companies, not to authorise gmos on their territory. i also regret that the proposal does not include a provision on financial liability for any damage that might result from the placing of gmos on the market. finally, i am proud to point out that in croatia, more and more counties have declared themselves gmo-free zones. croatian gmo technology is definitely not needed given the good structure of production in the ratari and the abundance of land that we can use additionally. the harmful impact on the environment, biodiversity and local agricultural production, as well as public resistance, are legitimate reasons for member states wishing to do so to have the right to restrict the introduction of gmos on their market.
written. i supported the directive of the european parliament and of the council amending directive 2001/18/ec as regards the possibility for member states to restrict or prohibit the cultivation of genetically modified organisms (gmos) on their territory because i believe that a high-quality legal framework governing the cultivation of gmos should be established, precisely to ensure the safe development of modern biotechnology, namely gmos. this framework pursues the overall objective of ensuring a high level of protection of life, health and welfare, the environment and the interests of consumers, while ensuring the effective functioning of the internal market. in accordance with the principle of subsidiarity and through a two-step procedure, member states are given more flexibility to decide whether to grow gm crops on their territory. we need to improve food control across the board to sustain the world's population growth, to combat hunger and climate change, which will make fertile soils much harder to farm. the government of the republic of croatia, at its meeting on 24 december 2008, adopted a decision on the establishment of the council for genetically modified organisms, which will, inter alia, monitor the state and development of the use of genetic technology and the use of gmos, monitor scientific developments, provide opinions and advice to competent authorities related to the use of gmos and genetic technology, and report to the public.
written. i believe that a directive allowing member states to restrict or prohibit the cultivation of gmos opens the door to gmos and cross-border pollution throughout europe and therefore i did not support its adoption. although 500 million citizens and 19 member states are clearly opposed to gmos, the european union has unfortunately caved in to the pressure of multinational companies. we are at risk of an increase in the number of authorised gm crops. the gmo products will thus be easier to put on the table in every european home, thanks to the free internal market. for the republic of croatia, as for all member states free of gmos, their spread may hamper the development of small farms which are the basis of economic progress in croatia and the last chance for the recovery of croatian agriculture. the commission has also concluded that the aid is compatible with the internal market within the meaning of article 107 (3) (c) of the treaty. we must ensure that our own, and especially future generations, can live on organically and healthily produced food and follow a policy of environmental protection, biodiversity and domestic agricultural production.
written. - i support the draft legislative resolution of the european parliament on the restriction or prohibition of the cultivation of gmos in the territory of member states which so wish, as it is necessary to leave room for accepting certain cultural and geographical specificities of the area. it is important to emphasise that this is not an endorsement of gmos but only the possibility of their use with overwhelming scientific evidence of harmlessness to health and the environment and respect for cultural and political practices. member states will regulate gmos themselves, but they must not go below the eu standard. the new legislation allows eu member states to ban the cultivation of products containing genetically modified organisms (gmos) on their territory, even if these products are approved at eu level. the directive will become official in spring 2015 and will provide greater flexibility for member states wishing to ban the cultivation of gmos in their country. member states must ensure that gm cereals, if available, do not contaminate other products, in particular by preventing cross-border contamination of products. there is no longer a risk that countries that ban gmo food will be subject to legal proceedings. it is very important that each eu country, under the principle of subsidiarity, decides for itself whether to grow gmo food, listening to the wishes and needs of its citizens.
written. i voted in favour of the draft legislative resolution on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending regulation (eu) no 1343/2011 laying down certain provisions for fisheries in the area covered by the gfcm agreement, as the amendments introduce into the regulation certain measures contained in the gfcm recommendations which contribute to the conservation, development and rational management of marine resources. the proposal, which i support, contains a number of measures leading to the sustainable exploitation of red coral, the reduction of bycatch of certain species and the conservation of others in the gfcm agreement area. the conservation of the mediterranean's marine resources, which are often threatened by environmental and human factors and represent a significant part of europe's heritage, is of paramount importance.
the general fisheries commission for the mediterranean (gfcm) promotes the development, conservation and sustainable management of marine ecosystems in the mediterranean and the black sea. the gfcm cooperates with croatia, bulgaria, cyprus, france, greece, italy, malta, romania, slovenia and spain, as well as with many countries in north africa and the middle east. the general fisheries commission for the mediterranean has adopted a number of recommendations to regulate the sustainable exploitation of red coral, the reduction of incidental catches of sea turtles and seals, and the high protection of endangered species of marine organisms such as sharks and rays. i supported the report on the fisheries regulations in the area of the agreement on the general fisheries commission for the mediterranean as i believe that the gfcm recommendations provide a sufficient level of safety for endangered species and sustainable fisheries.
written. i voted in favour of this proposal for a regulation laying down certain provisions for fisheries in the area covered by the gfcm agreement. the technical measures adopted will help to care for protected species such as the mediterranean bear or sea turtle, as well as efforts to sustainably use economically important species such as red coral in the mediterranean, black sea and adriatic. i particularly welcome the adoption of the 14th, 18th and 19th amendments tabled by the committee on fisheries of the european parliament. the proposed text was improved by the 14th and 18th amendments from the point of view of small-scale fishermen, especially those involved in catching squid. the last of these adopted amendments is also important because of the experience of fishing in the adriatic sea. the commission has also proposed to extend the period of validity of the fishing authorisations granted to the vessels concerned by the new regulation to the period of validity of the fishing authorisations granted to the vessels concerned by the new regulation. for example, more than one third of the days spent fishing for small blue fish do not result in any net being put in the sea, for a number of reasons, such as: abrupt weather changes, the appearance of dolphins or tuna that scatter the fish, the strengthening of the sea currents, the impossibility of finding fish on certain days, and so on. the adopted amendment allows for the flexibility needed by croatian fishermen to continue with the existing fishing practice, i.e. to count only the time with registered catches in the fishing days.
written. i support the proposed package of provisions for fisheries in the area of the agreement of the general fisheries commission for the mediterranean. i believe that the package proposed, further enhanced by amendments, is a good framework for fishermen in the mediterranean. in particular, i support the provision proposed by me in the adopted amendment, which, under article 16, requires four member states to ensure that vessels equipped with trawls, seines and surrounding nets for small pelagic stocks as defined in paragraph 2 do not operate for more than 20 fishing days with a catch per month and 180 fishing days with a catch per year. i consider that this provision is fairer to the fishermen and that the days when no catches were made should not be deducted from the days permitted to fishermen for their activities. this is especially true of croatian swimming fishermen, who can only fish on days without a moon and who, unlike floating carts, are also threatened by predators and currents. this provision will also allow more accurate statistics to be kept on days without catches, fishing effort, etc., which can be used to develop future technical management measures.
written. i support the report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending regulation (ec) no 1343/2011 of the european parliament and of the council of 13 december 2011 laying down certain provisions for fisheries in the area covered by the agreement on the gfcm (general fisheries commission for the mediterranean) as i consider that the measures adopted by the gfcm follow the overall objective of ensuring and promoting the development, conservation and rational exploitation of living marine resources. the gfcm shall promote joint organisation and integrated cooperation related to the exploitation of living marine resources in the mediterranean and the black sea. i particularly welcome the measures adopted by the general fisheries commission for the mediterranean aimed at the conservation and a high level of protection of a number of living organisms and consider that those measures represent a satisfactory level of protection of fishery resources. the general fisheries commission has been successfully cooperating and working with a number of countries, including the republic of croatia, and is implementing structural changes in the field of aquaculture and fisheries.
written. i support the amendments mentioned, bearing in mind that they contain certain technical measures aimed at enhancing the sustainable exploitation of red coral, reducing incidental catches of seabirds, sea turtles and whales, but also preserving mediterranean sea urchins, sharks and rays. all of these species face numerous threats to their survival. red coral is particularly at risk, which, because of its economic benefits, is a frequent target of illegal exports. the commission should be able to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 21 concerning the conditions for the authorisation of the use of certain gears and gear in the fisheries sector. adding to the red coral's plight is the global warming we are witnessing, as well as the growing problem of marine pollution. for all these reasons, as well as the realization that red coral is a natural resource that will be lost if we do not act in time, we need to manage red coral rationally. we must urgently identify the limits to which it is possible to optimally exploit coral so as not to jeopardize its ability to regrow in the same habitat. i support this report because it is the first step towards achieving this objective.
written. i support the provision for fisheries in the gfcm agreement area which the gfcm adopted at its annual meetings 2011 and 2012 for measures for the sustainable exploitation of red coral in its area of competence which need to be transposed into union law. one of these measures concerns the use of remotely operated underwater vehicles. the second measure concerns red coral catches which can now be landed in a limited number of ports with appropriate port facilities. the commission shall be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 26 to supplement this regulation by laying down detailed rules for the application of this regulation. i also welcome the special emphasis on the care of injured animals or animals that have been accidentally caught.
written. - i support the amendment of the regulations for fisheries in the area of the gfcm (general fisheries commission for the mediterranean) agreement, because the proposed amendments respect science and practice. the european commission is proposing very strict regulations on the exploitation of red coral, sea turtles, seabirds, various species of whales and other species in the mediterranean sea. the commission should also be able to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 21 of regulation (eu) no 1380/2013 in order to amend the list of species to which the derogation applies. the commission should be able to assess the impact of the measures on the conservation status of sea turtles and the conservation status of other species of sea turtles. the commission shall, by means of implementing acts, lay down the rules for the application of this regulation, in particular the rules on the protection of the marine environment and the rules on the protection of the marine environment. the commission shall be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 26 to supplement this regulation by laying down detailed rules for the application of this regulation. as the adriatic sea is also included in this provision, croatia should take into account the opinion of scientists and regulate certain issues in national legislation, in order to maximise the specificities of the adriatic sea and the mediterranean as a whole.
mr. president, mr. tusk, i wish you welcome and success in your new duties. i would like to refer to the conclusions of the first council meeting chaired by you, and express my satisfaction with the initial support for the investment plan. it is not often that the leaders of all the member states reach a consensus and give political support to a proposal with relative ease, as has happened with mr juncker's proposal. there is a broad consensus among the leaders of the member states and the various political groups in the european parliament. the need for such a plan after years of recession and stagnation in the european union, caused also by a lack of investment, i support the proposed plan as one of the first promises fulfilled, but i look forward to the council's further work on the economic and social reconstruction of the european union. the union's policy towards ukraine and the other eastern partnership countries has exposed them for too long to the negative consequences of the tensions between the new east and the new west. i agree with your assessment that the european union should pursue a proactive policy. ukraine is not a vital part of some emerging post-soviet entity but a country in the regular process of joining the european union and deserves our more serious financial support in addition to political support.
mr. president, for too long, the situation in libya has been on the fringes of the international community's attention. it's time for that to change, because the struggle between the authorities in tobruk and the islamist militias, and of course the growing influence of the so-called islamic state in libya, are again turning this country into a threat to international security. such a situation on the southern mediterranean coast calls for a strong engagement of the european union, first and foremost its external services, but also development policies, especially in the area of building effective institutions. it's situations like libya that are the reason why we want to include in the new global development framework the development goals on peaceful societies and institution building. but it is a long-term strategy. maybe that's what should have been done after the overthrow of the gaddafi regime but it needs to be done now and immediately. the high representative's role is crucial in coordinating possible actions by member states, in contacts with the us and nato, but also with other important actors such as qatar or the united arab emirates. it is also important to strongly support the work of the un secretary-general's envoy, bernardin leon, and i am pleased that the high representative has done so. however, i think that one more issue needs to be opened, and that is turkey's policy towards the islamist factions in libya, and to clearly indicate the eu's support for the legitimate authorities and the house of representatives in tobruk. finally, i would like to stress that in the case of libya, christians are also a particular target of islamist radicals and that a way must be found to provide special care and protection for the christian minority.
written. humanitarian disaster, fires that could cause environmental disaster and the potential blockade of an international airport are just part of the daily lives faced by the libyan people. in the face of this extremely difficult situation, more and more people are leaving for europe in search of a better life, paying smugglers very large sums of money, and then being abandoned on so-called ghost ships without food or water. although the basic conditions for libya's development are very good and the country has oil reserves that are sufficient for approximately the next six and a half decades, on the other hand, the state institutions in libya are practically non-functional. islamists openly oppose the elected government, and extremists spread terror. efforts by the international community to continue to call for dialogue between the warring parties have not yielded results. the threat of islamists in libya, it's a threat to all of us. the institutions of the european union must help to ensure peace and stability in libya, as this is a prerequisite for stability in the entire region. in addition, given the ongoing attacks on christians in libya as well as on other religious minorities whose freedom of religion is being violated, it is necessary to introduce effective monitoring of the respect for human rights in libya when concluding new bilateral agreements between the eu and the member states with libya.
madam president, on large cargo ships, over 50 years old, with forged documents, people are traveling to europe, risking drowning, endless sea wandering and death, because they want a better life. they're fleeing mostly from the war zones of the middle east and the poverty of africa. among these people, most of whom were from syria and eritrea last year, are many children and pregnant women. the annual turnover of traffickers is about 8 billion euros and they will do anything to keep that money. there are four main routes for human smuggling: the western mediterranean, the central, the eastern and the balkan routes. most of the illegal immigrants arrive by the most dangerous sea route from turkey, the eastern route to italy, where the ships were found last week, the so-called ghost ships abandoned near european waters, full of women and children. the real question is why turkey did not react in time, because frontex, as the agency managing operational cooperation at the external borders of the member states of the european union, cannot go to the open sea and to the turkish coast. the main role of frontex is to protect europe from illegal immigrants, human trafficking and the entry of terrorists, but the question is how many people smugglers have been prosecuted so far and whose role is to help refugees and immigrants. member states have an obligation under international law to save all those at sea, but with the abolition of some national projects, expectations seem to be rising from frontex, which has neither the money, the capacity, the people nor the authority to deal effectively with these problems and human destinies on its own.
(the president's opening remarks are incomprehensible) a burning european problem and i welcome the institution's awareness of the need to address it as quickly and comprehensively as possible. i believe that we must tackle the problem at its core by cooperating with third countries whose territory is the main base of criminals who profit from the tragedy of others. but i believe that by encouraging legal migration under the guise of fighting smugglers, we will only cause new problems. the opening of new legal migration routes will not necessarily drive criminals out of their lucrative business, but will certainly create additional financial and security pressures on member states. i believe that opening up new waves of migration must have a clear basis in the mutual needs of the european labour market or education system on the one hand and migrants on the other. otherwise, it is only an additional burden on the already overburdened social systems of many member states.
madam president, the problem we're dealing with today is a problem that's been going on for decades, in one form or another, but it's been going on for decades. it will continue, and it will become more pronounced and more dangerous as our neighborhood becomes more affected by social unrest and, unfortunately, war, especially in recent years. so i'm with those who think we need solidarity, but double solidarity. solidarity with the people who are suffering, solidarity with those who are in distress, but also solidarity amongst ourselves here in the european union, amongst the member states. and that's the solidarity we need. we need humanitarian corridors and we need the appropriate visa regime, and we need all the things that our colleagues have brought up before because that's the only way to solve the problem. repression is not an alternative to solving problems.
written. following the humanitarian tragedy near lampedusa, when hundreds of migrants and asylum seekers lost their lives in a shipwreck, we unanimously called for effective action by the european union against trafficking in human beings. the launch of operation triton, an eu-funded frontex operation aimed at reinforcing border controls in waters off the italian coast, is welcomed. in december, the european parliament approved the eu's 2015 budget. the budget for foreign policy was increased by €32 million, and frontex also received more funds. unfortunately, in recent weeks we have witnessed a new dimension in the smuggling of illegal immigrants into europe: smugglers have replaced small boats with cargo ships! since december 20th, three unmanned cargo ships with a guided autopilot system carrying about 2,000 illegal aliens have ended up on the italian coast. the smuggling mafia is expanding a lucrative multi-million dollar business and the crime is assuming megalomaniacal proportions that merit the label of attempted mass murder. increasing funding is not enough, this is about eu foreign policy and relations with turkey, from which the "dark ships" are coming. a strong and comprehensive approach to migration policy is needed, a strong interaction between the eu's internal and external policies in pursuit of a legal solution within the framework of the international law of the sea, and strong criminal sanctions for trafficking and smuggling of human beings.
mr president, the under-representation of women in management positions in european companies is one of the first-rate political challenges, but i fear that we are approaching it too one-dimensionally at the moment. i don't think there's a single person in this council who thinks that a significantly lower percentage of women in corporate leadership positions relative to men is a good thing. but many, including myself, feel that forcing that number up could easily backfire. any discrimination must be punished rigorously, but the big question is whether we will make the quota system women respected in the business world. i would say that we are, unfortunately, making them objects that serve to fill the form instead of subjects that by their knowledge and ability absolutely deserve the respect of their male colleagues.
madam president, organised crime is a growing security threat to member states. in addition to undermining their legal order and financial stability, it is increasingly involved in providing terrorist groups with funds, weapons, and personnel. the recent tragic events in france have shown that our mutual cooperation is needed more than ever. today's media reports about how bullets from the paris crime scene originated in bosnia and herzegovina and made their way to france via croatia, have deeply disturbed me, as they have exposed many flaws in our security network. i believe that security cooperation between member states must be intensified, but i hope that this will be done through concrete actions at the lowest levels, and not by the accumulation of administrations and unnecessary joint bodies that exist far from the ground and the real threats to the security of our citizens.
mr president, i want to welcome mrs president, and if you could talk about the curriculum of a country then 25 years of breaking away from the soviet union, 10 years of joining the european union and a year in the eurozone are really fascinating data. i want to thank you for that. i understand you in particular because i come from croatia, a country that has gone through a similar journey, but perhaps a little more complex than latvia's journey. you've managed to become a model country and i really want to thank you for that. i thank you for the speech you gave here this morning, in which you said what your priorities are, but above all in view of the situation we are in and referring to the events in paris and to your priorities which will be more humanity, more solidarity, more concern for other cultures and for coexistence. that's what we all have to build. but of course, all of this will not happen without an economically strong europe. so your priorities are very important and i am particularly pleased that you support the juncker plan for investment and, most importantly, that your programme is compatible with the european commission's programme. this is the first time that, i hope, all the institutions will work together in some way and that there are no major differences at this point either between the council and the commission. you may hear some critical tones from this parliament, but parliament wants the good and is aware that we must all work together, it is aware that we must have one mainstream that will make europe truly competitive. what i also want to commend is the commitment to the digital union and the digital economy, but also the energy union for obvious reasons. as for your global engagement, it's very important given your geopolitical situation, so your attitude towards the territorial integrity of ukraine, which i consider very important. also, we should not forget the migration to the south. i really want to congratulate you, and i agree with the headlines that have come out these days: "small country with big agenda".
written. as shadow rapporteur for the in vitro medical devices regulation and the directive on the transparency of medicines pricing measures, i hope that the latvian presidency of the european council will bring about the legislative progress that the european parliament and european patients have been waiting for too long. i call on my colleagues in the council to tackle the growing problem of excessive alcohol consumption in europe, especially among young people. alcoholism costs the european economy some 150 billion euros a year, while the social damage is immeasurable. i hope that my latvian colleagues will show a little political courage and propose new solutions to this problem. i welcome the announcement that one of the priorities will be the regulation and development of ehealth and mhealth technologies. these are tools that can help national health systems in a situation where costs are rising and budgets are falling.
on behalf of the alde club. madam president, on behalf of the alde group, i support everything you have said about the terrorist attack in paris, and i express my sympathy to the french people and to all the victims, that is, their friends and relatives. the report in question is as comprehensive as ever, but i think that what is the title of this item on the agenda is that it is difficult to see what the main aspects and the fundamental sources of the common foreign and security policy are. so we have a discussion in this session about egypt and turkey, which are strategic partners of the european union, which should help resolve the crisis in the middle east and north africa, the peace process with the kurds, the peace process to resolve the cyprus crisis, probably also the impact on the integration process of the western balkan countries and vice versa - the positive impact of that integration on the positive relations with turkey, but this is not in this report. i think there is no compromise between justified criticism of the undemocratic actions of the authorities and encouraging our partners and potential allies to implement democratic reforms. when it comes to the external security and defence policy, we talk about the need for more opportunities, for greater impact, for more common ground, but our own reports, which are on the agenda of our committees these days, say that there has been no implementation of common measures or at least not at the level of the stated ambitions and that there are structural deficiencies in this policy which has existed for years. madam high representative, yes, this report should indeed have more recognizable main aspects and fundamental choices.
madam vice-president, the tragedies in paris, nigeria and pakistan, the many crises already under way in ukraine, syria, iraq and elsewhere mark the beginning of another year. i support focusing on ukraine as an external policy priority of the european union, but i would like to point out the need for additional engagement in the western balkans which, as an area surrounded by the union, deserves our full attention. this is particularly true of bosnia and herzegovina, whose problems are fortunately not on the same scale as those in ukraine, but are nevertheless an important stress test for brussels' foreign policy. attention should be paid to the continuation of the european union's enlargement policy, but on the principles of greater responsibility of the candidate countries, to prevent policies that lead to renewed conflict and the destruction of democratic standards. the continuation of the process of recognising palestinian statehood will also be an important issue. in these turbulent times, when local crises can quickly turn into regional and even global ones thanks to globalisation, you have a unique opportunity to strengthen the union's common foreign and security policy, which has often been a dilemma area. i wish you the best of luck with that.
mr president, there are several crisis hotspots in the world today in which the european union wishes to be more actively involved as a mediator and as a guarantor of stability and peace. but active conflict resolution, while noble and necessary, also poses a security threat, as those who are dissatisfied with the solution increasingly turn to european citizens to punish them for what they consider to be the failings or bad intentions of european policy. therefore, i believe that in parallel with a more active role in the world crises must go a better security policy on our soil. i believe, first of all, that cooperation between the competent national authorities and the security forces should be raised to the highest possible level in order to detect and respond more effectively to potential threats. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's external action and will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's external action. the commission has also proposed that the commission should be able to take part in the negotiations with the united states on the basis of the 'blue card' principle.
answer the question posed by raising the blue card. sometimes big countries, for their own interests, play with the lives of other small countries. i think what's happening in syria right now is the result of big countries playing with the fate of small nations. i believe that israel and palestine should sit down and try to solve their problems on their own. we can't solve someone's problems if they don't want to solve theirs.
mr president, vice-president, i thank you, high representative mogherini, for the comprehensive presentation of your priorities, and i thank my colleague, pierre vimont, for his contribution to the work of the european external action service and the european union's external policy over the past five years. it seems to me that after paris, the issue of internal security is becoming as important as the european union's global positioning in line with the priorities defined in the new commission's work programme and in line with the mission entrusted to you by commission president juncker. i think it's crucial that we build up our foreign policy credibility over the next five years. i will, as one of the european union's foreign policy spokespersons from the european parliament's point of view and as head of delegation for ukraine, strive to ensure that our joint action is coordinated and coherent and that we achieve results that will lead to peace and stability for a country that is our main focus.
mr. president, the tragedy in paris has shaken europe. the paris tragedy also united europe in a way. we have all been in solidarity with the french people, we have all shown unity and it is good that european leaders are together and holding hands in paris because that too is a proof of european solidarity and european unity. what i want to highlight as one dimension that was not discussed here is that many leaders of islam, many muslims were in solidarity with us in europe and share our european values. i think that dimension is very important. the mufti of zagreb condemned this crime, but he also offered something else - he offered a way of functioning of islam and catholicism as it is in croatia, in a country that is a known catholic country to a large extent but islam and catholicism in croatia function well. maybe we have good models in europe.
vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. - mr president, the violence by boko haram in the north-east of nigeria is becoming daily more extreme and more threatening to the region. i would like to thank you for having this debate today: i think it is crucial that, as well as discussing our own security threats, we do not lose sight of what is happening in relation to major terrorist threats in other parts of the world. this is also very much part of our counter-terrorist communication strategy. in the last few months alone, hundreds of innocent civilians have been killed, more kidnapped and thousands displaced. the attack on the border town of baga last week is only the latest in a long series of attacks and bombings, and increasingly frequent attacks into cameroon demonstrate that the threat is regional and is becoming even more so. the objective is increasingly to spread terror and gain territorial control, with the indiscriminate targeting of everybody – christians, muslims, traditional and religious leaders, teachers, students, farmers, market traders, villagers, women and children. but i would highlight in particular the attack on christians and the attack on girls, especially girls studying, who are a strong symbol of change in their own societies. the numbers are frightening: around 13 000 killed since 2009 – more than half of this number in the course of 2014. there are 1.5 million internally-displaced people in nigeria, 155 000 refugees in niger, 37 000 in cameroon and 11 000 in chad, putting stress on local communities and potentially creating further conflicts. the breakdown of administration and law and order in wide areas of north-east nigeria will also make the holding of elections in these three states increasingly difficult. the eu is committed – and will probably need to be even more committed – to supporting these countries in the struggle against boko haram. the question is: what can we effectively do in the short term and in the long term? whatever we do, we need to do it in close cooperation with the countries affected. in the short term there must be an effective military and humanitarian response to the crisis. the countries of the region have undertaken to create a multinational joint task force, which has not yet been mobilised. the eu is willing to help support the coordination of this force and is already providing eur 10 million in counter-terrorism assistance to the office of the nigerian national security advisor. the eu humanitarian aid and civil protection department (echo) is also providing what humanitarian help it can to the refugees and displaced. in the medium term, it is crucial that the people of these states also have the prospect of development and jobs and a government that can protect them and respond to their needs. to win this war, the ‘hearts and minds’ of the populations affected have to be won, otherwise our efforts, including at security level, will not achieve their target. and rules of engagement have to be respected by the security forces. this is the message we conveyed at the last ministerial dialogue with nigeria in november, when we invited nigeria to speed up the implementation of the planned actions and to reinforce respect for human rights so that the european union and its member states can join forces with local initiatives in a more concrete and effective way.
on behalf of the ppe club. mr president, high representative, while the attention of our european and world public was focused primarily on the barbaric attack in paris, in nigeria boko haram literally razed the town of baga to the ground. so i would like to repeat here the words of nigerian catholic archbishop ignatius kaigama and i quote: "i see a very positive response from the french government after the killing of french citizens. and that spirit needs to be spread, not just when it comes to attacks in europe, but when it comes to attacks in nigeria, niger, cameroon, or other poorer countries. we must mobilize international resources to confront those who have inflicted so much pain on so many families. ladies and gentlemen, it is normal to react more strongly when something happens in our country, on our continent. we can and must be proud of the solidarity shown by the peoples and citizens of europe to the victims in paris. but our values are universal, and so we must show active solidarity with the victims of islamic radicalism in nigeria. two thousand people were massacred by boko haram in baga. it's time to say i'm a bag too. because the attack on bagh is an attack on our values, boko haram is establishing a caliphate in northern nigeria and becoming a global threat like the jihadists in syria, iraq or libya. finally, one of my observations as a member of the development committee: we need to adapt our development cooperation to the new priorities of fighting terrorism and radicalism, because let's not kid ourselves, boko haram is making so much progress partly because of the weak institutions of the nigerian state and endemic corruption. the commission will continue to support the development of the union's external relations, in particular through the european external action service (eeas).
madam president, as the cyber-hacking group cyber berkut attacks its targets in cyberspace, and their classically armed allies threaten the country's territorial integrity, in the real space of ukraine, we must urgently respond to the deepening recession in the second year of the war. the economy will shrink by 6%. last year's drop was a high 7.5%. the national currency, the hryvnia, had the worst performance in the world with a 38 percent loss in value. the government in kiev is asking for another $15 billion in aid, and some experts say that only $50 billion would be enough for a sustainable reconstruction program. however, ukraine could only receive these funds if it fulfils the well-known objectives of international creditors: the expansion of the tax base, the deregulation of industry, the improvement of the business climate and the sale of state assets. in doing so, we must prevent extreme austerity from putting more people at risk of losing their livelihoods than war itself. because a million people have fled their homes, 1,500,000 live in difficult conditions in conflict zones, and 1,700,000 children are affected by a crisis with no end in sight.
madam vice-president, thank you for your views on the main elements of your engagement with ukraine and i appreciate that at the beginning of your mandate you already visited kiev and had a firsthand experience of the elections to the new verkhovna rada on 26 october, where i had the pleasure, together with other colleagues in the european parliament, of leading an observation mission and of observing that these elections were conducted in accordance with high international standards. as the chairman of the parliamentary committee on association between ukraine and the european union, i express my condolences to the ukrainian people and the ukrainian authorities for the terrorist attack that took place yesterday in volnovakh, where 12 civilians, ukrainian citizens, were killed. this is further proof that ukraine is the victim of aggression and undeclared hybrid war by russia, therefore we as the european union must firmly insist on preserving the territorial integrity of ukraine, and that when it comes to parts of dombas, but also, contrary to international law, the annexed crimea and our policy of restrictive measures against russia must be constant.
president-in-office of the council. - madam president, this is the first european thematic year to be dedicated to eu external relations, and it will give us a unique opportunity to bring eu development cooperation into the spotlight throughout the whole year. the eu has been engaged in development cooperation since 1957. it has long been the largest donor of official development assistance in the world and aspires to continue to remain the largest donor for the years to come. this is something we can be proud of, but it is also something which is unknown to many of our own citizens, however supportive they are of development cooperation. hence we need to communicate more and better on what we do. the european year for development will highlight the results that the eu, acting together with its member states, has achieved and will continue to strive for in the future. we will work to foster direct involvement and critical thinking on the part of eu citizens and stakeholders in development cooperation. we want to show that eu development cooperation is good not only for eu partner countries but also for eu citizens. in a changing and increasingly interdependent world in which major shifts have taken place in the global economic and political balance, we should spare no effort to stimulate a sense of shared responsibility and solidarity among citizens in europe and in partner countries. the 2014 eurobarometer paints a clear picture. more than 85% of eu citizens say that the eu should continue development cooperation efforts, and 67% think that the eu should actually be giving more aid. this is despite the current economic difficulties. at the same time, eu citizens also demand that we use public funds effectively and efficiently to achieve concrete results in terms of reducing poverty and building a more stable, peaceful, prosperous and equitable world. in 2015, the international community will have to agree on a new post-2015 development agenda. we will have the third financing for development conference in july in addis ababa, the un post-2015 summit in september, and the global climate agreement at cop 21 in paris in december. the european year for development will enrich the debate on the challenges we face in shaping future eu development policies. the twelve thematic months will put a strong focus on some of the most important topics related to development: education, gender, food security, demography, immigration, human rights and governance, to name but a few. the eu institutions and member states, but also local authorities, ngos social partners and the private sector, will be closely involved. the european year for development was launched in riga on 9 january this year with the presence of mr jean-claude juncker, ms federica mogherini, the prime minister of latvia, ms laimdota straujuma and the chair of the committee on development of the european parliament, ms linda mcavan. the riga event focused on good governance as a key priority for the eu both at home and in the post-2015 process. several member states will officially launch their own programmes in the coming days: belgium, austria, ireland and france are some examples. the member states will organise a large number of events and activities at all levels throughout the year. in addition to the riga event last week, in march the latvian presidency will hold a high-level conference in riga on gender, women’s economic empowerment and sustainable development in the post-2015 agenda. apart from high-visibility events in latvia, we have centralised the activities to make the year as close to the citizens as possible. it will be implemented by all relevant stakeholders, ngos, private sector representatives, academia, line ministries and local authorities. in may, expo milan will open its doors to thousands of visitors, involving them and inviting them to reflect on the theme of ‘feeding the planet, energy for life’. this will be another unique opportunity for the eu to showcase the achievements of its development policy. i would like to underline how well the european parliament, the council, the member states and the commission have worked together in preparing the european year for development. the european parliament played a key role, and mr charles goerens has been a very dedicated and enthusiastic rapporteur. the discussions and exchanges between the european parliament and the council have always been constructive. the programme of activities prepared by the european parliament will make a significant contribution to that success. i have no doubt that we will all continue to demonstrate the shared sense of commitment and implementation throughout 2015. i can assure you that the presidency will do its utmost to ensure the success of this important endeavour.
vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. - madam president, i would like to thank the latvian presidency very much for the launch of the year that they organised last friday in riga. i was personally very happy to be present, together with the prime minister, the presidents of the commission, the committee of the regions and the economic and social committee, and linda mcavan. it allowed us to highlight the important role of the european parliament in the process and also that of many ngos and young people. i think that one of the things that we will need to work on very much – and i really appreciate the latvian presidency’s focus on that – is to make this year a european year, a year of the european people, and not only an institutional year. we have to use, in particular, the links through ngos, civil society organisations, schools, universities, and young people. you have also presented a couple of exciting competitions for normal people. i think this is really going to be a very unique opportunity – a unique opportunity in a unique year somehow. the year 2015 is the year in which the millennium development goals come to an end. some of them will have results, some of them will not. it is also the year in which the whole global community is going to be working on the final decisions on the post-2015 agenda. this will give us europeans, in particular, the chance to work on our own internal responsibilities, as most likely the post-2015 agenda will also ask us to meet some goals internally – we tend to forget that we also have problems of inequality, poverty, lack of access to basic fundamental rights – and to work seriously on policy coherence internally, as i said, but also externally. i think this is going to be a great chance for us together, without partners in the rest of the world, to work on the root causes of not meeting millennium development goals this year – and also on those that were met – on ways of improving results. i would only say that tonight i also speak on behalf of my colleague, commissioner mimica, who unfortunately, due to the time could not be present, and on behalf of commissioner vella. they were both present at the launch of the year in riga last week, and together with them we stand ready to work together with the presidency, the council, the european parliament and all the stakeholders, starting from the international ones and the ngos, to make this year a success.
on behalf of the ppe club. madam president, the security and prosperity of europe are more than ever linked to events on other continents in underdeveloped countries, often caught up in armed conflicts or epidemics that they cannot control themselves and which then become global threats. so, for moral, humanistic reasons, but also for security-political reasons, europe has a strong policy of development cooperation, and as we heard from president juncker at the opening of the european year of development in riga, and now from the high representative, the european union intends to maintain its leadership in development cooperation, strengthen its global role, continue to be a force for good in the world, and thereby also ensure peace, security, health and prosperity for european citizens. however, it is important that this message reaches european citizens. to involve them more than ever in defining priorities in development cooperation. this should also be the main objective of the european year of development, especially at a time when a new development framework is being negotiated on the international stage to replace the millennium development goals. we adopted a resolution in november setting out the priorities that the european parliament wants to highlight in a new, global development framework, which must be transformative and focus not only on the symptoms but also on the causes of poverty and inequality in the world. the commission will continue to support the implementation of the eu's new strategy for the middle east and north africa, and will continue to support the implementation of the eu's new strategy for the middle east and north africa. it was not the focus of the millennium development goals, but now it has to become part of the new development framework, because without it we will neither eradicate poverty nor reduce inequality. i would like to end the last few seconds i have to congratulate the leadership shown by the latvian presidency and let me also express our appreciation to the high representative - not only for being during this very long afternoon, almost evening, here with us, but also for the leadership that she is showing in these particular developing issues. i think it's very important, we really appreciate it and we look forward to working with you in the future. thank you. thank you. i would like to end by congratulating the leadership shown by the latvian presidency. let me also express our appreciation to the high representative not only for being here during this very long afternoon it is almost evening now but also for the leadership that she is showing today in these particular development issues. i think it's very important, and we really appreciate it. we look forward to working with the high representative in the future.
mr president, europe is now the world leader in donations, and it should remain so. in fact, more than that, we should invite our partners-friends america, japan and others to participate with us in our goals, which is, as you well said, first of all, to feed the planet. every human being on this planet has the right to food, has the right to life, and i think that we need to lay the foundations for that kind of solidarity in the world today, and frankly, we need to take our interests into account. we often talk here about the problems of immigration in europe and all that it brings, and on the other hand we have mechanisms that we can act to help the countries from which the unhappy people come. so i think europe should remain a leader and invite its partners to participate with it in the very solidarity that has brought europe to the forefront, the top, the biggest donor in the world.
mr president, it is clear that the european union must support the stability of egypt and also support and encourage the further development of the country's democratization process. these two spectra are not contradictory, but complementary. building effective, inclusive institutions, promoting good governance, respecting human rights, fighting corruption must be a priority in cooperation with egypt, especially if we look at it from the european development cooperation policy spectrum. without progress in building the rule of law, it is impossible to effectively combat terrorism and radicalism, which are indeed the main threat to egypt's stability and development at this time. in the short term, the priority must be to ensure the stability of the country, because this is of strategic importance for the european union if we are to prevent the creation of a belt of chaos in the southern mediterranean, from syria to libya, which would most directly threaten the security of our continent. but i also think it is good, that it is necessary to draw attention to the democratic deficits, to the shortcomings in egypt and we will do that, among other things, by voting this resolution.
on behalf of the alde club. mr. president, february 15, 2012 was a truly unfortunate day. a sad day for the families of the indian fishermen killed, but also a sad day for the suspected italian marines. in the light of events on the high seas, it is now clear to all that neither the poor indian fishermen were pirates nor did the suspects think that the small boat was carrying fishermen. the italian marines fought for the interests of italy, for the interests of the italian economy, for europe, and they were convinced that they were doing something for the protection and safety of the vessel, that is, the ship on which they were, and the property they were transporting. a process that takes so long, or rather a process that doesn't exist, is something that we really have to say today that the failure that has occurred is the fact that there is no process and no protocol. we should definitely ask for the return of the marines to italy, the possibility of a court in italy or an international court dealing with this case. i strongly believe that this is a good path, and what the italian government has done so far and what our resolution does in relation to india and the indian people, is an approach by which we show our great solidarity with this great country. finally, i would like to warn you on behalf of the alde club that we have another case of 14 estonian citizens and eight british citizens who are also in india under strange circumstances. please deal with them as well.
written. i support the debate on human rights and democratic principles because these are fundamental european values, and we have seen them frequently violated recently. the violation of human rights and democratic freedoms in russia is not new, but recent events have added to the concern. media content is created according to the orders of the ruling structures, and any deviation from this means exposure to repression. alexei navalny is a journalist who has been critical of the russian authorities and was convicted in controversial circumstances of corruption and money laundering. he was sentenced to house arrest and his blog was banned, and all media outlets that shared his content were suspended. the european union is committed to the development of a common foreign and security policy, including the establishment of a common foreign and security policy, and to the implementation of the un charter. i will support the call on russia to initiate the development of a democratic society and the rule of law with respect for man and his freedom.
madam president, this event has truly caused shock and disgust in everyone, including myself. the pakistani taliban use medieval methods that are absolutely inappropriate today. this is the second time we've spoken about pakistan in this forum -- last time about asia and bibi, today about the school in peshawar. i think it's impermissible that this gets by us. we as politicians have a responsibility and we have to act, we have to help the pakistani government to finally bring democratic institutions to life in that country. we remember here, last year, malala when she was awarded the sakharov prize, we all marveled at that and thought it would be some kind of incentive. unfortunately, it is not. with this resolution, we are trying to sort of point out and condemn not only this heinous act, but also point out the positive things that the pakistani government is doing. in any case, human rights must be respected and blasphemy laws must be repealed. that is what we in the european parliament must insist on.
written. i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution on the annual report on the activities of the european ombudsman during 2013 because i consider that it meets the criteria and standards that contribute to respect for the rights of european citizens and the principle of good administration. i believe that mrs o'reilly has well directed her work towards more efficient and transparent european institutions which are available to citizens in order to increase their confidence in them. the report shows that one of the main problems is the lack of transparency of the institutions, which certainly needs to be countered by providing easier access to information and documents. in this respect, it is important that the reports also contain quantitative data on complaints in order to allow for comparison between the various annual reports. furthermore, i support the fact that in 2013 the ombudsman's office published a new version of the european code of good administrative behaviour and that the report is available in an interactive version.
emily oreilly was elected by the european parliament as european ombudsman on 3 july 2013. the european ombudsman is an independent and impartial body that can hold the european administration to account. the ombudsman conducts inquiries into complaints of maladministration in the eu institutions, bodies, offices and agencies. the investigations opened by the ombudsman's office in 2013 focused on transparency in the eu institutions, ethical issues, citizen participation in eu decision-making, eu-funded projects and programmes, and fundamental rights and service culture. i support this report because transparency, respect for citizens' rights and high ethical standards are the keys to trust between the eu institutions and its citizens, and ms o'reilly's work shows that in 2013 she has indeed improved that relationship and the level of democracy in the union.
written. i support the report by my colleague, mr jaroslaw wales, approving the annual report on the activities of the european ombudsman in 2013 and i join in congratulating ms emily o'reilly on her first annual report since taking office. given that the issue of transparency ranks first in the inquiries concluded by the ombudsman's office (64,3%) and that a significant increase (52,7%) was noted compared to 2012, it can be concluded that transparency is a priority for eu citizens. to strengthen public confidence in the political system and the eu institutions, transparency needs to be made a high priority for all eu institutions, as it continuously strengthens their democratic legitimacy. citizens have recognised the european ombudsman as an impartial and independent body that investigates their complaints about the work of the eu institutions, services and agencies. i believe that the work of the european ombudsman contributes to the establishment of a dialogue that builds citizens' trust and achieves the highest standards of functioning in the institutions. by removing irregularities in the work of officials and preventing mismanagement, we improve the quality of the eu administration. i support the 'meeting 2019' strategy and continued cooperation within the european network of ombudsmen, as i believe it is important to share experiences and best practices and to maintain regular contacts of the european ombudsman with ombudsmen in the member states and accession countries.
written. i consider the ombudsman's work to date to be a demonstration of her willingness to work towards increasing the transparency and openness of the institutions of the european union. the report presented clearly indicates the concrete steps taken to bridge the gap between citizens and institutions, which consequently leads to an increase in the quality of democracy in the european union. the report states that in 2013, 23 245 citizens requested the ombudsman's assistance and the council received 19 418. in 2013, the ombudsman's office also opened 350 inquiries, with the main topics being transparency in the eu institutions, ethical issues, citizen participation in decision-making, but also issues related to projects and programmes funded by the european union. i support the ombudsman in her efforts to increase transparency in the negotiations on the transatlantic trade and investment agreement between the us and the eu. it is an agreement that will affect the lives of the citizens of the european union. it is of great importance to bring the negotiation process closer to the citizens, as the ombudsman has encouraged with her work.
written. i welcome the approval of the annual report, taking into account that the european ombudsman's top priority is to ensure that citizens' rights are fully respected and that the right to good administration reflects the highest standards applied and expected of the union institutions, bodies, offices and agencies. the european ombudsman has a key role to play in helping the european institutions to become more open, efficient and responsive to citizens, in order to strengthen citizens' trust in the union, and in 2013 23 245 citizens requested the ombudsman's assistance. following the instructions on the ombudsman's website as part of an interactive guide, the council received 19 418 citizens. the commission also received a request from the united kingdom to provide information on the implementation of the eu aid volunteers initiative. in 2013, the ombudsman's office took 2354 actions in relation to complaints received. the following main themes can be identified in the inquiries opened by the ombudsman's office in 2013: transparency in the eu institutions, ethical issues, citizen participation in the eu decision-making process, eu-funded projects and programmes, fundamental rights and a culture of service. in the present day, i would like to highlight the importance of social media as a communication channel and encourage the ombudsman's office to use these media more to inform citizens about its activities and promote the rights of eu citizens.
written. i supported the 2013 european ombudsman's work report, which shows positive results on addressing citizens' complaints and responding to queries about their fundamental rights. i consider further efforts to strengthen the position of the european ombudsman to be justified, as they will open up a space for defending the rights of citizens, associations, companies and non-governmental organisations and a space for communication with the european institutions. i find the new strategic steps from the 'towards 2019' programme particularly useful, where under the 'visibility' strategy all important institutional processes will seek to be closer to citizens. the new programme brings about better cooperation with national authorities, in particular with national ombudsmen, in order to make citizens aware of the powers and services provided by the european ombudsman in the eu member states. i hope that the ombudsman will continue to work for the benefit of european citizens and to highlight cases of non-transparency and mismanagement of the institutions and bodies of the european union so that citizens' complaints are dealt with effectively and as quickly as possible.
written. i voted in favour of the resolution on the situation in libya because it strongly condemns the escalation of violence in that country, which has a number of negative consequences, the worst of which is the taking of human lives. the terrorist attacks by extremist organisations and movements that threaten the integrity of the libyan state, but also the security of the entire region and europe, are of concern. i support greater engagement of the european union and the international community in the fight against terrorism in this area, which would ensure respect for international law and stabilise a situation of high uncertainty. i therefore believe that it is necessary to support the democratic process in libya, with political and financial support, in order to preserve the territorial integrity of the state and to prevent the further spread of terrorism.
written. the current situation in libya is caused by deep divisions between extremist groups and forces allied to the libyan government. continued conflict between the two groups and war forced thousands of residents to leave the country and seek a home in one of the neighboring countries or europe. political divisions have also caused a deep economic crisis, which has been further aggravated by the fall in oil prices. the european union should provide strong support to libya in its efforts to achieve a democratic and prosperous future. the strengthening of extremism in any form is a threat to all, and it is therefore important that all actors contribute to the establishment of the rule of law and the development of national dialogue. i support this resolution and hope for a swift resolution for libya and the middle east.
written. i supported the resolution on the situation in libya as the human rights situation is deteriorating across the country, including cases of unjustified detention, unlawful killings, torture, abduction and violence against officials, politicians, journalists and human rights defenders. the state can no longer maintain internal and external peace and territorial integrity, and one of the biggest problems in libya is precisely the influence of various armed groups, which secure their power and influence through weapons and violence. the situation is very dangerous, libya is sinking into chaos, and the country is threatened with collapse. i call on the eu and the international community to continue to support efforts to combat terrorism and prevent its further spread and to establish peace in libya, as well as to provide humanitarian, financial and political assistance, through the geneva talks and the engagement of the special representative, mr bernardin leon. i want to express my appreciation to tunisia for currently hosting some 1.5 million libyan refugees.
written. i am concerned about the situation in libya, which is escalating. the violation of human rights and international humanitarian law does not contribute to the reconciliation process and the further building of neutral libyan institutions. i am of the opinion that the covert interference of regional actors can only lead to the complete disintegration of the state and endanger the stability of the wider mediterranean environment. i therefore call for an end to this destabilising crisis as soon as possible. i believe that the eu should devise and offer a clear and effective strategy to build peace and security while respecting democratic principles. the prolonged violence and destruction will only continue to further devastate already compromised infrastructure. they can cause profound environmental consequences and make it difficult for the earth to recover in the future.
written. - i support all efforts to ensure a free and secure life in libya, but it is clear that there are still many obstacles in the way. i condemn all forms of terrorism and appeal for maximum efforts to be made to raise the level of tolerance and create conditions for peaceful coexistence. the report mentions the activities of islamic terrorist groups and their attacks should be contained to the maximum extent and further armaments stopped. i welcome all activities that promote peace and i agree with the report that we should support all pacifist activities and provide them with moral and financial support. the eu should support institution building and the rule of law in libya and other countries in a similar situation. i express my support for the libyan government in managing its energy resources and we must all work together to help and not to interfere with third parties. i would like to reiterate my concern about the growing fragmentation of society and the humanitarian crisis mentioned in the commission's report. i commend tunisia for hosting libyan refugees and support the provision of professional, moral and financial assistance.
written. i voted in favour of the resolution on the situation in ukraine as i support the commitment of the international community to strengthening economic and political stability and launching key reforms in ukraine. i also believe that there is a need for reforms that will contribute to energy security and to resolving the humanitarian crisis that has hit this country, with the help of the european union and other international organizations. the union's macro-financial assistance should be directed to the implementation of the union's macro-financial assistance. the eu-ukraine association council has adopted a resolution on the situation in ukraine, which calls on the eu to take all necessary measures to ensure that the situation in ukraine is brought under control.
written. after pro-russian separatists took control of large parts of eastern ukraine and russia annexed crimea in early 2014, tensions between russia and the west have increased. the united states, nato and the european union hold russia responsible for separatism, and have imposed sanctions on it. the results of the early parliamentary elections in ukraine are a sign that the country wants to go down the path of european integration. implementation of reforms is a necessary precondition for stabilising the situation. the european union must assist ukraine in every possible way in the peaceful reintegration of the occupied territory as well as in the return of the illegally annexed crimea to the ukrainian constitutional order. i support this resolution and call for an urgent solution to the crisis in ukraine. i strongly condemn the destabilisation of the situation in eastern ukraine by russia and call for the implementation of the minsk agreements.
written. i did not support the resolution on ukraine because i believe it is necessary to point out to russia the possible sanctions that it will face if it continues to violate human rights in ukraine. however, i do not think it is appropriate to insist on further increase of sanctions. the proposed sanctions were intended to force the russian government to change its current policy and to point to the need for a constructive solution to the ukrainian crisis. i consider that to be an ineffective way of resolving the crisis, because full reconciliation of the parties involved requires mutual consensus. a long-term political solution to the crisis is the only way to reconcile the warring parties and strengthen the unity of the country. the resolution also required stricter conditions for the provision of any financial assistance to ukraine in the fight against corruption. ukraine needs stronger support to deal with current problems, including corruption and human rights violations. the european union is a strong pillar of ukraine's efforts to become an independent, democratic, sovereign and territorially integrated country. i believe that the european union can provide ukraine with the necessary assistance and guidance to bring about the necessary reforms as soon as possible and to put an end to the crisis in which it is currently found.
written. i support this resolution on the situation in ukraine, which strongly condemns the aggressive policy of russia, which constitutes a threat to the unity and independence of ukraine, and its military intervention and occupation of part of ukrainian territory. i emphasize that the illegal annexation of crimea is the first case of violent border changes and the annexation of part of the territory of another country in europe after the second world war. we call on the eu institutions to respond strongly and decisively to the crisis in which russia disregards the freedom, democracy, sovereignty and territorial integrity of another country. i would certainly stress that political and diplomatic channels with russia must remain open in order to find a diplomatic solution to the conflict. the european parliament gives its absolute support to the pro-european majority that has been formed, which lays the foundations for a rigorous reform process aimed at fostering further european integration.
written. - i support the statement by the vice-president of the commission on the situation in ukraine and express my concern about the situation in that country. the report supports the ukrainian government in implementing reforms. the eu is committed to the development of democracy, human freedoms, territorial integration and the rule of law in ukraine, and is critical of russia's annexation of crimea, as have other respected international institutions. the eu also supports ukraine's path towards euro-atlantic integration. he is a former deputy chairman of the 'people's council' of the so-called 'donetsk people's republic'. i support the call on the ukrainian leaders to make maximum efforts to root out structural corruption and to support the development of an anti-corruption committee in ukraine. the importance of stability and energy security in the eu's neighbourhood was underlined. the position of the russian energy minister is highlighted, who considers the trilateral agreement between the eu, russia and ukraine on the supply of russian gas to europe non-binding. the eu will do everything to ensure that peace and stability are restored as soon as possible and that ukraine embarks on a democratic path.
written. i voted in favour of the resolution on the situation in egypt, given that this country occupies an important position and role in the middle east and the mediterranean, and is a strategic partner for the european union, with which it has substantial trade relations. i believe it is important to ensure that all citizens are protected, regardless of their affiliation or religion, and that freedom of the press and of expression are fundamental democratic values for which the eu is fighting on a global scale. since there is a longstanding traditional link between egypt and europe, i believe that it is the european union, in order to stabilise this part of the world, that can help the egyptian authorities to strengthen a pluralistic society and to defuse tensions.
egypt is undergoing a long process of political transition following the resignation of long-time president hosni mubarak in february 2011. the egyptian military is currently the main political actor and decision-maker in the country, and it is a worrying fact that a large number of political opponents are sentenced to death. political uncertainty is reflected in the continuous political protests, strikes, and clashes between muslims and christians. i support this resolution and call for dialogue between the opposing sides. it's the only key to progress and to resolving the crisis this country has been going through for many years. stabilization in egypt would be a good example for other countries in the middle east, which is crucial at this time, especially given the dramatic strengthening of terrorist groups in that part of the world.
written. i supported the resolution on the situation in egypt because of the need for support from the international community and to facilitate and facilitate the resolution of political and economic crises and challenges. egypt has embarked on a process of political transformation that has been accompanied by political instability. radical political changes have led to numerous strikes, political protests, and distrust between political parties, and the judiciary has often imposed harsh penalties on political opponents. he was also responsible for the repression of the opposition in the 2014 elections. i believe that cooperation between the european union and egypt is of the utmost importance for the unity and stability of the region and that egypt, with the help of the european union, will regain the strength of democratic institutions that will promote solidarity, respect and protection of human rights and promote social sensitivity and justice. the egyptian authorities have to fully implement international conventions to achieve these objectives. i would like to stress that cooperation between the european union and egypt is essential in the fight against terrorism and that we must jointly ensure accountability for human rights violations and abuses.
the situation in egypt has reached its peak in the violation of basic human rights. it's getting worse by the day. a regime that denies freedom of speech and expression and mismanagement of the state add to an already unenviable situation. the commission has also provided information on the implementation of the eu-egypt joint action on the implementation of the eu-egypt joint action on the implementation of the eu-egypt joint action on the implementation of the eu-egypt joint action on the implementation of the eu-egypt joint action on the implementation of the eu-egypt joint action on the implementation of the eu-egypt joint action on the implementation of the eu-egypt joint action on the implementation of the eu-egypt joint action on the implementation of the eu-egypt joint action on the implementation of the eu-egypt joint action on the implementation of the eu-egypt joint action on the implementation of the eu-egypt joint action on the implementation of the eu-egypt joint action on the implementation of the eu-egypt joint action on the implementation of the eu-egypt joint action on the implementation of the eu-egypt joint action on the implementation of the eu-egypt joint action on the implementation of the eu-egypt joint action on the implementation of the eu-egypt joint action on the implementation of the eu-egypt joint action on the implementation of the eu-egypt joint action. also, regarding freedom of speech, it is important to note that in the last 18 months, about 1,400 protesters have died due to the excessive use of force by the egyptian security forces. in addition, violence against women is escalating, and the same is true of the lgbt community, which is systematically shamed and persecuted. the elimination of the opposition from the political scene, thus opening the way for the unlimited power of the ruling regime, is also a major problem. i sincerely hope that with the efforts and support of the european union, egypt will initiate democratic processes that will guarantee peace and security for its citizens.
written. - i support the report on the situation in egypt and express my concern about the unpleasant events mentioned in the report. in the spirit of european values, i do not support any form of trial of the innocent, political liquidation or suppression of the expression of the people's opinion. the report describes a number of political repressions against dissidents. the report also highlights islamist attacks on christians and expresses support for the building of democratic institutions in egypt, one of the main factors for stability in the region. the eu will continue to be a willing mediator in the various peace negotiations and condemn all forms of terrorism in the strongest terms. we support the egyptian government in promoting respect for human rights and as a promoter of peace in the middle east. it calls for a system of elections that is orderly and transparent and for the abolition of the death penalty. the eu is concerned about the obstruction of the media and the many obstacles to the building of civil society. it once again alludes to the egyptian government's international commitment to respect human rights, the rule of law and the building of civil society and media freedom. i would like to express my hope that the situation in egypt will be corrected as soon as possible and that it will embark on a path of stable development based on a strong civil society and the rule of law.
written. i voted in favour of the resolution on the case of the two italian marines because that case has led to a diplomatic crisis which needs to be resolved in a way that is acceptable to all the families, but also to the italian and indian authorities. i hold that an unfortunate event, which occurred on the high seas, should be brought to an end before an italian or international court. i believe that the human rights of italian marines are very much at risk because after three years, no trial has been initiated before the indian authorities. it is now obvious to all that the dead indian fishermen were not pirates nor did the italian marines realize that they were fishermen but they thought that their lives were threatened by a pirate attack and the tragedy happened by accident. it is well known that the health of the marines has deteriorated considerably in the meantime, and therefore i think that the case should be concluded urgently for the benefit of all concerned, because i am convinced that it is possible.
in 2012, two italian navy men were charged with the murder of two indian fishermen off the coast of the southern indian state of kerala. the italian navy, in their own defense, have said that they have replaced the fishermen with pirates. the incident that occurred has caused a major diplomatic dispute between the two countries. given that the verdict has not been delivered for two years, any further delay could have a negative impact on the eu-india relations, and the case also has an important role to play in the global fight against piracy. i support the resolution to resolve the dispute between india and the european union as soon as possible in accordance with the un convention on the law of the sea and international law.
written. i support the resolution on the case of the two italian marines marò as it concerns the violation of human rights of eu citizens by the indian institutions. in 2012, two indian nationals died in a collision between an italian anti-piracy tanker enrica lexie and an indian fishing vessel st. antony. given that no formal charges have been brought by the indian authorities against the detained italian marines massimiliano la torre and salvatore girone in the last three years, their human rights have been violated and they are being illegally prevented from returning to italy. the commission has also received information from the united kingdom on the use of the vessel by the united kingdom authorities of the vessel's flag and the vessel's crew. in december 2014, eu high representative for foreign affairs and security policy federica mogherini expressed concern about the impact of this case on bilateral relations between the european union and india. in order to prevent further deterioration of relations, the european parliament clearly demands the return of italian marines, eu citizens, to their home country to be prosecuted under italian law, in accordance with international law.
written. i am concerned about the arrest of italian marines, considering that it is a clear violation of fundamental human rights. the marines are being held without charge and denied access to the necessary legal counsel. in addition to violating rights and civil liberties, the lengthy process restricts access to their families as well as the provision of adequate medical assistance. the commission has also received information from the goi and the italian authorities indicating that the goi has not yet taken action against the company. it is imperative that a fair trial be held as soon as possible, to ensure that the marines are treated with respect for their human rights. it is also necessary to put an end to this inhumane situation as soon as possible and to find a solution acceptable to both sides. i supported the resolution because i believe that respect for human rights should be a priority for the european union and i call for a solution to the problem as soon as possible.
written. first of all, i would like to express my deep sorrow at the tragic death of two indian fishermen and my condolences. the consequences of the 15 february 2012 case should certainly be treated strictly in accordance with the rule of law, but also with full respect for the human and legal rights of those involved in the case. i express my deep concern for the italian sailors in detention, and stress that the marines should be returned to their own member country due to the long delays and restrictions on the freedom of movement of the marines which i consider unacceptable and represent a serious violation of their human rights. i recall that the rights and security of eu citizens in third countries should be protected by eu diplomatic representation, which should actively work to defend the fundamental human rights of eu citizens in detention in any third country. i also recall the statements and efforts of the previous high representative catherine ashton and the current high representative federica mogherini in addressing this case. in view of the above, i support this resolution.
written. - i support the passage of the italian marine resolution, because it is a case with many obstacles and a long process of clarifying the facts. italian marines have killed two indian fishermen in the waters of the indian ocean. the marines were escorting the ship under the italian flag, as security in the area of danger from pirates. they thought the fishermen were pirates and acted in good faith, and it was later determined to be an accident. india has requested that the marines be tried in india because the case took place in its territorial sea, while italy has argued that it should be tried in italy because it is an italian-flagged vessel and the case took place in international waters. for nearly three years, italy and india have been negotiating where and under what law the marines should be tried, since under indian law they can be sentenced to death. the case has been marked by numerous political negotiations and disagreements, and the marines are still awaiting a decision on their fate at the italian embassy in new delhi. this resolution would help the two italians and would be a good basis for any future similar cases.
written. i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution on the commission work programme for 2015 because the final text through the amendments of the socialist and democratic club was satisfactory. i regret that no agreement was reached with the other political groups, because the resolution was the best way for the european parliament to tell the commission what it thought of their plan for 2015. by not voting on the resolution, we've somehow shown that we have no opinion, which is a bad political message.
written. i voted in favour of the resolution prepared by the alde political group because it best reflects my view of the future work programme of the juncker commission. i voted against all the other programmes proposed by the other political options because i believe that each of these proposals does not contain a complete and consistent programme as expressed in the document proposed by the alde group.
the european commission is working hard to establish a european fund for strategic investments (efsi). the aim is to mobilise as many private sources of finance as possible to finance riskier investments and investments in smes. the commission shall be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 290 concerning the conditions for the participation of the european investment bank in the work of the european investment bank. the european investment bank will be responsible for the implementation of the european investment bank's (eib) policy on the development of the financial markets. the investment programme aims at economic growth and development of the european union and the creation of new jobs, and for this not only investments but a set of measures related to structural reforms and smart fiscal consolidation are sufficient. the european commission has therefore presented, together with the proposal for a new regulation establishing the efsi, new guidelines on the application of the existing rules of the stability and growth pact in order to strengthen the link between structural reforms, investment and fiscal responsibility in boosting economic growth and job creation. the guidelines have three key objectives: to strengthen the successful implementation of structural reforms, to promote investment, in particular in the context of the new efsi, and to pay more attention to the economic cycle in the member states.
written. the challenge for today's generations is to restore the values on which the european union is founded, solidarity and equal opportunities for all. this challenge is all the more difficult when we consider that the eu has been in the midst of the greatest crisis since its inception, which is most clearly reflected in the unemployment rate, especially among young people. the eu must choose how to grow further and respond to it by planning for a common future and new enlargements or by moving towards a smaller union. there is also the euro crisis, which many in europe believed was over, and unfortunately we are also increasingly facing security challenges and crises. although the proposed programme is not ideal because it largely omits topics such as environmental protection, i strongly support its fundamental determinant, namely the investment plan as one of the fulfilled promises. it remains to be seen what specific investment targets the commission will propose at the end of the month. however, given that the energy sector, transport connectivity and research were mentioned as areas of investment, i think that the potential of this plan is great for croatia too, regardless of which of the 77 submitted projects is accepted, which is why i once again express my support for it.
written. i support the motion for a resolution tabled on behalf of the epp group by mr józsef szájer following the commission's statement on its work programme for 2015. we supported president-elect juncker's team and the new commission's political guidelines, which focus on jobs, growth, equity and democratic change, in his speech. the 2015 work programme is just confirming that 2015 will be a year of great challenges for the european union. i believe that the commission work programme, with its announced €315 billion investment plan, will make a significant contribution to growth and jobs in the member states and thus restore citizens' trust in the eu. i welcome the announced establishment of a new european fund for strategic investments to support long-term investment projects and an ambitious action plan to attract investments to europe that will strengthen the european economy and have a positive impact on the standard of living of citizens. eu citizens rightly expect the institutions to be more open, transparent, accountable, efficient and reduce administrative costs, and to take a new approach and find new solutions to tackle economic and social problems, as the concrete proposals in the commission's 2015 work programme guarantee.
written. i supported the resolution of the green/ees club because as shadow rapporteur for the legislative package on waste management circular economy i am extremely unhappy with its exclusion from the 2015 programme. the commission's programme shows a worrying disregard for the legislative institution of the european union. all political groups supported the retention of the circular economy package, which clearly indicates a broad political consensus to retain it and to implement it through the legislative procedure. as the directly elected representatives of the european citizens, we have a duty to defend their interests. under the previous commission, considerable public funds were invested in developing the legislative proposal for the said package. the exclusion of the package from the work programme inevitably delays the establishment of quality waste management. better management of scarce resources in the european union is the best solution to the current economic crisis. the commission has also taken the necessary steps to ensure that the union's waste management policy is properly implemented.
written. i support the motion for a resolution by mr szájer, on behalf of the european people's party club, on the commission's work programme for 2015, which certainly welcomes the commission's decision to present its work programme for 2015 as soon as possible. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the new regulation to include the areas of the common fisheries policy, the common fisheries policy and the common fisheries policy. i also support the change in the method of preparing for action to avoid spending on outdated or inappropriate legislative proposals that can no longer respond to the priorities and concerns of eu citizens and call for a 25% reduction in the cost of bureaucratic burdens, which contributes to reducing bureaucracy at all levels and for all economic actors and citizens. i agree that rapid progress on the comprehensive transatlantic trade and investment partnership, while respecting all eu standards, is key to unlocking new growth opportunities. i strongly support measures to combat tax fraud and evasion and stress the need for a more efficient use of taxpayers' money.
written. - i support the commission's work programme, because it covers all the important issues such as tackling slow growth, reducing unemployment, increasing the competitiveness of european economies, encouraging investment and so on, and it also highlights the restoration of citizens' trust. the emphasis is on social protection, environmental protection and consumer protection. the need to end the policy of discontinuity was emphasised. the commission will work to reduce bureaucratic obstacles to the development of the single market. exports will be encouraged, and the eu's strength is also important for its neighbourhood. the commission will encourage all member states to achieve maximum economic growth, with emphasis on eco-investment, eco-innovation, fisheries, agriculture, finance and other objectives and the creation of a digital single market without many barriers and constraints. the commission will decide on the future of gmo food. energy security is highlighted as a prerequisite for stability and development, and small and medium-sized economies are highlighted as a symbol of a healthy economy. monetary policy and banking regulation will be implemented in a responsible and development-oriented manner to ensure security and control, and tax policy will work to reduce loopholes and prevent money laundering. the fight against all forms of discrimination and social exclusion, the fight against terrorism and all forms of violence continues with determination. the union's defence and borders will be further strengthened in the face of increasing immigration pressures and illegal immigration.
written. i supported the resolution on freedom of expression in turkey, regarding the recent arrests of journalists, media executives and the systematic pressure on the media. following the arrest of zaman newspaper editor-in-chief ekrem dumanli and samanyolu broadcasting group general manager hidayet karacae, the importance of good neighbourly relations between the european union and turkey, and the need to continue implementing reforms, especially the measures issued in september 2013 aimed at preventing the abuse of the european convention on human rights, are again underlined. i condemn the recent arrests and detentions of journalists and media representatives in turkey, a country in the process of accession negotiations with the european union. in the light of the recent attacks on the editorial offices of the paris newspaper charlie hebdo, i would like to stress the importance of media diversity and freedom of expression. the commission should also be able to provide information on the implementation of the union's macro-financial assistance to third countries, including on the impact of the union's macro-financial assistance on third countries, in particular on the union's macro-financial assistance to third countries.
the resolution on freedom of expression in turkey calls on the european union to promote its standards beyond its borders and thus to persevere in building a tolerant society. the general concern over the lack of democratic reforms, especially by the turkish government's intolerance of public protests and free media, is a simultaneous call to address the priority issue of media freedom and to achieve a legal framework that will guarantee pluralism in line with international standards. the recent police raids and arrests of journalists, attacks on owners and leaders of media groups as well as on internet and social media platforms, are hampering turkey's eu accession process. the media have an important role to play in the establishment of democracy and the promotion of human rights. by engaging in the public sphere, they provide us with access to content of public interest and highlight crucial issues for the purpose of promoting social justice. as essential actors of democracy contributing to the public good, the media should have the right to freedom of expression, which also leads to a free and secure society. the eu accession candidate country must respect human rights and fundamental freedoms as a necessary precondition for progress in implementing the pre-accession strategy and using the funds.
on 14 december 2014, turkish police arrested journalists and media workers ekrem dumanlı, editor-in-chief of zaman newspaper and hidayet karac, editor-in-chief of the samanyolu group's broadcasting. the arrest warrant was issued by a judge in istanbul and states that they are under criminal investigation on suspicion of forming an organization that "through pressure, intimidation and threats attempted to overthrow the state power" by lying and falsifying documents and information. i believe that the turkish government should promote media freedom as a matter of priority and ensure that the legal framework guarantees pluralism in line with international standards. i would remind you of the government's efforts to ban access to social media, restrict access to freedom of expression, and pressure media outlets and journalists. i express my concern about the backsliding in democratic reforms, and particularly the government's decreasing tolerance for public protest and critical media. i would stress the importance of media freedom and respect for democratic values for the eu enlargement process and express my conviction in the need to continue accession negotiations with turkey. therefore, i support the resolution.
written. - i support the adoption of a resolution on the state of the turkish media and freedom of reporting in that country, as pressures on the media in turkey have intensified again. recently, dozens of journalists have been arrested there on false charges, all for reporting contrary to the wishes of the ruling structures. the commission has also provided information on the activities of the turkish authorities in the field of the protection of the rights of journalists and media workers. turkey, as a candidate country for accession, must respect the freedoms and other values of the union and this behaviour by the authorities is completely unacceptable. turkey was an example of a secular state, but the ruling structure wants to stifle such values and create an environment of unity and obedience. it should be noted that turkey is under international investigation for its poor governance and human rights record. according to transparency international (ti), of all countries, turkey has seen the worst of the worst, and the latest developments only reinforce the need for more democracy in turkish politics.
written. i voted in favour of the resolution on freedom of expression in turkey because i consider freedom of expression and media pluralism to be among the core values of the european union. the events in turkey call into question respect for human rights, as freedom of the media and of expression is the foundation of a democratic state. also, in the digital age that the whole world is turning to, i believe that banning access to certain websites and social media, which do not compromise human rights, is unacceptable. this joint resolution reflects the views of all the club representatives and i support it.
in december 2014, turkish police arrested journalists and media executives on charges of forming an organization that would use pressure, threats and intimidation to try to seize power in the country. i support this resolution in order to return turkey as soon as possible to the path of democracy and european values and i strongly condemn this behaviour of the turkish authorities. the principles of democracy must be respected and their implementation must not be compromised in any way, especially in view of turkey's desire to join the european union.
written. we all agree that terrorists know no national boundaries, and recently we have had an attack on fundamental human rights. a swift response is needed and a strong and united response from the european union is expected. to achieve this, solidarity is needed between all the bodies of the european union and also between the member states. we need to respond in a comprehensive, targeted and actionable way, and we can only do that if we build trust with each other. existing measures and laws must be enforced, but new ones must also be introduced, always taking into account both freedom and security. it is not easy, but we have to focus specifically on the passenger name record (pnr). controversial though it is, we need it, but it's just one of the tools at our disposal. this requires good cooperation with europol, eurojust and cooperation and coordination between intelligence services. the security of the external border of the schengen area should be strengthened and all activities coordinated with a clear timeframe. so far, it's been shown that risk assessment is lacking, but so far, it's been done a posteriori, which is not the best method. it is necessary to identify the causes, to establish intercultural dialogue, but also to improve integration policies at the level of local communities. we all have reason to be concerned and we all have a shared responsibility, and a duty to find solutions so that our citizens do not live in fear and that belgian soldiers do not guard us in this parliament building.
madam president, an important lesson for the new investment policy, based on the experience of cohesion policy, which is also investment and development policy, is that all efforts should be directed towards preparing quality projects and strengthening human potential. so what is missing in the european union are projects, but also human potential, and that is what the european commission should focus on. also, the member states that are beneficiaries of cohesion policy have to invest a lot of money to co-finance these projects and i hope that the new investment policy will not replace cohesion policy projects, but will be complementary, and that these countries will be helped in fiscal consolidation not to stop investing, but to strengthen their investment potential.
madam president, this commission will be remembered for having succeeded with this very idea. has this fund, has this plan worked? in this context, our mandate here in this parliament will be marked by success or failure. so i want to express my support for this plan right from the start, convinced that there is no alternative, because i accept criticism and i think we should talk about criticism, but let's also offer alternatives. no one offered an alternative. that's why i support this plan, i expect it to identify a number of projects and above all to make synergy. synergy with the member states that have to participate in this project, but also with the regions and cities, with private capital, with everything that's available. only in this way, through this synergy, can we expect this plan and this fund to succeed.
written. the term 'last chance commission' is unfortunately the political reality of the situation in which the european union finds itself today. the european fund for strategic investments is one of the pillars on which the new european commission is basing its operational plan to recover the european economy, increase employment and, consequently, save the union as we know it. i support this idea for one basic reason, there are no other viable ideas on the table. some people ask: what is cohesion policy for? how is an investment fund different from her? true enough, the goal is the same, but the mechanisms are different. one of the most important differences is the mechanism that allows member states to co-finance projects without increasing the deficit. without it, this fund would be doomed to fail before it even started. the commission has also concluded that the aid is compatible with the internal market within the meaning of article 107 (3) (c) of the treaty. in conclusion, i hope that in five years' time we will be applauding president juncker for the success of the european fund for strategic investments.
mr president, this conference in paris is also extremely important from the point of view of development policy. namely, we have three big conferences this year in 2015. one will be, of course, on development finance, on global finance in addis. then there will be a conference in new york in september on the new sustainable development goals and in paris in december on climate change. it was a great decision by the international community to bring together two different processes, one that was about climate change, and the other to create a new development framework. this synergy is extremely important, it is also extremely important that the european union understands it and that the commission is working on it, and i would therefore like to commend the work of the commissioner who is in constant contact with the commissioner for development and i would like the european union to speak with one voice on both cases.
written. i welcome the further advancement of global climate policy positions and the commitment expressed in lima to reach an ambitious agreement in paris this year. europe has done its part on the global stage at this stage, but it is important that it remains a credible leader in international efforts to combat climate change. i would remind this parliament that the eu's credibility in the context of climate negotiations depends on the ambition of action within the eu and, according to the european commission's announcement, the eu is on track to achieve its 2020 targets. i would also recall the statement made by the commissioner to parliament that we need to make progress on strengthening climate change mitigation ambitions well before 2020 to stay on track to achieve the 'below 2°c' target. one of the first indicators of whether we are moving in the right direction will be a debate on a european energy security strategy. it must include adequately valued measures for energy efficiency and renewable energy production, as this is key to achieving european energy security and independence. if we as the eu advocate and propose an agreement on three binding targets - reducing emissions, increasing energy efficiency and increasing the share of renewable energy sources - then these targets must be consistently and convincingly addressed in the european strategy papers.
written. energy policy should move towards a resilient eu that is competitive, secure and sustainable with far-reaching climate change plans. as policymakers, we can apply the findings of scientific studies and the ipcc reports that have shown that global warming is caused by anthropogenic activity. the key elements of the 2030 ambitious energy and climate policy agenda are: reducing greenhouse gas emissions by 40% below 1990 levels, increasing the share of renewable energy by at least 27% of european energy consumption and increasing energy efficiency by at least 27%. investing in 'green technologies' will reduce greenhouse gas emissions, boost the economy, create new high-tech jobs and strengthen the eu's competitiveness. analyses indicate that 2014 was the warmest year on record in europe, exceeding the record of 2007 by 0.3 c. also, nine of the world's ten warmest years have been recorded since 2000. to keep global warming below 2 oc per century, the development of carbon capture and storage technologies is crucial. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's commitments under the paris agreement and will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's commitments under the paris agreement. therefore, i support the new agreement which will be a major step towards creating a transformed, energy-efficient europe as a leader in the fight against climate change.
mr president, unlike the slovenian minister of agriculture, mr židana, who has already announced a lawsuit against the european union over the dispute over the recognition and use of the teran wine variety, i would like to call on all interested parties to resolve the dispute in a reasonable manner, in the spirit of good neighbourliness and friendship, and above all professionally. the teran is undoubtedly a special type of grape variety that has been cultivated for centuries throughout the geographical area of istria and crassus. for centuries istrian and karst producers have cultivated the grape and produced teran wine, which they enjoy for its exceptional quality. i call on the experts and the manufacturers of off-road vehicles from croatia, slovenia and italy to jointly establish all the relevant expert facts in order to resolve this situation. of course, as an istrian i must say that teran is part of our istrian identity and that we istrians simply cannot give up our teran wine.
mr. president, i speak on behalf of the citizens of croatia who are concerned about the way the government of the republic of croatia is implementing and initiating the process of oil exploration in the adriatic sea. we are aware of the importance of the european union's energy security, but not at the cost of endangering the environment, and not at the cost of endangering thousands of jobs in an economic sector that produces healthy food for the citizens of croatia, but also for the citizens of the european union. the ministry of economy and the hydrocarbons agency avoid fulfilling the obligations under the european union directives. they avoid conducting a quality public consultation with the citizens of the republic of croatia and avoid consultations with other states in the adriatic subregion and thus endanger the public interest of the citizens of croatia, but also prevent the governments of other states from acting in the public interest of their citizens. therefore, i call on the government of the republic of croatia to respect its own laws and enforce them in the public interest.
mr. president, a task force, a commission, that's set up by experts is definitely what we need. i do not accept the thesis that it is not necessary, because it is precisely creativity, intellectual property, but unfortunately it has been spelled out to some extent in legislation and especially in practice is a european problem. we have a single market, but we don't have a complete picture of intellectual property and we don't have a complete picture of copyright and how to protect it. i therefore call for the legal part, on the one hand, and the practical part, on the other, to be made uniform in europe because of our single market. europe's creativity and what we have in europe has always been our, perhaps our greatest, wealth. the creativity and intellect that our artists have, that our producers have, that our creators have is something that almost no one else in the world has. europe has built its economy on this and i think it should continue to build on this.
mr. president, we need this special forum, the internet governance forum, we need an extension of the mandate, not just for a year. we are in favour of extending the mandate of this forum, because we think that this is a more correct and efficient way of working this forum. what i want to emphasize, of course, are all the principles that we've heard here today, freedom, human rights, all the things that the internet carries. but the internet today is no longer just a product or a service. the internet is life. today we spend hours and hours on the internet. unfortunately, less with loved ones, more with the internet. unfortunately, less in the nice spaces, more with the internet. that's why i said last time, we need a new philosophy around the internet and i propose that we seriously discuss the fifth freedom of the european union, the digital freedom of the european union that will incorporate all the principles we have talked about, but also all the dangers that the internet brings.
mr president, it is only a matter of time before all labels will clearly state whether the meat is from cloned animals, whether the meat has been fed gmos and, of course, which country it comes from. if we know today on the label how much sodium is in the meat or how many calories, which i don't read much of that detail, but how many calories are in a piece of salami or something else, then i think it's clear that these labels should be very clear about whether the meat is from cloned animals, whether it's from gmos, what country of origin, etc. i come from croatia, and i know that we import meat from bosnia and herzegovina, serbia and other countries that are not members of the european union, and of course that's something that our consumers want to know. so i'm inclined to those who advocate the need for labels to be clearly labeled, because that's what consumers expect from us.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the question of labelling meat concerns each and every one of us. after major meat scandals and fraud, there was a need for a legal solution that would make such cases impossible or at least difficult. that is why we need to send a clear signal to the european commission to propose new regulations. a declaration that does not include details of the origin of the meat is simply unfair to consumers and opens the door to fraud. such a situation can be resolved relatively easily and without great cost to the producer. besides, if we're talking about cost, i think consumer confidence is just priceless. furthermore, labelling the country of origin of meat will make it easier for national authorities to combat food fraud and to punish the perpetrators. i think this is in the interest of european consumers, because as mentioned earlier, 90% of them want to know where the meat they eat comes from. the european union's single market opens up a wide range of choices for consumers and producers, but it also sometimes opens up loopholes for unscrupulous speculators to exploit. such loopholes should be closed and health and consumer rights further protected.
mr president, depending on the member state and the way in which the internal market for foodstuffs is regulated, as well as the confidence of customers in what they find on the shelves of their shops every day, consumers' opinions differ when it comes to the indication of the origin of meat used as an ingredient in food. unlike some member states, we in croatia have had very negative experiences with frozen meat coming from imports on our market that are already several years old, so i welcome the recent entry into force of the new regulation on food information to consumers. when it comes to processed products containing meat, i sometimes shudder to think of all the stuff that comes onto our plates, even from some of the european union members. i support the labelling of the country of origin of meat used as an ingredient in food. i personally feel that consumers should be given full information about the food they are buying. the commission has also proposed that the member states should be able to apply the principle of proportionality to the labelling of meat products. so i'm advocating traceability of ingredients in the food chain, which would reduce the scope for unfair trade practices, but also obviously legal games.
mr. president, regulating any industry is very delicate and requires special caution. unfortunately, too often the legislator introduces new rules under pressure from interest groups, whereas i believe that our task is to find a balance between industry and the consumer so that the final consumer is as informed and protected as possible, and industrial production remains sustainable and profitable. the recent horse meat scandal has exposed the shortcomings of existing regulations and has focused public attention on the meat industry. while i believe that we should not overregulate and thus increase the cost of production and harm the industry, i believe that restoring consumer confidence in the meat industry would also benefit meat producers. i therefore hope that all future proposals will maximise the protection of the european consumer, but also save the industry from excessive additional costs.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, standardization, joint production and joint procurement of military equipment would mean reducing costs and strengthening the defence of europe as a whole and of each of its countries individually. in 2008, the european defence agency set targets for joint procurement and joint investment in research and technology. however, since 2008, not only have these targets not been met, but the share of both joint procurement and exploration has fallen. joint procurement from 21% to 15% and joint investment in research and technology from 16% to 10%. in the modern world, with so many hotbeds of crisis and conflict on our external borders, these are truly worrying figures, and i therefore call on the european parliament, the council of the european union and the european commission to find urgent solutions to improve european defence cooperation.
mr president, the international court of justice in the hague last week delivered a judgment on the croatian lawsuit against serbia, which clearly confirms that croatia has pursued a criminal policy on the territory of croatia and that the war in croatia was provoked from belgrade and was an instrument of belgrade's policy to achieve a greater serbia, and that belgrade is responsible for crimes against humanity committed on the territory of croatia. if the court did not find that it was genocide, it does not mean that it did not find that crimes were taking place, that serbia has responsibility for what happened in croatia. unfortunately, various ngos in both serbia and croatia are trying to relativize the verdict and the crimes and spread the thesis that no one is guilty. this judgment is very clear and in paragraph 246 it clearly states that the court agrees with the icty's conclusions about serbia's involvement against humanity in croatia. vukovar, škabrnja, dubrovnik and places where civilians were tortured and killed and even cultural monuments protected by unesco were destroyed, were not recognized by the court as places of implementation of the policy of destruction, but therefore once again confirmed the legitimacy of the military-military action of the storm, which forever abolished krajina and ensured the end of the war in croatia, but also in bosnia and herzegovina. the past is a burden that the serbian authorities will have to face if they want to become part of the european family. i am referring to the search for missing persons, the opening of the archives of the former yugoslavia and the yugoslav people's army, the return of stolen art, the border on the danube, the rights of national minorities, but also the abolition of the controversial law on universal jurisdiction for war crimes in the territory of the former yugoslavia.
madam president, thank you, mrs. mussolini, i would like to ask you if you are aware that today istria is bilingual, that it is thanks to me, personally thanks to me, and thanks to those who of course supported this policy, that today bilingualism is croatian-italian... (the president interrupted the speaker)
madam president, we expect the commission to try to balance what can be done between employers and workers in this tense situation, but what must be our minimum is really what has been achieved. we have the right to strike in europe, we have collective bargaining and to go below what we have achieved today - regardless of globalisation, regardless of the problems in our textile industry, the steel industry, in other industries that are due to global conditions today in a serious crisis - we still cannot allow to go below what we have achieved. so as a liberal, i want to stand firmly behind what workers' rights are and what europe today has as a model for the rest of the world.
the question he raised by raising his blue card. madam president, mrs morin-chartier, first of all i would like to thank you for this explanation. however, since you are coming from france, since your previous colleague briois was just talking about mobility at full (interruption due to technical problem.) so i want to ask mrs morin-chartier about mobility. as we are committed to mobility as one of the main principles and foundations of the european union, and particularly when it comes to the mobility of young people, i would like you to clarify that your colleague from france, mr briois, who spoke before you, said the exact opposite of what you said. i am interested in the french delegation's position, do you think that mobility is something that is bad or do you think that youth mobility is what will help us implement this, not a youth guarantee, but an employment initiative?
mr president, youth unemployment is a serious socioeconomic problem in some member states. i do not think we can solve it simply by allocating more budgetary resources to youth initiatives, because in the member states where it is most manifest, it is primarily a structural problem. we must insist on comprehensive reforms that would allow young people to be educated in the spirit of entrepreneurship and to go about their projects with minimal government subsidies and no administrative burden. otherwise, we risk the quality ideas of europe's young people never reaching the market and their knowledge and enthusiasm remaining untapped, which would be a huge loss for this community. i also think that better linking the public education system with the private sector is particularly important because i don't see a more effective way to respond to the fluctuating needs of the labour market.
mr president, dear mrs thyssen, thank you for these initiatives that you have come up with, since i'm sure you are familiar with the youth problem and that this subject really interests you, but the numbers are really alarming. 5 million young people in the european union are not working, in some countries 50%. unfortunately, my country, croatia, is at the very top of those percentages where a very large number of young people are not working. also, 7.5 million young people between the ages of 15 and 24 are outside of any system, of any education or learning, of any kind of empowerment. it creates great social problems and that's why i don't like it when people use the term lost generation. unfortunately, it could become a lost generation if we older people don't all do something together. i think we should do everything to give young people dignity, and dignity will be given to them if they get their first job. i think this is very important and i believe that this billion which you and mr dombrovskis have set aside together, since you understand the problem, will be essential to help the member states to launch their operational programmes and that youth employment really will no longer be such a bitter and urgent issue.
written. the message to member states from the very beginning of the youth employment initiative is clear: a rapid response and concrete measures aimed at integrating young people into the labour market are needed. the deadlines for implementing this initiative differ from all other programmes. the funds are to be contracted by the end of 2015 and the activities carried out and the funds disbursed by the end of 2017, at the latest in 2018. in order to accelerate member states and encourage them to act urgently, the commission has made it possible to finance the cost of youth employment since september 2013. it is now february 2015 and instead of the first payments to member states under the payment claims based on the activities carried out, the european commission has had to come up with a new incentive for faster implementation, namely an increased amount of the advance to as much as 30%. i welcome this decision by the european commission, but we must all understand that it is precisely the decision and the debate in the european parliament on the increased appropriation in 2015 that shows that we have failed when it comes to young people. we must speed up and at least those measures for which the funds are available now, and which are intended exclusively for the employment of young people, must be implemented as planned, now, not in 2023. it's too late for the young.
written. i welcome the decision of the european commission to make available €1 billion from the youth employment initiative budget this year. this will increase by up to 30 times the pre-financing received by member states to encourage the employment of young people. the commission should also be able to provide information on the implementation of the union's macro-financial assistance to the countries of central and eastern europe, in particular the countries of the former soviet union, the former yugoslav republic of macedonia, the former yugoslav republic of macedonia and the former yugoslav republic of macedonia. the commission should also be able to provide information on the impact of the measures taken on the labour market and on the labour market in general, in particular on the impact of the measures taken on the labour market in particular on the labour market in general and on the labour market in particular. work experience is key for employers, but they are reluctant to provide it themselves, leading to long-term unemployment among young people, because without work experience they cannot find a job, and at the same time they have nowhere to go to get one. the european commission is sending a clear signal with this decision that youth unemployment is its priority and that it wants to support member states' activities to put young people back into work or education, or to include them in training programmes. the commission should also be able to use the appropriations entered in this article to finance the expenditure incurred by the member states in implementing the union's macro-financial assistance.
written. there are many reasons why young people are in such a disadvantaged situation: the economic crisis, the lack of alignment of the education system with the needs of the labour market, the insufficient social sensitivity of employers. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the employment strategy and the employment strategy, and will continue to monitor the implementation of the employment strategy and the employment strategy. this is particularly true in the member states most affected by the crisis, where youth unemployment rates are also the highest. but there are some positive developments. for example, in croatia, in the last eight months, there has been a certain shift, so that unemployment among young people between 15 and 25 years of age has decreased by 8%. this demonstrates that active employment policy measures are delivering results. it is pleased to see this acknowledged by the commission, which has improved the original proposal and increased the funding significantly. however, the commission's measures are not a permanent solution. we need to change the problems structurally from the ground up. everything possible should be done to prevent our most educated generation from becoming the lost generation.
mr. president, colleague ulvsky has asked some very high-quality questions. i will personally support any well-designed model that is based on a voluntary basis and a strictly legally regulated relationship between employer and employee. i believe that the voluntary financial investment of employees in a company is a quality bond between employers and employees, because it creates a lasting relationship of financial interdependence. the new relationship would motivate workers through involvement in the management process and financial rewards for good business, while employers would be more inclined to invest in workers in the long term, especially in the sphere of education and training, due to the new nature of the relationship in the company. in addition to being based on voluntary principles, transparency and quality information for workers, such a model should also be strictly defined by law. i believe that the legal instability of certain member states will be the main obstacle to the uniform application of this model at union level. this is another reason why i think the house's desire to have decisions on employee financial participation made at company level is extremely positive. whereas the role of the state should be, first and foremost, to adopt an effective model, to ensure the rule of law and to protect the right of employers and employees to choose for themselves whether or not to apply such a model in their companies. (the speaker agreed to answer the question 'blue card' (article 162 (8) of the regulation)).
the question he raised by raising his blue card. mr. president, mrs. tomašić, i assume you agree with me that privatization in the 1990s devastated the croatian economy and destroyed many companies. but i don't know if you agree with me that privatization has allowed small shareholders to become owners of those companies, for example adris group from rovinj, which have shown vitality and become exemplary, strong and good croatian companies, whereby this financial interest of the employee is given full expression. i'd like to know what you think about that.
answer the question posed by raising the blue card. mr. jakovčić, i think privatization destroyed all post-communist countries, because the same people who were in power in communism, came to power again. and as for the adris group, we need more discipline, oversight and a little more management oversight and aid and concessions to the workers.
mr president, those of us who come from slovenia or croatia know what self-management means in companies. it was a yugoslav experiment that, of course, failed because it didn't have the financial interest of the employees embedded in that system. namely, there was employee interest in the firm, but there was no financial interest. so, after that, there was privatization of companies and i know good examples in slovenia, as my colleague bogovic spoke, and which i mentioned, in which state-owned companies were privatized so that small shareholders and employees became owners of these companies. i don't know of any examples where these companies have failed -- in fact, i know of very profitable companies, and i think that experience is very interesting for what we're talking about today. that is why i wanted to draw your attention to these experiences, commissioner, and of course to express my support for your intentions, because i think they are extremely good for the workers and employees in companies.
madam president, i would certainly like to join in this debate and support this directive and thank mrs sender, the rapporteur. on the one hand we are fighting for population growth and talking about how we need to take measures for employment and everything else, and at the same time it happens that 20,000 people lose their lives on the roads of europe. i think it is unacceptable and will soon be a thing of the past that you can go on holiday in one country and then come home and get away with it without identifying the offender. i think this directive is timely and it's right that the 28 systems should be united. i hope they'll accept the uk, denmark and ireland and we'll even the systems. in any case, this directive could, according to some indicators, reduce the number of road fatalities on our european roads by 50% by 2020, and i believe that this should be supported in any case. however, it is clear that cooperation between our bodies, the commission and parliament, is good cooperation, but cooperation between the member states will have to take place, and that is what we are striving for, not only in the field of road safety but also in all other areas. that's what our basic european idea is really about. however, measures and sanctions alone will not help. there certainly need to be better roads, better infrastructure, better cars, and of course all of these measures will make it possible for us all to work together to improve road safety. anyway, the state lines are no longer an obstacle, and that's what you want to say. thank you, mrs. bulc, for this suggestion.
madam president, i would like to begin by expressing my support for these efforts and thanking the rapporteur. what i want to mention specifically, which others have not mentioned here, is the question of relations with our candidate countries and potential candidates and with switzerland. i know you're in the big business of unifying 28 countries. however, i would like to stress in particular that i think it is very important to try to start talks with switzerland and serbia and bosnia and herzegovina, because they are definitely transit countries. i have nothing to brag about, but i was photographed twice in lucerne driving 90 km/h instead of 80 km/h and i never got a ticket. it's not to brag about, but it's true. so i think it would be good to see how to include these countries, and especially the countries in the balkans which are often as we know transit countries where many eu citizens come from, from bulgaria, greece, romania and of course i expect those countries to be included.
vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs. – madam president, let me thank you for this exchange of views today regarding the situation in the democratic republic of congo. as you know, the european union has been a strong and consistent partner to the democratic republic of congo (drc) over the last 15 years. in 2006 it provided the bulk of financing for the organisation of the first democratic elections in the history of congo and the drc has been one of our top priorities in africa over the past decades. this includes two military operations and a sustained effort to support security sector reform with two csdp missions, as well as more traditional areas of cooperation such as health, roads and natural resources management. today i think that many of you are especially concerned about the delays and uncertainties surrounding the electoral process, which includes the holding of local elections in 2015 and the legislative and presidential elections in 2016 at the latest. the recent debate over the passing of a new electoral law has led to violent popular protests calling for constitutional timelines to be respected, and to two casualties. during this difficult time we called on all political forces to seek a consensus to facilitate an appeasement of the situation, and we asked the government in particular to exercise constraint, to maintain an open political space and allow for the peaceful expression of opinion. the prerequisite of organising a general consensus before the legislative and presidential elections has now been dropped. this opens the door to organising the elections within the constitutional timeframe. this is a very positive step which i welcome and i know too that some of you expressed opinions on the same lines. but respect for the constitution goes further than respecting timelines. freedoms of speech and of the media, the right of peaceful assembly, respect for the rights of the opposition are all essential components of a democracy. these critical elements will be part of our dialogue with the congolese government, with the objective of reducing tensions in the political climate. i am very much aware of, and i share, the concerns of this parliament regarding the situation of dr denis mukwege and the panzi hospital. let me say too that i was honoured, personally, to sit in this very same room, listening to his inspiring and dramatic words last november on the occasion of the sakharov prize. i was also honoured to have on that occasion a very good meeting with him, looking for ways of cooperating on concrete projects. i wish to confirm to you that the european union is following with great vigilance the situation concerning his physical security as a human rights defender. i have also asked my representative in kinshasa to enquire about the dispute between the congolese administration and the panzi hospital. i strongly support an amicable agreement between the panzi hospital and the congolese administration. the holding of democratic elections leading to a peaceful transition of power will be key to longer-term stability in the drc and in the wider region. stability will also depend on other factors, in particular the neutralisation of all armed groups in eastern congo. there has been some significant progress in this respect thanks to the efforts of the congolese army and monusco. nevertheless, important challenges remain: for example regarding the ex-m23 movement. the governments of the drc, uganda and rwanda should strengthen their collaboration to achieve a durable disarmament, demobilisation and reintegration of ex-combatants and their dependents. the fdlr rebel group remains a major threat to long-term stability in the region. linked with the rwanda 1994 genocide ideology, this group has inflicted immense human suffering and has spoiled drc–rwanda relations. with the support of the united nations, there is now a unique opportunity to address one of the root causes of conflicts in the kivus. the fdlr movement has been given plenty of time by countries in the region to surrender peacefully. we discussed this in the foreign affairs council in january and we adopted 28 council conclusions where we stated that the time has now come for military operations. however we stress too that we invite monusco and fardc to ensure civilians are fully protected and that international humanitarian law is respected during the operations. let me reiterate our support for the un involvement in promoting peace and stability. this includes the sustained efforts of monusco and troop-contributing countries as well as the personal efforts of the un special envoy for the great lakes region. let me also stress that i know, and i share, your desire to curb the links between conflict and exploitation of natural resources in the great lakes region. as part of its comprehensive approach the european union has started to address the situation. together with the commission, as you might very well know, my predecessor issued a joint communication on responsible sourcing of conflict minerals. and parliament and the council are currently examining right now the draft regulations that went together with this communication. finally, i would like to mention the european union’s long-term commitment in the drc to supporting the preservation of congolese national parks. this includes virunga park, which is part of the unesco world heritage sites. the future of this park is threatened by permits being granted for oil exploration that could lead to oil exploitation in the future. let me ensure you that we will continue to keep a close eye on national decisions that might impact on the sustainability of this park. to conclude, i would just like to share with you the information that i have mandated mr vervaeke, the eu senior coordinator for the great lakes region, to join a mission of special envoys that will go to kinshasa in the coming weeks to assess the situation and obviously report back. i thank you for your attention and i look forward to the debate and listening to your speeches today.
on behalf of the ppe club. madam president, indeed, the problems in the democratic republic of congo are many. madam high representative, you have listed some problems, such as the problem of mineral exploitation, the illegal financing of armed groups, the problem of the systematic rape of women - as dr mukwege has testified here in this house - and, of course, the problem of selective justice, which has led to the closure of dr mukwege's hospital after he had criticised the authorities. but the causes of all these problems can be found in inefficient institutions, in undemocratic institutions, in the lack of rule of law, in high rates of corruption. protesters in kinshasa have risen mainly because an amendment to the electoral law was announced that would then require a census to be carried out in the country before the next election is called. and it was clear that this announced electoral reform was an attempt to perpetuate the power of the current president kabila. that's why it's extremely important to affirm and democratize the processes in the country, and of course refocus our development cooperation policies so that they can actually boost the building of inclusive democratic institutions. in this respect, i think that additional efforts are needed both from the development policy perspective and from the overall foreign policy perspective of the european union, and that should be one of the main messages from this debate. in closing, i would also like to add that even though we have the authoritarian rule of president kabila today, before him his father, before him mobutu, the same paradigm of corruption remains that is the very source of these problems. in fact, by building these inclusive institutions, we have to confront these causes and change them.
mr president, the democratic republic of the congo is a particularly important african country for europe. not in the light of what i heard a colleague say before that this is just a country of king leopold of belgium -- that's not the way we should talk. we need to talk in a way that today in this democratic congo we really want to achieve all those goals that the congolese people have the right to achieve. we must have a consistent policy. if we have given mr. mukwege a prestigious award, we must pursue a consistent policy. otherwise we will lose the credibility of this parliament and the european union as a whole in the congo and elsewhere. so i appeal to the high commissioner and to our policy to resolve this situation in the congo through democratic means, through new elections and in this way we can really see who has the confidence of the congolese people and i think that is the only correct solution.
mr president, according to the data from the brussels office of the united nations relief and works agency for palestine refugees, which has been sent to all members of the european parliament, the european union should soon pay eur 82 million to the account of this un agency. last year, echo also paid an additional €5 million for emergency aid to gaza following the armed conflict in the otherwise extremely difficult humanitarian situation. despite these donations, unrwa, according to a report we received from the same brussels office, is running a budget deficit of more than 71 million euros. it should also be noted that in addition to the situation in gaza, some 470 000 palestinians have refugee status in syria, and as many as 95% of them are in need of humanitarian assistance. it is therefore important that we send a message of support from the european parliament today to the competent authorities of the european union, first and foremost to echo, which is currently in talks with unrwa about further financial assistance to this un agency. the palestinian refugee problem cannot be solved without a political solution, and this parliament has already spoken about what that should look like. but organizations like hamas still do not recognize israel's right to exist, and our message today must also be that we care about the security of israeli citizens. so it's fair to conclude that alongside humanitarian aid to gaza, we need to increase our focus on our long-term development policies, on the process of building democratic and inclusive institutions. (the speaker agreed to answer the question by raising the blue card on the basis of rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure.)
the question he raised by raising his blue card. mr. president, mr. stier, i share your concern about the refugee situation and all that's going on between israel and palestine, but my question is do you think and do you hold that the only correct solution is two independent states, that is, palestine and israel, and that in the long run that is the only correct solution? i'd like to know what you think about that.
answer the question posed by raising the blue card. mr. jakovcic, a solution that will go along with the establishment of two states is the only stable solution. the palestinian people have a right to their state, but israel has a right to its existence as a state. at the same time, as an advisor on foreign policy to the former croatian prime minister, i organized the first visit of the prime minister of the republic of croatia to the palestinian authority, and that was our message: support for the palestinian people to establish their state, but also that they must recognize israel's right to exist.
mr president, i support the view that we in europe must defend the principle of territorial integrity as a prerequisite for maintaining order, peace and security among states. but how to defend that principle when it's directly threatened by war, aggression, appetite for another's territory. on the one hand, the us administration argues that a decision to provide military aid to ukraine could prevent further russian incursions into ukrainian territory, and on the other hand, much of european politics firmly rejects arming ukraine as a means to end the conflict. in my view, the common objective of the united states and the european union should be to further raise the costs of russia's war against ukraine, while maintaining a joint approach to future sanctions imposition or withdrawal. it should be recalled that ukraine held the presidency of the osce just a year ago and is now embroiled in a conflict with a permanent member of the security council, with potentially far-reaching consequences for the entire world. it just proves that the global security system of 1944 is ripe for a complete reform or at least for one like that of 1975.
mr president, high representative mogherini, mr vimont, i believe that the efforts of chancellor merkel and president hollande are part, as you told us at the last meeting when we spoke here a month ago, of a comprehensive approach of european foreign policy in resolving the crisis in ukraine. so it seems to me that today we must say clearly that we are indeed for a peaceful solution, for the territorial integrity of ukraine, including the illegal annexation of crimea, that we give ukraine the right to self-defence because it is allowed by the un charter, and that we want the continuation of the restrictive measures against russia. because it is clear that only by combining all these measures of our policy can we lead to de-escalation of the situation, to respecting the minsk ceasefire, and i hope that tomorrow's meeting in minsk, combined with the "normandy format", will also give a qualitative step forward. because what we have seen in the past weeks, what we have seen in mariupol, what we have seen in donetsk, what we have seen in debaltseve, what we have seen today in krematory, is a disaster. a disaster for ukraine, a disaster for the ukrainian people and a disaster for the european union. in that sense, i also call russia to account. russia is a global player, a nuclear power. where is russia going with this policy? it reminds me a little of that line: where there's one russian, there's russia. it can't be. you have to respect other countries' borders, their ambitions, their orientation. if ukraine can't go the way its people chose, its government in democratic elections, then that's not good, then all of russia's neighbors are in trouble. and it is the additional responsibility of all of us, that here and through the mechanisms we have in implementing the association agreement, in supporting the supreme work by parliament to work on european reforms in the years ahead, to bring it closer to the european project, that is our basic task. (the speaker agreed to answer the question by raising the blue card on the basis of rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure.)
answer the question posed by raising the blue card. - mr president, we saw the debate that took place in the council of europe just a few weeks ago. as you know, the parliamentary assembly also passed a resolution, an important resolution on the rights, or the denial of rights, of the russian delegation, and in the council of europe's procedures on how judges of the european court of human rights are elected, we will leave it to our neighboring organization.
the question he raised by raising his blue card. mr president, mr plenkovic, i would like to ask you if what is happening in ukraine reminds you of what was happening in the balkans, in croatia? and secondly, do you still think that a solution can be found in a way, as you once said, inspired by the peaceful reintegration of the croatian danube? do you still stand by those words?
answer the question posed by raising the blue card. mr president, thank you, mr jakovčić, i have repeatedly warned in the past few months about the parallels between ukraine as a victim in relation to russia and croatia as a victim in relation to serbia. however, the circumstances are not entirely the same. you can't compare the milosevic regime in serbia to the global player russia is today. i think that first of all now we must do everything for a peaceful solution, and use our experience in the peaceful reintegration of the croatian donbas for the peaceful reintegration of parts of the lugansk and donetsk regions, and of crimea later into the constitutional-legal order of ukraine.
mr. president, i join with those colleagues who have been here all along talking about how we need a resolution. i think that this european parliament has shown, once again, that we are thinking together on this issue and that we are aware of the dangers of nuclear weapons. not just because we think that some countries might use this against democracy and against everything we stand for, but primarily because the whole world would be in question. that is why i want to stress that we need a resolution, especially when i have heard all those principles that mrs mogherini is talking about, which are disarmament, reduction of stocks, effective reduction of stocks. let's at least get something done. let's at least get a ban on nuclear testing. i think it's something we owe to this planet, and at least that's how we end this audit conference.
mr president, i too welcome the report by mr goerens on the work of the acp-eu parliamentary assembly. this interparliamentary assembly offers a unique opportunity for a comprehensive democratic dialogue between members of the european parliament and acp parliamentarians. and i agree with the rapporteur that this assembly can and should serve as a forum where we can discuss in an honest and open way sometimes difficult or controversial topics. one of these themes is the universality of human rights, the right to the dignity of every person, regardless of race, religion, nationality or sexual orientation. it is precisely because of the latter that some members, especially from africa, consider that our european position is sometimes the basis for a new european cultural imperialism. that's a conclusion i think we all share here that he's guilty, but we need to continue to work on dialogue with our colleagues in africa. of course, not by emphasizing positions that are not universally accepted, sometimes even within the european union, but by insisting that human rights, precisely because they are based on natural law, apply to all people. perhaps this one approach will help us achieve a better understanding with our colleagues from africa, the caribbean and the pacific, on controversial issues. in the end, i would also join the criticism of the absence of the council representatives. my colleague goerens said that if the akp did not exist, it should be invented. it may need to be modernized or changed, but while it exists, it must be respected.
madam president, the acp-eu parliamentary assembly is a really good mechanism for dialogue. we all know very well which countries we are working with within that assembly and we also know very well that there is simply no alternative to dialogue. so i want to support all those who have spoken here in favour of this forum which should definitely deal with the issues of security, the issues of economic development and all those issues that mr gorentz and mr mimica have spoken about. i am convinced that this is a good way in which our commissioner mimica makes sure that all those countries which are so important to us in our cooperation and often in a situation where we talk about them in a different way, not as we do today. i think it is a good path which mr gorentz has also set out in some way in his report and i believe it is a successful cooperation for the european union.
madam president, female genital mutilation has been inflicted on approximately 140 million women and girls worldwide. we've heard as many as 500,000 within the european union. and while the motives for female genital mutilation are often cultural, the right to culture must be limited if it is at the expense of other human rights, which is indisputable in the case of female genital mutilation. female genital mutilation therefore constitutes a violation of the rights to liberty, security, dignity, the right of women and girls to health, the right to freedom from torture and, in cases where the consequence of the mutilation is death, of course, the fundamental right to life. all these rights, and especially the right to life, from which all the other rights mentioned derive, must be protected and safeguarded if we are to wage a real fight against such harmful traditional practices practiced in certain countries. genital mutilation is now practiced in at least 28 countries in africa, the middle east, asia -- all of them recipients of international development aid -- and so we must use our development policy as a tool to fight against the mutilation of women and girls, just as development policy should be used to fight against all other violations of basic human rights. so, as a member of the development committee, i would like to ask the commissioner to what extent she is cooperating with commissioner mimic on this issue.
madam president, genital mutilation, most commonly in girls at a very early age, is a deliberately induced suffering with very serious consequences. the immediate extreme pain and shock of mutilation, infection and complications of wound healing, complications of pregnancy and childbirth, and frequent deaths are just some of the consequences of this brutal and inhuman act. the practice of female genital mutilation seriously offends the dignity and lives of women worldwide and, as it is mainly carried out on girls, is a gross violation of human and children's rights. i am concerned because because of flawed laws and inadequate enforcement measures, girls are being mutilated in our countries within the borders of the european union or taken to their parents' home countries. ways should be found to ensure that girls who are victims of genital mutilation do not become victims a second time when they are left without parental care following the prosecution of their parents.
madam president, as a human being and a doctor, i am appalled by this practice. i am calling for effective and rapid measures to combat this particularly appalling form of violation of women's rights. first of all, i am thinking of an effective criminalisation of such activities, respecting the principle of extraterritoriality. half a million victims of genital mutilation live in the european union as stated, and only 41 cases of this kind have been recorded in courts in 11 member states. it is truly a disgrace to european society. also, we can't fight a problem we don't know about. there is a need to establish a single record of all aspects of genital mutilation and to educate the personnel involved. in particular, asylum applications should be expedited for victims of mutilation and those in immediate danger. the strategy adopted by the european commission is insufficient, as it does not set clear deadlines. what remains is a long list of good wishes, and not in economic terms, as the commission likes to emphasise, but in human lives.
mr president, i am absolutely in favour of the adoption of a strict legislative framework to end the application of this torturous practice on the territory of the member states of the european union. but i am aware in advance that we will have a problem with the best possible legislation, and that problem is practical application. it will require great determination on the part of member states, many of which are currently fighting the practice in their territories without success. the elimination of female genital mutilation in the european union as a public health policy should not be an isolated measure but part of a wider policy to integrate minority groups into european societies. we must not forget that the very problem of adapting to the integration of these groups is the reason why they very often prefer the customs of their country of origin to the laws of their new homeland. here, member states will finally have to draw a line and make it clear that despite the cultural and religious heterogeneity of modern europe, no one is above the law.
madam president, if you ask the children, except in cases of severe abuse, children want both parents, children need both a father and a mother, and if the parents have the best interests of the child at heart, regardless of the divorce, they will agree to custody of the child. parents are simply expected to be parents, and we know that this is not always the case, as evidenced by the cases at the european union level, which are some 3,000 cases where one parent has taken a child to another country without the consent of the other parent. in such circumstances, the child is exposed to a number of mental and physical dangers, which makes such kidnapping qualify as child abuse. the primary international instrument designed to protect children from the harmful effects of their unlawful removal or retention across borders is the hague convention of 25 october 1980 on the civil aspects of international child abduction. including croatia, this multilateral agreement currently has 93 co-signatories, a number that is sure to grow thanks to improved cooperation within international structures and over time. by establishing a european parliament intermediary who became a lady in 2014, we have already shown that the european parliament makes a major contribution to the prevention of international kidnappings. however, i believe that the number of abducted children could be further reduced if we increase the number of countries that have signed up to the convention and thus ensure the legal and health welfare of every child.
madam president, i welcome the accession of albania, andorra, armenia, the russian federation, singapore, morocco, gabon and the seychelles to the hague convention on the civil aspects of international child abduction. while the extension of the existing system is desirable, i believe that the union must first of all work on its qualitative aspects, given the nature of its competences. the courts of the state in which the child is forcibly removed cannot decide on the substance of the proceedings, but only on the return to the state of origin. clearly, even in the best of faith, such acts can go on for months, creating additional trauma for both the child and the injured parent. the commission has also proposed that the court of justice should be able to give its opinion on the case before it, in order to ensure that the court of justice is able to give its opinion on the case before it.
the question he raised by raising his blue card. madam president, mr. deputy, i agree with you that there is no alternative to peace and there is no alternative to territorial integrity, but yesterday mrs. mogherini also spoke about the need for strong decentralization in ukraine. do you see perhaps the solution and the solution of the eastern part of ukraine and in the strong decentralization of ukraine?
mr. president, what i would certainly like to point out is what's going to happen tomorrow. tomorrow is really the last chance to make peace and all we want to talk about today about ukraine is certainly that tomorrow's meeting should be a meeting of agreement, a meeting of compromise and a meeting from which we all come out together stronger, braver, because to make peace, to win peace is actually real courage. what i want to emphasize is a sentence that mrs mogherini said yesterday, and it refers to the fact that one of the solutions that involves peace in ukraine is certainly decentralization. that is the way to solve part of the problem and i am sure that if this concept is included, and decentralisation and subsidiarity are part of european values, it can be very useful for the ukrainian people.
written. i voted in favour of the draft legislative resolution of the european parliament on the proposal for a regulation of the parliament and of the council on safeguard measures provided for in the agreement between the european economic community and the republic of iceland, as the proposal does not change the basis of the existing texts but only concerns their codification. this makes the european union's legal texts more accessible to citizens, i.e. clearer and more transparent. the proposal guarantees legal certainty and reduces the need for research work in order to find out what rules are in force.
written. this report on the proposal for a regulation aims at the clarity and transparency which are essential to establish the codification of legislative acts. for the purpose of transparency in european union regulations, official codification means the procedure by which acts which are the subject of codification are repealed and replaced by a single act. the purpose of this report on the proposal for a regulation is to codify the council regulation of 19 december 1972 on safeguard measures provided for in the agreement between the european economic community and the republic of iceland. since, in the opinion of the consultative working party of the legal services of the european parliament, the council and the commission, this proposal is limited to the codification of existing texts without substantial changes and since the consultative working parties are invited to adopt a position at first reading, i have supported this proposal by taking over the commission proposal.
written. the original text of council regulation no 2843/72/eec of 19 december 1972 on the safeguards provided for in the agreement with iceland was adopted as long ago as 1972. the regulation as such is still in force, but has been amended in the meantime. this codification relates to the part of the regulation governing the implementation of bilateral safeguard clauses which seek uniform conditions for the adoption of safeguard measures. the commission shall be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 26 to supplement this regulation by laying down detailed rules for the application of this regulation. the commission shall, in turn, adopt the applicable implementing acts in justified cases. such cases may be specific situations such as facilitating the export of one of the parties and may have a direct and immediate effect on trade. i have always advocated transparent legal texts, without the need to consult multiple amendments and additions to texts that, often vaguely, are dragged through different acts, making it difficult for interested parties to find and read, and ultimately apply, those acts. in order to ensure that the provisions of this regulation are correctly applied both between the parties to the agreement and between the shareholders to whom this regulation has legal effect, i consider the proposed codification to be necessary as it contributes to greater legal certainty in the application of the act.
written. i support the report by mr dude on the proposal for a regulation codifying the council regulation of 19 december 1972 on safeguard measures provided for in the agreement between the european economic community and the republic of iceland. this brings together the existing acts, without losing their content or substance, allowing for a simplification of the process of activation of safeguard measures provided for in the agreement between the european economic community and the republic of iceland and its greater transparency.
written. i support the report by mr andrzej dude on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on safeguard measures provided for in the agreement between the european economic community and the republic of iceland, on the grounds that the consultative working party of the legal services of the european parliament, the council and the commission has pointed out that the proposal is limited to the codification of existing texts and does not contain any substantive changes. in order to strengthen and extend economic relations between the community and iceland while respecting the conditions of competition and to contribute to the development and construction of europe, the eez and the republic of iceland have concluded an agreement which has been amended and supplemented on several occasions over the past decades. in the interests of greater transparency and openness, it was necessary to initiate and implement the procedure for the codification of regulation no 2843/72 of 1972 concerning the safeguard measures provided for in the eea-iceland agreement. the european parliament thus supports simplification, which will make union law clearer and more accessible to eu citizens. i welcome the continued efforts of the expert services of parliament, the council and the commission in the codification procedures.
written. i support and welcome this proposal, taking into account that the purpose of the proposal is to codify council regulation (eec) no 2843/72 of 19 december 1972 on safeguard measures provided for in the agreement between the european economic community and the republic of iceland. the new regulation will replace the various laws contained in the previous regulation, in such a way that the proposal constitutes a direct codification of existing texts without any substantial changes. i would stress the importance of codifying the rules to make the law clear and transparent. simplifying and clarifying european union law makes it more accessible to citizens by giving them new opportunities and opportunities to exercise specific rights deriving from the law, and i therefore support it.
written. - i support the proposal for a regulation because it aims at clarity and transparency which are essential to establish the codification of the council regulation of 19 december 1972 on safeguard measures provided for in the agreement between the european economic community and the republic of iceland. the main provisions which have been codified relate to the agreement between the european economic community and iceland signed in brussels on 22 july 1972. detailed rules are therefore necessary for the implementation of the safeguard clause and the safeguard measures provided for in the treaty. the new regulation thus aims to replace the various acts incorporated into it. the adoption of safeguard measures requires equal conditions in the implementation of the bilateral safeguard clauses of the agreement. the commission should therefore adopt implementing acts that can be applied immediately where imperative grounds of urgency so require and relate to the situations set out in the proposal, in particular in the case of exports of aids having a direct and immediate effect on trade.
written. i support this proposal as, in the opinion of the consultative working party of the legal services of the european parliament, the council and the commission, it is limited to the codification of existing texts without any substantive changes.
written. i voted in favour of the draft legislative resolution of the european parliament on the proposal for a regulation of the parliament and of the council on the measures that the union may take following the report of the wto dispute settlement body on anti-dumping and anti-subsidy matters, as the proposal leads to the codification of acts in the form of more transparent and accessible law for all european citizens. codification simplifies the search for regulations contained in different acts and texts. i therefore agree with the fact that the commission staff are required to codify acts after a maximum of ten amendments, which do not change their content, in order to make european union law transparent and clear.
written. the purpose of this proposal is to initiate the codification process of council regulation (ec) no 1515/2001 of 23 july 2001 on the measures that the community may take following a report by the wto dispute settlement body concerning anti-dumping and anti-subsidy matters. the new regulation brings together the various acts without losing their essence and introduces only those formal amendments which are required by the codification procedure. all eu citizens have the right to clear, simplified and accurate information about their legal obligations and rights, and the eu is committed to the principle of transparency. the commission therefore concluded that the measures in force were not in line with the findings of the investigation.
written. i welcome the rule established by the commission in 1987 that after a dozen amendments to a given act, it must be codified, which contributes to greater certainty of the correct application of the act, especially when dealing with such specific issues as these. the commission has not received any comments from interested parties on the provisional measures in force. the purpose of this proposal is to consolidate specific provisions allowing the union to adopt measures taken pursuant to regulation (ec) no 1225/2009 (anti-dumping measures) or regulation (ec) no 597/2009 (anti-subsidy measures). the commission shall, by means of implementing acts, adopt the implementing acts referred to in paragraphs 1 and 2 of this article. i supported this proposal because the codification purifies and unifies this text, which has been the subject of several different acts and their amendments (without any change in their content), which will ultimately contribute to greater certainty of its correct application.
written. i support this report by mr dude authorising the initiation of the procedure for the codification of council regulation (ec) no 1515/2001 of 23 july 2001 on measures which the community may take, following the report adopted by the wto dispute settlement body on anti-dumping and anti-subsidy matters. the new provision provides for the consolidation of different acts without losing their substance or changing their content. the initiation of this formal procedure will increase the transparency of the process and facilitate the information of interested stakeholders on anti-dumping and anti-subsidy matters, which is why i would like to reiterate my support for it.
written. i support the report by mr andrzej dude on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the measures that the union may take following the report of the wto dispute settlement body on anti-dumping and anti-subsidy matters, as the consultative working party of the legal services of the european parliament, the council and the commission has pointed out that the proposal is limited to the codification of existing texts without substantial changes. the purpose of the proposal is to codify regulation no 1515/2001 of 23 july 2001, which has been amended several times. the new regulation brings together the various scattered acts, thus contributing to transparency and openness. the european parliament thus supports simplification, which will make union law clearer and more accessible to eu citizens. i welcome the continued efforts of the expert services of parliament, the council and the commission in the codification procedures.
written. the consolidation of the dispute settlement body constitutes one of the greatest achievements of the wto, as it allows wto member states, regardless of their political or economic power, to lodge complaints about alleged violations of wto rules and to seek redress. i voted in favour of the codification of council regulation (ec) no 1515/2001 because it improves the current eu trade defence system for the benefit of all stakeholders. the emphasis is on finding practical solutions to real problems and the efficiency of systems and measures is improved. it is important to note that this does not change the fundamental principles and the balance of the system, and i therefore support the report.
written. i support this proposal because, in the opinion of the competent authorities, it refers only to the codification of existing texts without any substantial changes.
written. i voted in favour of the draft legislative resolution of the european parliament on the proposal from the parliament and the council on the measures that the union may take in relation to the combined effect of anti-dumping and anti-subsidy measures with safeguard measures, as i consider that one of the most important roles of the european union is to provide all its citizens with easy access to legal acts directly concerning them in a clear and transparent manner. it is precisely the codification that aims at this simplification without changing the essential content of the acts. i consider that such procedures further enable citizens of the union to exercise their specific rights.
the purpose of this proposal is to initiate the codification process of council regulation (ec) no 452/2003 of 6 march 2003 concerning measures which the community may take in respect of the combined effect of anti-dumping or anti-subsidy measures with safeguard measures. the new regulation brings together the various acts without losing their essence and introduces only those formal amendments which are required by the codification procedure. all eu citizens have the right to clear, simplified and accurate information about their legal obligations and rights, and the eu is committed to the principle of transparency. the commission therefore concluded that the measures in force were not in line with the findings of the investigation.
the commission has not received any comments from interested parties in this respect. the basic text has been significantly altered on several occasions. the commission established as early as 1987 the rule that after a dozen amendments to a given act, it must be codified, thus contributing to greater certainty of the correct application of the act. the text of the regulation and its amendments, covered by this codification, relate to the adoption of a specific provision enabling the commission to take measures in order to avoid cases where the combination of anti-subsidy and anti-dumping measures with safeguard tariff measures on the same product would create an insurmountable obstacle for individual producers wishing to export to the eu. the commission has not received any comments from interested parties on the alleged dumping margins. the act is of great importance in regulating trade between the eu (including croatia) and third countries. in view of the need for its correct application in relations between the eu and third countries on the international market, i supported the proposed codification as it contributes to greater legal certainty in the application of this regulation.
written. i support this report which aims to initiate the process of codification of council regulation (ec) no 452/2003 of 6 march 2003 on measures that the community may take in respect of the combined effect of anti-dumping or anti-subsidy measures with safeguard measures. the new regulation provides for the consolidation of different acts without losing their substance or changing their content. this formal procedure increases the transparency of the process and allows citizens to be fully informed of their rights and obligations with regard to the effect of anti-dumping or anti-subsidy measures with safeguard measures through simplified rules.
written. i support the report by mr andrzej dude on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the measures that the union may take in respect of the combined effect of anti-dumping or anti-subsidy measures with safeguard measures, because the consultative working party of the legal services of the european parliament, the council and the commission has pointed out that the proposal is limited to the codification of existing texts without substantial changes. the purpose of the proposal is to codify regulation no 452/2003 of 6 march 2003, which has been amended several times. the new regulation brings together the various scattered acts, thus contributing to transparency and openness. the european parliament thus supports simplification, which will make union law clearer and more accessible to eu citizens. i welcome the continued efforts of the expert services of parliament, the council and the commission in the codification procedures.
i support the proposal for codification of council regulation (ec) no 452/2003 of 6 march 2003 on measures which the community may take in respect of the combined effect of anti-dumping or anti-subsidy measures with safeguard measures, because it will thus consolidate the various acts incorporated in the regulation into a single act without any substantial changes. the commission has not found any evidence that the measures in force are likely to have a significant impact on the situation of the union industry. this regulation lays down specific provisions allowing for the taking of actions that would provide sufficient predictability and legal certainty for all the entities concerned, and i therefore support it.
written. - i support this regulation because it aims to codify the regulation of measures that can be taken in accordance with the wto report on anti-dumping and anti-subsidy matters. the commission therefore concluded that the measures in force were in line with the findings of the investigation. the commission also requested the goc to provide the information requested in the request for review. it is recommended that the european parliament adopt the proposal at the first hearing and take over the commission proposal adapted to the recommendations of the consultative working party.
written. i supported the report on the combined effect of anti-dumping or anti-subsidy measures with safeguard measures as it only codifies existing texts without any substantial changes. in my view, anti-dumping measures are a fundamental mechanism of the european union's trade policy and are of the utmost importance in order to achieve the objective of protecting the european union market and domestic products from dumped imports from third countries. since the field of anti-dumping and countervailing measures is one of the most dynamic parts of the tariff legislation of the european union, i consider that this draft regulates the protection against dumped imports from countries which are not members of the european union.
written. i shall vote in favour of this proposal, as it is considered to concern only the codification of existing texts without any substantive changes.
written. i voted in favour of the draft legislative resolution of the european parliament on the proposal for a regulation of the parliament and of the council on common rules for imports because i believe that the codification of the rules, which change frequently, is necessary to make the law clear and transparent. in this respect, i support the interinstitutional agreement which allows for an accelerated procedure for the rapid adoption of codified acts. this ensures the certainty of the rights and their accessibility to all citizens, which remains unchanged in substance.
written. the purpose of this proposal is to initiate the codification process of council regulation (ec) no 260/200 of 26 february 2009 establishing common rules for imports. the new regulation brings together the various acts without losing their essence and introduces only those formal amendments which are required by the codification procedure. all eu citizens have the right to clear, simplified and accurate information about their legal obligations and rights, and the eu is committed to the principle of transparency. i therefore supported this proposal to codify the council regulation with regard to common import measures.
council regulation (eu) no 260/2009 of 2009 on common rules for imports has been substantially amended several times. the commission established as early as 1987 the rule that after a dozen amendments to a given act, it must be codified, thus contributing to greater certainty of the correct application of the act. the subject matter of the basic regulation concerns imports from third countries into the eu territory and the possibility of the eu taking measures if a product is imported into the union in significantly increased quantities and under such conditions or circumstances as to cause or threaten to cause serious injury to a worker (such as the importation of inadequately insured products which may cause injury to workers when handling such products) as well as directly competing products (threat to destroy domestic production at eu level). i supported this proposal because the codification of the regulation in question and its subsequent amendments contributes to greater legal certainty in the application of the act, both for the member states and for the stakeholders on which the regulation has legal effect.
written. i am keeping this report which aims to start the process of codifying council regulation (ec) no 1061/2009 of 19 october 2009 establishing common rules for exports. the new regulation provides for the consolidation of different acts without losing their substance or changing their content. this formal procedure increases the transparency of the process and allows citizens to be fully informed of their rights and obligations when it comes to the common rules for imports through simplified rules.
codification of often changing acts is crucial in simplifying and explaining european union law in order to make it clearer and more accessible to citizens and to give citizens the opportunity to exercise their specific rights conferred on them by it. the purpose of the proposal is to codify council regulation (ec) no 260/2009 of 26 february 2009 on common rules for imports and to replace the various acts incorporated therein with the new regulation, thus contributing to transparency and openness. i therefore support the report by mr dude on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on common rules for imports, as the consultative working party of the legal services of the european parliament, the council and the commission has unanimously concluded that the proposal does indeed limit itself to the codification of existing texts without any substantive changes.
written. i voted in favour of the proposal to codify council regulation (ec) no 260/2009 of 26 february 2009 on common rules for imports, because this will achieve clear and transparent rights and thus make them more accessible to citizens. the common import rules put the interests of union producers, users and consumers at the centre. the purpose of this proposal is to codify the existing regulation in order to replace the various acts incorporated in it, and to consolidate all the existing acts into one with only those formal amendments necessary for codification, and i therefore support it.
written. i supported the report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on common rules for imports as it is a codification of existing texts without substantial changes with a view to establishing common rules for imports into the european union based on the principle of freedom of import. i consider that by these rules the european union monitors the implementation of the measures necessary to protect its interests, and thereby acts in accordance with the law, the obligations and the protection of the interests of the european union states at international level. i also consider it particularly positive to emphasise the obligation of member states to inform the commission in the event of the need to monitor common import rules, as this will also highlight the importance of import conditions and the economic and trade situation.
written. the proposal is limited to the codification of existing texts without any substantial changes and i will therefore support it.
written. i voted in favour of the draft legislative resolution of the european parliament on the proposal for a regulation of the parliament and of the council on common rules for exports formally codifying certain legislative texts. it is precisely the process of codification that contributes to simplifying and explaining european union law in the context of a europe of the citizens, so that the union's legal texts are as clear and transparent as possible. the scattered nature of the provisions in the various acts makes it necessary to adopt rapidly codified acts in order to make the provisions easily understandable. i also support the adoption of the first reading position based on the recommendations of the parliament's legal service advisory group.
the purpose of this proposal is to initiate the codification process of council regulation (ec) no 1061/2009 of 19 october 2009 establishing common rules for exports. the new regulation brings together the various acts without losing their essence and introduces only those formal amendments which are required by the codification procedure. all eu citizens have the right to clear, simplified and accurate information about their legal obligations and rights, and the eu is committed to the principle of transparency. i therefore supported this proposal to codify the council regulation with regard to common rules for exports.
council regulation (eu) no 1061/2009 on common rules for exports was adopted in 2009. the basic text has been significantly altered on several occasions. the commission established as early as 1987 the rule that after a dozen amendments to a given act, it must be codified, thus contributing to greater certainty of the correct application of the act. the basic regulation on common rules for exports, inter alia, establishes the fundamental principle that exports of products from the european union to third countries must be free, which means that they must not be subject to any quantitative restriction other than those applied in accordance with the provisions of that regulation. this rule applies to all products, both industrial and agricultural. the act is of great importance in regulating trade between the eu (including croatia) and third countries. in order to ensure that the proposed codification is correctly applied both between states and between stakeholders to whom this regulation has legal effect, i consider it necessary as it contributes to greater legal certainty in the application of the act. it is precisely in the interests of croatian farmers that i have supported this proposal.
written. i support this report which aims to start the process of codifying council regulation (ec) no 1061/2009 of 19 october 2009 establishing common rules for exports. the new regulation provides for the consolidation of different acts without losing their substance or changing their content. this formal procedure increases the transparency of the process and allows citizens to be fully informed of their rights and obligations under the common rules on exports through simplified rules.
one of the measures to make the work of the commission and the other eu institutions more transparent is to simplify and explain eu law so that it is clearer and more accessible to citizens. to achieve this objective, or if the law must be clear and transparent, the process of codifying rules, which change frequently, is of key importance. the purpose of the proposal is to codify council regulation (ec) no 1061/2009 of 19 october 2009 establishing common rules for exports. the new regulation will replace various scattered acts, which certainly contributes to transparency and openness. i therefore support the report by mr andrzej dude on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on common rules for exports, as, in the opinion of the consultative working party of the legal services of the european parliament and of the council, the proposal does indeed limit itself to a codification of existing texts without any substantive changes.
the purpose of the proposal is to codify council regulation (ec) no 1061/2009 of 19 october 2009 establishing common rules for exports. the new regulation will replace the various acts incorporated therein and will be consolidated into a single act with only the formal amendments necessary for codification. the common commercial policy should be based on uniform principles. in the interests of clarity and rationality, this regulation should be codified and i therefore support this proposal.
written. - i support this report because the codification of common export rules is crucial to facilitate the flow of information between them, given that they are spread over different provisions and are frequently amended. since the substance of the acts is not altered, the 1994 interinstitutional agreement between the european parliament, the council and the commission may be applied by means of an accelerated procedure. it seeks clarity and rationality through uniform principles. exports are largely liberalised and rarely subject to quantitative restrictions. the commission shall be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 26 to supplement this regulation by laying down detailed rules for the application of this regulation. in this respect, it is important to monitor export trends, the state of the economy and trade and to impose safeguard measures on a level playing field.
written. i supported the report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on common rules for exports as it is a codification of existing texts without substantial changes. since i believe that the common commercial policy should be based on uniform principles, including with regard to exports, i consider this codification to be extremely useful. i consider that the importance of common export measures is reflected, inter alia, in their contribution to the terms and conditions of exports, to export trends, to the various aspects of the economic and trade situation and to the protection of industrial and commercial property. i therefore consider that the common export measures will help to establish more successful international cooperation between member states and reduce violations of international law as well as other activities that may harm member states.
written. this document concerns cooperation between states in the case of international child abduction. in fact, when parents come from different countries, it is not uncommon for them to take advantage of loopholes and the lack of clearly defined cooperation between countries in the event of a break-up or divorce to illegally adopt a child. the hague convention therefore seeks to establish clear international practices in such cases. the best interests of the child come first, and that's why i support the report.
written. i voted in favour of the draft legislative resolution of the european parliament on the proposal for a council decision on the declaration by which the member states accept, in the interest of the european union, gabon's accession to the 1980 hague convention on the civil aspects of international child abduction, as the protection and promotion of the rights of children is one of the priorities of the union. this includes preventive measures to prevent child abduction and international cooperation. i believe that coordinated measures are needed to return abducted children to their country of residence. i therefore believe that such cases should be governed by the applicable law of the country in which the children are resident and that there is a need to condemn and warn against such acts.
the 1980 hague convention on the civil aspects of international child abduction is an important instrument that has been ratified by all eu member states. the convention establishes a system of cooperation between states aimed at resolving cases of international child abduction. it is common for a child's parents to live apart in different countries, so the biggest problem is the national bias of the legal systems of individual countries. it is possible that the courts in both countries will declare that they have jurisdiction and that custody of the child will be granted to each of the parents who are their nationals. the convention is intended to address such situations at the international level by establishing that the courts and applicable laws are only those of the state of the child's residence. the convention also implements a system that ensures the automatic return of children who have been abducted. the european union now has exclusive competence in this area, as confirmed by the european court of justice. i support the council decision inviting the member states to accept gabon's accession to the convention as this is in the interest of the european union, it will contribute to the coherence and uniformity of the application of union law.
written. international child abduction is synonymous with international parental kidnapping, however legally, international child abduction originates from private international law and refers to the illegal removal of children from their home by an acquaintance or family member to a foreign country. in this context, "illegality" derives from "violation of custody rights", and "home" is defined as the child's habitual residence. as implied, "custody violation" is a phenomenon of international child abduction that typically involves illegal alienation, creating a conflict of jurisdiction of law, multiple authorities and jurisdictions. they can reach seemingly reasonable but also conflicting custody decisions with geographically limited application. such an outcome often negatively affects the child's access to and relationship with the opposite sex of the family and may cause the loss of their former language, culture, name and nationality, which violates numerous children's rights and may cause serious psychological and emotional trauma to the child and the family. the harmful consequences of such behaviour for children and families have been demonstrated in several studies, and international child abduction has been identified as a form of parental alienation and child abuse. the accession of gabon to the 1980 hague convention provides for the protection of children in the event of adverse developments in the personal relationships of their parents.
written. i support the report on gabon's accession to the 1980 hague convention on the civil aspects of international child abduction. although gabon has ratified the convention, its application to eu member states requires the consent of all member states. i think it's in the interest of all of us that the problems that can be caused by the incompatibility of legal systems, if the parents of a child come from two different countries, are adequately regulated. children's rights must come first, and since children have suffered the consequences of legal irregularities, i want to once again express my full support for this report and call on all eu member states to do the same as soon as possible.
written. every year, eight million children disappear worldwide, which would mean that nearly 22,000 children disappear every day. all our efforts should be directed towards securing a better future for our children, and so this convention, signed by all the member states of the european union, should ensure a secure future and the realisation of all children's rights. as the report states, the most common problems are the agreement of the court's jurisdiction over the custody of children whose parents are from different countries, as well as the lack of communication between the two countries. the convention is designed to have such cases handled by predetermined courts of competent jurisdiction and to have the prescribed laws applied. the countries that join the convention enter into a common system for dealing with child abduction. if the legal systems differ too much and the country does not have the means to establish a body to enforce the laws and proposals of this convention, the country cannot even access it. that is precisely the problem with gabon's accession to the hague convention. gabon acceded to the convention on 6 december 2010 and it entered into force on 1 march 2011. in order to address the abduction of children in gabon and the european union, i support this report for the acceptance of the accession to the 1980 hague convention on the civil aspects of international child abduction.
written. i support gabon's accession to the 1980 hague convention on the civil aspects of international child abduction, as this ensures timely and comprehensive protection for vulnerable children. the 1980 hague convention on the civil aspects of international child abduction is an important instrument that has been ratified by 86 countries to date, including all members of the european union. abduction problems often arise when parents divorce, especially if the mother and father are from different countries. the purpose of the convention is to resolve these cases at the international level, by establishing competent courts and appropriate laws. proposals for third countries to accede to the convention have no impact on the budget of the european union and the prevention of child abduction forms an essential part of the eu's policy to promote children's rights. the european union is therefore actively encouraging third countries to accede to the convention, and i support the report.
written. - preventing child abduction is an important part of the european union's policy to promote children's rights. the eu's international action is therefore also very important in order to improve the application of the hague convention of 25 october 1980 on the civil aspects of international child abduction. the convention thus establishes a system of cooperation between states parties to the convention aimed at resolving cases of international child abduction in the event of divorce of parents from different states. the problem arises in the part where the convention does not provide for the autonomous action of international organisations and therefore a council decision is required calling on the member states to accept, each in relation to its territory, the accession of gabon to the convention and thus the effective entry into force of the convention in cases involving the eu and that country. it is desirable that the acceptance report on gabon's accession takes effect after the establishment of the central authority assisting eu citizens in this case. i think that gabon's accession to the convention is very welcome, because many eu citizens are of gabonese origin, and in this way children associated with the gabonese community will be protected from abduction. it is therefore proposed that this proposal be adopted by parliament without amendments, in order to ensure the comprehensive protection of the european union as regards children.
written. this document concerns cooperation between states in the case of international child abduction. in fact, when parents come from different countries, it is not uncommon for them to take advantage of loopholes and the lack of clearly defined cooperation between countries in the event of a break-up or divorce to illegally adopt a child. the hague convention therefore seeks to establish clear international practices in such cases. the best interests of the child come first, and that's why i support the report.
written. i voted in favour of the draft legislative resolution of the european parliament on the proposal for a council decision on the declaration by which the member states accept, in the interest of the european union, the accession of andorra to the 1980 hague convention on the civil aspects of international child abduction, because i believe that the protection of children should be a priority at global level. only this kind of action can fundamentally and concretely address this problem of global scale, which has different causes and connotations. i support the accession of andorra to this convention because i am confident that within the legal framework that the convention provides for andorra, it will further strengthen activities aimed at combating the problem of child abduction.
the 1980 hague convention on the civil aspects of international child abduction is an important instrument that has been ratified by all eu member states. the convention establishes a system of cooperation between states aimed at resolving cases of international child abduction. it is common for a child's parents to live apart in different countries, so the biggest problem is the national bias of the legal systems of individual countries. it is possible that the courts in both countries will declare that they have jurisdiction and that custody of the child will be granted to each of the parents who are their nationals. the convention is intended to address such situations at the international level by establishing that the courts and applicable laws are only those of the state of the child's residence. the convention also implements a system that ensures the automatic return of children who have been abducted. the european union now has exclusive competence in this area, as confirmed by the european court of justice. i support the council decision inviting the member states to accept andorra's accession to the convention as this is in the interest of the european union, it will contribute to the coherence and uniformity of the application of union law.
written. the objectives of the 1980 hague convention on the civil aspects of international child abduction are to ensure the return as soon as possible of children unlawfully removed or retained in a contracting state and to ensure that the rights of care and access to a child under the law of one contracting state are effectively respected in the other contracting state. the accession of andorra to the 1980 hague convention provides for the protection of children in the event of adverse developments in the personal relationships of their parents.
written. i support the report on andorra's accession to the 1980 hague convention on the civil aspects of international child abduction, especially as it is a european country surrounded by eu member states. although andorra has ratified the convention, its application to eu member states requires the consent of all member states. i think it's in the interest of all of us that the problems that can be caused by the incompatibility of legal systems, if the parents of a child come from two different countries, are adequately regulated. children's rights must come first, and since children have suffered the consequences of legal irregularities, i want to once again express my full support for this report and call on all eu member states to do the same as soon as possible.
written. i support the report which aims to adopt declarations of acceptance by member states of the accession of andorra to the 1980 hague convention on the civil aspects of international child abduction, in the interest of the european union, bearing in mind that andorra submitted its application for accession to the convention on 6 april 2011 and that it entered into force on 1 july 2011. eight million children disappear every year in the world, which would mean almost 22,000 children disappearing every day. all our efforts should be directed towards securing a better future for our children, and so this convention, signed by all the member states of the european union, should ensure a secure future and the realisation of all children's rights. as the report states, the most common problems are the agreement of the court's jurisdiction over the custody of children whose parents are from different countries, as well as the lack of communication between the two countries. the convention is designed to have such cases handled by predetermined courts of competent jurisdiction and to have the prescribed laws applied. the countries that join the convention enter into a common system for dealing with child abduction. if the legal systems differ too much and the country does not have the means to establish a body to enforce the laws and proposals of this convention, the country cannot even access it. that's the problem with andorra's accession to the hague convention being so slow.
written. the 1980 hague convention on the civil aspects of international child abduction aims to ensure the prompt return of illegally removed or retained children through the cooperation of the central institutions of the contracting parties. the treaty on european union prioritises the protection and promotion of the rights of the child and thus makes the prevention of child abduction an essential part of this policy. i therefore support and welcome the accession of andorra to the 1980 hague convention on the civil aspects of international kidnapping. i particularly welcome the fact that andorra has already designated and appointed a central institution to deal with european citizens in cases of illegal child abduction in andorra, and i therefore support the report.
written. - the hague convention on the civil aspects of international child abduction of 25 november 1980 is a very important instrument ratified by all the member states of the european union, and its purpose is to deal with such cases at international level and to introduce a system ensuring the immediate return of children. the biggest problem is national bias in the legal systems of individual countries, and it is not uncommon for courts of both countries to be called competent to deal with such cases. the european union's action here is very important and it has to be decided whether to accept the accession of andorra by a declaration of the member states, which is decided by the council after consulting the parliament. i support andorra's accession to the convention in this case, because that way many children connected to the andorran community will be protected from abduction. the committee therefore recommends that the european parliament approve the proposed council decision and accept the accession of andorra.
written. this document concerns cooperation between states in the case of international child abduction. in fact, when parents come from different countries, it is not uncommon for them to take advantage of loopholes and the lack of clearly defined cooperation between countries in the event of a break-up or divorce to illegally adopt a child. the hague convention therefore seeks to establish clear international practices in such cases. the best interests of the child come first, and that's why i support the report.
written. i voted in favour of the draft legislative resolution of the european parliament on the proposal for a council decision on the declaration by which the member states accept, in the interest of the european union, the accession of seychelles to the 1980 hague convention on the civil aspects of international child abduction, as this provides effective assistance to seychelles in countering the unlawful abduction of children and strengthens international cooperation in this field. children's rights are one of the european union's priorities, but to ensure that zero tolerance is respected, additional efforts are needed through synergistic and decisive action. i consider the convention to be an effective instrument for bridging the problems of legal systems that exist in this context in individual member states.
the 1980 hague convention on the civil aspects of international child abduction is an important instrument that has been ratified by all eu member states. the convention establishes a system of cooperation between states aimed at resolving cases of international child abduction. it is common for a child's parents to live apart in different countries, so the biggest problem is the national bias of the legal systems of individual countries. it is possible that the courts in both countries will declare that they have jurisdiction and that custody of the child will be granted to each of the parents who are their nationals. the convention is intended to address such situations at the international level by establishing that the courts and applicable laws are only those of the state of the child's residence. the convention also implements a system that ensures the automatic return of children who have been abducted. the european union now has exclusive competence in this area, as confirmed by the european court of justice. i support the council decision calling on the member states to accept the accession of seychelles to the convention because it is in the interest of the european union, it will contribute to the coherence and uniformity of the application of union law.
written. in recent times, because of cross-cultural openness and easier ways of moving, intermarriage has become more common and increased. in the event of divorce, it is important that a reliable child protection mechanism exists and functions properly. the 1980 hague convention on the civil aspects of international child abduction is currently the most useful binding legislation for the protection of children when it comes to international child abduction. by increasing the number of countries that have co-signed the convention, we are also empowering its effects, and by extending its reach across the globe, we are protecting one of the most important links in society, our children. by acceding to the 1980 hague convention, seychelles ensures that children receive adequate protection in the event of adverse developments in their family relationships.
written. i support the report on the accession of seychelles to the 1980 hague convention on the civil aspects of international child abduction. although seychelles has ratified the said convention, its application to the eu member states requires the consent of all member states. i think it's in the interest of all of us that the problems that can be caused by the incompatibility of legal systems, if the parents of a child come from two different countries, are adequately regulated. children's rights must come first, and since children have suffered the consequences of legal irregularities, i want to once again express my full support for this report and call on all eu member states to do the same as soon as possible.
written. every year, eight million children disappear worldwide, which would mean that nearly 22,000 children disappear every day. all our efforts should be directed towards securing a better future for our children, and so this convention, signed by all the member states of the european union, should ensure a secure future and the realisation of all children's rights. as the report notes, the most common problems are the agreement of the court's jurisdiction over the custody of children whose parents are from different countries, as well as the lack of communication between the two countries. the purpose of the convention is to have such cases handled by predetermined courts of competent jurisdiction and to have the prescribed laws applied. the countries that join the convention enter into a common system for dealing with child abduction. if the legal systems differ too much and the country does not have the means to establish a body to enforce the laws and proposals of this convention, the country cannot even access it. this is precisely the problem with seychelles' accession to the hague convention. seychelles submitted its instrument of accession to the convention on 27 may 2008 and it entered into force on 1 august 2008. in order to address the child abduction cases of the seychelles and the european union, i support this report for the acceptance of accession to the 1980 hague convention on the civil aspects of international child abduction.
the 1980 hague convention on the civil aspects of international child abduction is an important instrument for the protection and promotion of children's rights. significantly, 92 countries, including all members of the european union, have ratified the convention to date. the purpose of the convention is to resolve cases of unlawful removal of children by one of the parents at the international level, by establishing competent courts and appropriate laws. it is necessary to emphasise that a single legal framework applicable between eu member states and third countries can offer the best solution to sensitive cases of international child abduction. it is about the protection of children and their rights and therefore i support seychelles' accession to the 1980 hague convention.
written. - i support seychelles' accession to the 1980 hague convention and i believe that this issue carries the importance of protecting all eu citizens associated with seychelles and children who must be protected in every respect from abduction. the convention is intended to resolve such cases at the international level and by establishing the fact that the courts and laws of the child's country of residence have jurisdiction. the convention also establishes a system to ensure the immediate return of children who have been abducted. the eu has exclusive external competence in this area and the problem arises when the convention does not provide for the autonomous action of international organisations. the eu member states are invited to accept the accession of seychelles to the convention in the interest of the european union, and the european parliament should approve the proposed council decision and accept the accession of seychelles.
written. this document concerns cooperation between states in the case of international child abduction. in fact, when parents come from different countries, it is not uncommon for them to take advantage of loopholes and the lack of clearly defined cooperation between countries in the event of a break-up or divorce to illegally adopt a child. the hague convention therefore seeks to establish clear international practices in such cases. the best interests of the child come first, and that's why i support the report.
written. i voted in favour of the draft legislative resolution of the european parliament on the proposal for a council decision on the declaration by which the member states accept, in the interest of the european union, the accession of the russian federation to the 1980 hague convention on the civil aspects of international child abduction, as it establishes an international system of cooperation to address the global problem of child abduction. the russian federation is hereby granted a joint approach to respect and protection of children's rights which certainly contributes to strengthening the social policy of russian society. the fact is that russia is lagging behind in developing a common legal framework for protecting children's rights. therefore, i believe that russian society and the russian authorities will benefit considerably from joining this convention.
written. - the convention establishes a system of cooperation between the states acceding to the convention, the purpose of which is to deal with cases of international child abduction in the event of the separation of parents from different states, who often take advantage of the lack of cooperation between these states to secure custody of the child. the eu has exclusive external competence in this area and therefore a council decision is required inviting member states to accept the accession of the russian federation to the convention and thus its effective entry into force. i strongly support the accession of the russian federation to the convention, and children who are in contact with the russian community will be insured against abduction. it is desirable that the declaration of acceptance of russia's accession takes effect after the appointment of the central body by russia.
the 1980 hague convention on the civil aspects of international child abduction is an important instrument that has been ratified by all eu member states. the convention establishes a system of cooperation between states aimed at resolving cases of international child abduction. it is common for a child's parents to live apart in different countries, so the biggest problem is the national bias of the legal systems of individual countries. it is possible that the courts in both countries will declare that they have jurisdiction and that custody of the child will be granted to each of the parents who are their nationals. the convention is intended to address such situations at the international level by establishing that the courts and applicable laws are only those of the state of the child's residence. the convention also implements a system that ensures the automatic return of children who have been abducted. the european union now has exclusive competence in this area, as confirmed by the european court of justice. i support the council decision calling on the member states to accept russia's accession to the convention, as this is in the interest of the european union, it will contribute to the coherence and uniformity of the application of union law.
written. the primary international instrument designed to protect children from the harmful effects of their unlawful removal or retention across borders is the hague convention of 25 october 1980 on the civil aspects of international child abduction. international child abduction is a serious problem, with 300,000 children reported worldwide as abducted internationally each year. this multilateral agreement currently has 93 co-signatories. the number of abducted children could be further reduced if the number of co-signatory countries increases. therefore, i welcome the accession of the russian federation to the 1980 hague convention on the civil aspects of international child abduction.
written. i support the report on the accession of the russian federation to the 1980 hague convention on the civil aspects of international child abduction, especially in times of crisis and cooling relations with the eu. although the russian federation has ratified the convention, its application to eu member states requires the consent of all member states. i think it's in the interest of all of us that the problems that can be caused by the incompatibility of legal systems, if the parents of a child come from two different countries, are adequately regulated. children's rights must come first, and since children have suffered the consequences of legal irregularities, i want to once again express my full support for this report and call on all eu member states to do the same as soon as possible.
written. i support the report which aims to adopt declarations of acceptance by member states of russia's accession to the 1980 hague convention on the civil aspects of international child abduction, in the interest of the eu. eight million children disappear every year in the world, which would mean almost 22,000 children disappearing every day. all our efforts should be directed towards securing a better future for our children, and so this convention, signed by all eu member states, should ensure a secure future and the realisation of all children's rights. as the report notes, the most common problems are the agreement of the court's jurisdiction over the custody of children whose parents are from different countries, as well as the lack of communication between the two countries. the purpose of the convention is to have such cases handled by predetermined courts of competent jurisdiction and to have the prescribed laws applied. the countries that join the convention enter into a common system for dealing with child abduction. if the legal systems differ too much and the country does not have the means to establish a body to enforce the laws and proposals of this convention, the country cannot even access it. this is the problem with russia's slow accession to the hague convention russia submitted its accession to the convention on 28 july 2008, and it entered into force on 1 october 2008.
written. as the convention on the civil aspects of international child abduction, signed at the hague on 25 october 1980, seeks to protect children in a way that ensures the prompt return of children unlawfully removed or retained in a contracting state, and that seeks to ensure that the rights of care and access to a child under the law of one contracting state are effectively respected in another contracting state, i welcome this decision on russia's accession to the hague convention. i consider it an important task of the convention to establish a system of cooperation between the contracting states aimed at resolving cases of international child abduction. i consider it positive that the contracting state will designate a central authority to carry out the obligations that the convention provides for such an authority, in particular because the central executive bodies will cooperate with each other and enhance cooperation between competent authorities among the contracting states to ensure the return of the child as soon as possible, and therefore i support the report.
written. - the convention establishes a system of cooperation between the states acceding to the convention, the purpose of which is to deal with cases of international child abduction in the event of the separation of parents from different states, who often take advantage of the lack of cooperation between those states in order to secure custody of the child. the eu has exclusive external competence in this area and therefore a council decision is required inviting member states to accept the accession of the russian federation to the convention and thus its effective entry into force. i strongly support the accession of the russian federation to the convention, and children who are in contact with the russian community will be insured against abduction. it is desirable that the declaration of acceptance of russia's accession takes effect after the appointment of the central body by russia.
written. this document concerns cooperation between states in the case of international child abduction. in fact, when parents come from different countries, it is not uncommon for them to take advantage of loopholes and the lack of clearly defined cooperation between countries in the event of a break-up or divorce to illegally adopt a child. the hague convention therefore seeks to establish clear international practices in such cases. the best interests of the child come first, and that's why i support the report.
written. i voted in favour of the draft legislative resolution on the proposal for a council decision on the declaration by which the member states accept, in the interest of the european union, the accession of albania to the 1980 hague convention on the civil aspects of international child abduction, because i consider it necessary to further involve albania in the protection of children's rights. i believe that albania will be able to counter more strongly and effectively the malicious abduction of children in the international legal context provided by the convention. in this context, international prevention of child abduction and strong cooperation among the states parties to this convention are important. i support the adjudication of child abduction cases in the competent courts and on the basis of the applicable law of the countries in which the children are resident, and i strongly condemn any such violence.
the 1980 hague convention on the civil aspects of international child abduction is an important instrument that has been ratified by all eu member states. the convention establishes a system of cooperation between states aimed at resolving cases of international child abduction. it is common for a child's parents to live apart in different countries, so the biggest problem is the national bias of the legal systems of individual countries. it is possible that the courts in both countries will declare that they have jurisdiction and that custody of the child will be granted to each of the parents who are their nationals. the convention is intended to address such situations at the international level by establishing that the courts and applicable laws are only those of the state of the child's residence. the convention also implements a system that ensures the automatic return of children who have been abducted. the european union now has exclusive competence in this area, as confirmed by the european court of justice. i support the council decision calling on the member states to accept albania's accession to the convention as this is in the interest of the european union, it will contribute to the coherence and uniformity of the application of union law.
written. children need a father and a mother, and parents are simply expected to be parents, regardless of the circumstances that occur during their life together and eventually result in divorce. in the event of such a situation arising, it is essential that a reliable child protection mechanism exists and functions properly. the 1980 hague convention on the civil aspects of international child abduction is currently the most useful binding legislation for the protection of children in the field of international child abduction, and i therefore welcome the accession of albania to this convention.
written. i support the report on albania's accession to the 1980 hague convention on the civil aspects of international child abduction, especially as it is a european country candidate for full eu membership although albania has ratified the convention, its application to eu member states requires the consent of all member states. i think it's in the interest of all of us that the problems that can be caused by the incompatibility of legal systems, if the parents of a child come from two different countries, are adequately regulated. children's rights must come first, and since children have suffered the consequences of legal irregularities, i want to once again express my full support for this report and call on all eu member states to do the same as soon as possible.
written. in order to address the cases of child abduction in albania and the european union, i support this report for the acceptance of accession to the 1980 hague convention on the civil aspects of international child abduction. eight million children disappear every year in the world, which would mean almost 22,000 children disappearing every day. all our efforts should be directed towards securing a better future for our children, and so this convention, signed by all eu member states, should ensure a secure future and the realisation of all children's rights. as the report notes, the most common problems are the agreement of the court's jurisdiction over the custody of children whose parents are from different countries, as well as the lack of communication between the two countries. the purpose of the convention is to have such cases handled by predetermined courts of competent jurisdiction and to have the prescribed laws applied. the countries that join the convention enter into a common system for dealing with child abduction. if the legal systems differ too much and the country does not have the means to establish a body to enforce the laws and proposals of this convention, the country cannot even access it. this is precisely the problem with albania's slow accession to the hague convention. albania submitted its accession application to the convention on 4 may 2007, and it entered into force on 1 august 2007.
written. considering that the convention on the civil aspects of international child abduction, signed at the hague on 25 october 1980, seeks to protect children in a way that ensures the prompt return of children unlawfully removed or retained in a contracting state, and that it seeks to ensure that the rights of care and access to a child under the law of one contracting state are effectively respected in another contracting state, i welcome the decision to accede to the hague convention by albania. i consider it an important task of the convention to establish a system of cooperation between the contracting states aimed at resolving cases of international child abduction. i consider it positive that the contracting state will designate a central authority to carry out the obligations that the convention provides for such an authority, in particular because the central executive bodies will cooperate with each other and enhance cooperation between competent authorities among the contracting states to ensure the return of the child as soon as possible, and therefore i support the report.
written. - i consider that albania's accession to the hague convention is acceptable and i support it because in this way children of albanian origin will be safe from abduction after the divorce of their parents, as well as other eu citizens who have close ties to that country and its community. the hague convention on the civil aspects of international child abduction of 25 november 1980 is a very important instrument ratified by all the member states of the european union and establishes a system of cooperation between the states acceding to the treaty. the main objective is to solve the problem of abduction in case of exploiting the lack of cooperation between the two countries. the eu has exclusive external competence in this area and the problem arises when the convention does not provide for the autonomous action of international organisations. the accession of albania to the convention should be accepted by each member state in respect of its territory and thus the effective entry into force of the convention in cases involving the eu and that country. the council decision, adopted unanimously after consulting parliament, should accept the accession of albania to the hague convention.
written. this document concerns cooperation between states in the case of international child abduction. in fact, when parents come from different countries, it is not uncommon for them to take advantage of loopholes and the lack of clearly defined cooperation between countries in the event of a break-up or divorce to illegally adopt a child. the hague convention therefore seeks to establish clear international practices in such cases. the best interests of the child come first, and that's why i support the report.
written. i voted in favour of the draft legislative resolution of the european parliament on the proposal for a council decision on the declaration by which the member states accept, in the interest of the european union, the accession of singapore to the 1980 hague convention on the civil aspects of international child abduction, as i believe that a global approach to this problem is needed, with synergistic and coordinated action. preventive measures to prevent child abduction and international cooperation are therefore necessary. i believe that the legal framework of the convention will provide strong support to singapore in tackling this global problem.
the 1980 hague convention on the civil aspects of international child abduction is an important instrument that has been ratified by all eu member states. the convention establishes a system of cooperation between states aimed at resolving cases of international child abduction. it is common for a child's parents to live apart in different countries, so the biggest problem is the national bias of the legal systems of individual countries. it is possible that the courts in both countries will declare that they have jurisdiction and that custody of the child will be granted to each of the parents who are their nationals. the convention is intended to address such situations at the international level by establishing that the courts and applicable laws are only those of the state of the child's residence. the convention also implements a system that ensures the automatic return of children who have been abducted. the european union now has exclusive competence in this area, as confirmed by the european court of justice. i support the council decision calling on the member states to accept the accession of singapore to the convention, as this is in the interest of the european union, it will contribute to the coherence and uniformity of the application of union law.
divorces between spouses of different nationalities are often the reason why one of the parents does not comply with a court decision on the custody of the children and forcibly takes the children out of the country of their residence. the parent who abducts or secretly takes a child usually goes to his country of origin and seeks to protect his interest in keeping the child under another legal system. the 1980 hague convention on the civil aspects of international child abduction is currently the most useful binding legislation for the protection of children when it comes to international child abduction. singapore's accession to the 1980 hague convention provides for the protection of children in the event of adverse developments in the personal relationships of their parents.
written. i support the report on singapore's accession to the 1980 hague convention on the civil aspects of international child abduction. although singapore has ratified the said convention, its application to the eu member states requires the consent of all member states. i think it's in the interest of all of us that the problems that can be caused by the incompatibility of legal systems, if the parents of a child come from two different countries, are adequately regulated. children's rights must come first, and since children have suffered the consequences of legal irregularities, i want to once again express my full support for this report and call on all eu member states to do the same as soon as possible.
written. in order to address the abduction of children in singapore and the eu, i support this report for the acceptance of the accession to the 1980 hague convention on the civil aspects of international child abduction, bearing in mind that singapore submitted its accession to the convention on 28 december 2010 and that it entered into force on 1 march 2011. eight million children disappear every year in the world, which would mean almost 22,000 children disappearing every day. all our efforts should be directed towards securing a better future for our children, and so this convention, signed by all eu member states, should ensure a secure future and the realisation of all children's rights. as the report notes, the most common problems are the agreement of the court's jurisdiction over the custody of children whose parents are from different countries, as well as the lack of communication between the two countries. the purpose of the convention is to have such cases handled by predetermined courts of competent jurisdiction and to have the prescribed laws applied. the countries that join the convention enter into a common system for dealing with child abduction. if the legal systems differ too much and the country does not have the means to establish a body to enforce the laws and proposals of this convention, the country cannot even access it. this is precisely the problem with singapore's accession to the hague convention.
written. as the convention on the civil aspects of international child abduction, signed at the hague on 25 october 1980, seeks to protect children in a manner that ensures the prompt return of children unlawfully removed or retained in a contracting state, and that seeks to ensure that the rights of care and access to a child under the law of one contracting state are effectively respected in another contracting state, i welcome this decision on singapore's accession to the hague convention. i believe that the most important task of the convention is to establish a system of cooperation between the contracting states aimed at resolving cases of international child abduction. i consider it positive that the contracting state will designate a central authority to carry out the obligations that the convention provides for such an authority, in particular because the central executive bodies will cooperate with each other and promote cooperation between competent authorities among the contracting states to ensure the return of the child as soon as possible. i agree with the singaporean rapporteur who suggests that parliament should approve the proposal without amendments, to ensure that as many children as possible are protected at eu level, and therefore i support the report.
written. - i support singapore's accession to the 1980 hague convention on the civil aspects of international child abduction, as this document is of the utmost importance to the issue of protecting children's rights. this further contributes to the safety of children, in particular by addressing the problem that often arises when a child's parents are citizens of different countries. the eu now has exclusive competence in this area, as confirmed by the court of justice opinion 1/13 which leaves less room for exploitation through poor cooperation between states.
written. this document concerns cooperation between states in the case of international child abduction. in fact, when parents come from different countries, it is not uncommon for them to take advantage of loopholes and the lack of clearly defined cooperation between countries in the event of a break-up or divorce to illegally adopt a child. the hague convention therefore seeks to establish clear international practices in such cases. the best interests of the child come first, and that's why i support the report.
written. i voted in favour of the draft legislative resolution on the council proposal for a declaration by which the member states accept, in the interest of the european union, the accession of morocco to the 1980 hague convention on the civil aspects of international child abduction, as this makes it possible for morocco to address the phenomenon of child abduction in that country at international level, within the framework of common legal instruments. i support supporting african countries in strengthening and improving the protection of human rights, and i believe that cases of child abduction should be regulated by the applicable law of the country in which the child is resident.
the 1980 hague convention on the civil aspects of international child abduction is an important instrument that has been ratified by all eu member states. the convention establishes a system of cooperation between states aimed at resolving cases of international child abduction. it is common for a child's parents to live apart in different countries, so the biggest problem is the national bias of the legal systems of individual countries. it is possible that the courts in both countries will declare that they have jurisdiction and that custody of the child will be granted to each of the parents who are their nationals. the convention is intended to address such situations at the international level by establishing that the courts and applicable laws are only those of the state of the child's residence. the convention also implements a system that ensures the automatic return of children who have been abducted. the european union now has exclusive competence in this area, as confirmed by the european court of justice. i support the council decision inviting the member states to accept the accession of morocco to the convention, as this is in the interest of the european union, it will contribute to the coherence and uniformity of the application of union law.
written. it is difficult to say how common divorce and separation between partners of different nationalities are, but sad statistics of international child abductions by such parents are not uncommon. international child abduction is a serious problem, with 300,000 children reported worldwide as abducted internationally each year. the objectives of the 1980 hague convention on the civil aspects of international child abduction are to ensure the return as soon as possible of children unlawfully removed or retained in a contracting state and to ensure that the rights of custody and access to a child under the law of one contracting state are effectively respected in the other contracting state. the accession of morocco to the 1980 hague convention provides for the protection of children in the event of adverse developments in the personal relationships of their parents.
written. i support the report on morocco's accession to the 1980 hague convention on the civil aspects of international child abduction. although morocco has ratified the said convention, its application to the eu member states requires the consent of all member states. i think it's in the interest of all of us that the problems that can be caused by the incompatibility of legal systems, if the parents of a child come from two different countries, are adequately regulated. children's rights must come first, and since children have suffered the consequences of legal irregularities, i want to once again express my full support for this report and call on all eu member states to do the same as soon as possible.
written. every year, eight million children disappear worldwide, which would mean that nearly 22,000 children disappear every day. all our efforts should be directed towards securing a better future for our children, and so this convention, signed by all eu member states, should ensure a secure future and the realisation of all children's rights. as the report notes, the most common problems are the agreement of the court's jurisdiction over the custody of children whose parents are from different countries, as well as the lack of communication between the two countries. the purpose of the convention is to have such cases handled by predetermined courts of competent jurisdiction and to have the prescribed laws applied. the countries that join the convention enter into a common system for dealing with child abduction. if the legal systems differ too much and the country does not have the means to establish a body to enforce the laws and proposals of this convention, the country cannot even access it. this is precisely the problem with morocco's accession to the hague convention. morocco acceded to the convention on 9 march 2010 and it entered into force on 1 june 2011. in order to address the cases of child abduction in morocco and the european union, i support this report for the acceptance of accession to the 1980 hague convention on the civil aspects of international child abduction.
written. considering that the convention on the civil aspects of international child abduction, signed at the hague on 25 october 1980, seeks to protect children in a way that ensures the prompt return of children unlawfully removed or retained in a contracting state, and that it seeks to ensure that the rights of custody and access to a child under the law of one contracting state are effectively respected in another contracting state, i welcome this decision on the accession of morocco to the hague convention. i consider it an important task of the convention to establish a system of cooperation between the contracting states aimed at resolving cases of international child abduction. the accession of morocco to the convention should be welcomed because it will protect many children linked to moroccan communities from the risk of abduction, and i therefore support the report.
written. this document concerns cooperation between states in the case of international child abduction. in fact, when parents come from different countries, it is not uncommon for them to take advantage of loopholes and the lack of clearly defined cooperation between countries in the event of a break-up or divorce to illegally adopt a child. the hague convention therefore seeks to establish clear international practices in such cases. the best interests of the child come first, and that's why i support the report.
written. i voted in favour of the draft legislative resolution of the european parliament on the proposal for a council decision on the declaration by which the member states accept, in the interest of the european union, the accession of armenia to the 1980 hague convention on the civil aspects of international child abduction, as i strongly support the fact that the protection of the rights of children is one of the key priorities of the european union. i also support the efforts made internationally to condemn all forms of violence against children and to reach out to the countries most in need. i therefore believe that it is this convention which can overcome the problems of the legal systems existing in individual member states.
the 1980 hague convention on the civil aspects of international child abduction is an important instrument that has been ratified by all eu member states. the convention establishes a system of cooperation between states aimed at resolving cases of international child abduction. it is common for a child's parents to live apart in different countries, so the biggest problem is the national bias of the legal systems of individual countries. it is possible that the courts in both countries will declare that they have jurisdiction and that custody of the child will be granted to each of the parents who are their nationals. the convention is intended to address such situations at the international level by establishing that the courts and applicable laws are only those of the state of the child's residence. the convention also implements a system that ensures the automatic return of children who have been abducted. the european union now has exclusive competence in this area, as confirmed by the european court of justice. i support the council decision calling on the member states to accept the accession of armenia to the convention, as it is in the interest of the european union, it will contribute to the coherence and uniformity of the application of union law.
written. the disrupted relationship between parents and their divorce pose a major risk to the health of children, not to mention the forcible removal and retention of the child by one of the parents, which is an increased stress factor on the child's psyche. in the event of divorce, it is important that a reliable child protection mechanism exists and functions properly. the 1980 hague convention on the civil aspects of international child abduction is currently the most useful binding legislation for the protection of children when it comes to international child abduction. the accession of armenia to the 1980 hague convention provides for the protection of children in the event of adverse developments in the personal relationships of their parents.
written. i support the report on armenia's accession to the 1980 hague convention on the civil aspects of international child abduction, especially as it is an eastern partnership country. although armenia has ratified the said convention, its application to the eu member states requires the consent of all member states. i think it's in the interest of all of us that the problems that can be caused by the incompatibility of legal systems, if the parents of a child come from two different countries, are adequately regulated. children's rights must come first, and since children have suffered the consequences of legal irregularities, i want to once again express my full support for this report and call on all eu member states to do the same as soon as possible.
written. in order to address the abduction of children cases in armenia and the european union, i support this report for the acceptance of accession to the 1980 hague convention on the civil aspects of international child abduction. eight million children disappear every year in the world, which would mean almost 22,000 children disappearing every day. all our efforts should be directed towards securing a better future for our children, and so this convention, signed by all the member states of the european union, should ensure a secure future and the realisation of all children's rights. as the report notes, the most common problems are the agreement of the court's jurisdiction over the custody of children whose parents are from different countries, as well as the lack of communication between the two countries. the convention is designed to have such cases handled by predetermined courts of competent jurisdiction and to have the prescribed laws applied. the countries that join the convention enter into a common system for dealing with child abduction. if the legal systems differ too much and the country does not have the means to establish a body to enforce the laws and proposals of this convention, the country cannot even access it. the problem is that armenia's accession to the hague convention is so slow.
written. considering that the convention on the civil aspects of international child abduction, signed at the hague on 25 october 1980, seeks to protect children in a manner that ensures the prompt return of children unlawfully removed or retained in a contracting state, and that it seeks to ensure that the rights of care and access to a child under the law of one contracting state are effectively respected in another contracting state, i welcome this decision on the accession of armenia to the hague convention. i believe that the most important task of the convention is to establish a system of cooperation between the contracting states aimed at resolving cases of international child abduction. i consider it positive that the contracting state will designate a central authority to carry out the obligations that the convention provides for such an authority, in particular because the central executive bodies will cooperate with each other and enhance cooperation between competent authorities among the contracting states to ensure the return of the child as soon as possible, and therefore i support the report.
written. - the 1980 hague convention on the civil aspects of international child abduction is a vitally important instrument, as is shown by the fact that it has been ratified by all member states. the convention aims to create a system of good cooperation among all signatories to jointly address this crucial problem. to avoid conflicts between member states, the eu has transferred all competence to itself. the european union has also expressed its support for the adoption of the convention on the rights of the child, which is a key instrument in the fight against child abduction.
written. the european parliament has verified the validity of the election of each member in the 8th convocation. i think it strengthens the legitimacy of all the representatives.
written. i voted in favour of the proposal for a european parliament decision on the validity of the mandate because i believe that it strengthens the democratic principles of the european union and reinforces the principle of transparency. i support the efforts of the competent national authorities, but also of the european parliament, to clarify disputes concerning members. i also agree with the ban on disenfranchisement and the simplification of administrative obstacles arising in the context of electoral cycles. members of the european parliament have a very important duty which must certainly be subject to verification of validity and compliance.
written. i support the report by mr pawel and the provision that the validity of the election and mandate of all members is checked. i believe that this confirms and strengthens the legitimacy of members of the european parliament to represent the citizens and protect their interests on the basis of the votes with which they were elected.
written. i support the report by my colleague, mr pawel svoboda, on the validity check of the mandate of members of the european parliament. following the last european elections in may 2014, the competent services of the ep, in cooperation with the member states, initiated and carried out the procedure for the validation of the mandate of the members and established the list of members of the european parliament whose mandate has been declared valid. elections to the european parliament are also governed by national legislation, with specific national provisions which differ from one country to another, and by european legislation which lays down rules common to all member states. the common rules establish the principle of incompatibility of duties with the mandate of a member of the european parliament. the european parliament is the only directly elected body representing the eu's 500 million inhabitants. meps have an impact on many segments of the daily life of the european public, and the mandate verification procedure is one of the elements that ensures that meps will carry out their duties independently.
written. i have supported the report on the validity of the mandate of the members of the european parliament whose election has been notified by the competent national authorities and who have made written statements relating to their professional activity. since article 7 (1) and (2) of the act of 20 september 1976 clearly defines the duties incompatible with the office of member of the european parliament and requires members to make a detailed statement of their professional activities and any other duties or activities for which remuneration is paid, it is important to identify them and to check that they are all in accordance with the rules of procedure. it is important to note that the report also seeks to address the problem of disenfranchisement.
written. - i support the proposal for a european parliament decision on the validity of the mandate, in accordance with rule 3 of parliament's rules of procedure, which requires the competent authorities of the member states to inform parliament without delay of the names of the elected members so that the mandates of all members can begin at the same time and to declare that they do not have duties incompatible with the said duties. since in some member states it is possible to deprive their citizens of the right to vote if they stay for a certain period in another country, these are considered to be unfair sanctions whose existence is contrary to the fundamental right to freedom of movement within the eu.
written. i support this report on cross-border road safety information exchange as it meets the needs of all participants in this process. as this report has achieved enhanced data protection and better cooperation between member states and the commission with a view to a timely and comprehensive road safety report, i consider it a step forward compared to the previous report.
written. i supported the proposal for a directive of the european parliament and of the council on facilitating the cross-border exchange of information on road safety related traffic offences, because i believe that every driver in the eu should be treated equally if he has committed an offence, regardless of the country he comes from. safety measures related to driving under the influence of drugs, using mobile phones while driving, riding motorcycles without a helmet, driving in restricted lanes are some of the changes that contribute to the goal of reducing deaths and injuries on european roads by 50% by 2020. this proposal for a directive also concerns the kingdom of denmark, the united kingdom of great britain and northern ireland and ireland. in addition to the above countries, the countries of the balkans which are frequently in transit and through which a large number of citizens of the european union move on a daily basis should also be included.
written. i supported the report on the proposal for a directive of the european parliament and of the council on facilitating the cross-border exchange of information on road safety related traffic offences. this proposal for a directive will include three member states (denmark, ireland and the united kingdom) that have not participated in the exchange of traffic safety information until now and will introduce technical changes to the current text (directive 2011/82/eu). i believe that this directive will encourage the member states of the european union to exchange information on traffic offences and to encourage sanctions in order to ensure greater safety on european roads.
written. the adoption of the eu directive on the cross-border exchange of information on road safety related traffic offences is just another important step towards greater road safety in europe. it is a success in the european union's continuous efforts to improve road safety, road infrastructure, and to provide better training for drivers. the goal is to halve the number of road deaths by 2020 compared to 2011. the directive will ensure that drivers are treated equally, as reckless driving that directly endangers other road users is equally dangerous regardless of national borders. the proposal covers many offences such as driving under the influence of drugs, using a mobile phone while driving or riding a motorcycle without a helmet. the previous directive was annulled by the european court of justice because it was based on an incorrect legal basis. the rapid response and adaptation by the european parliament guarantees further road safety and the protection of life. the latest data protection provisions have also been implemented.
written. i support the new rules on the exchange of information on border traffic which allow access to national vehicle registration data for the purpose of tracing persons responsible for non-compliance: speeding, failure to use seat belts, driving under the influence of alcohol, driving under the influence of drugs, not wearing a safety helmet and other information which i believe their exchange will contribute to road safety. we must not allow repeat offenders to repeat themselves on the roads of other member states, but we must all work together to ensure the highest possible level of road safety and protection. in particular, i support the provisions that improve data protection, call for cooperation between member states and the commission to ensure a timely and comprehensive report on road safety and commit the commission to consider the directive and submit a new legislative proposal to improve road safety by november 2016.
written. i support the report on the proposal for a directive of the european parliament and of the council on the facilitation of the cross-border exchange of information on road safety related traffic offences. the commission's investigations as far back as 2007 pointed to the fact that in the case of traffic offences the percentage of foreign nationals is higher than at national level. one of the main reasons for this was the lack of data on foreigners and the impossibility of sending and enforcing penalties, especially in the case of traffic cameras. with the introduction of directive 2011/82/eu, positive results were visible from day one and indicated that the eu is on track to achieve its target of reducing road fatalities by 40% by 2020. however, a new directive with certain amendments is needed to further increase efficiency. one reason for the improvement of international road safety is the significant reduction in infrastructure investment due to the economic crisis, which has compromised road safety. i fully support the amendments made to the data protection, traffic safety and access laws of denmark, the uk and ireland and therefore support this report.
written. road accidents are the seventh leading cause of death in europe. the commission has also been asked to provide a report on the implementation of the directive on the protection of the health of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work. for the above reason, i have supported a legal instrument that will contribute to saving human lives. by adopting this approach, europe as a whole will have a direct impact on preventing 300-400 road deaths per year. the seriousness of this shortcoming is shown by the results of a study carried out by the european commission back in 2007, which showed that in that year there was a higher number of traffic offences committed by persons who were not resident in the country where the offence was committed than by those who were residents. the reason lies in the fact that the authorities were unable to hand over the offence to the person who committed the offence due to the lack of access to the home address of the same. the exchange of information is a key prerequisite for achieving the common objective of reducing fatalities on european roads by 50% by 2020. the directive has been revised several times and the new directive is expected to be implemented in the member states before 2016. for croatia, as a transition country sharing a geographical and traffic entity with states, some of which are also candidate countries, the smooth exchange of information on traffic offences is of paramount importance for its road safety.
written. the text of this proposal is the same as that of directive 2011/82/eu on the cross-border exchange of information in the field of road safety relating to traffic offences (adopted by a large majority in parliament and unanimously by the council in 2011), with the exception of two significant changes. firstly, there is a new legal basis, which means that a number of technical changes need to be made in the text, and secondly the fact that the legal basis has now been changed in the circulation, which means that the scope of the directive needs to be extended to cover the three member states that were not previously covered by it. the system for the exchange of information between member states and their authorities is intended by the directive to improve road safety. the directive is being transposed into national law in 20 of the 25 member states concerned and initial indicators indicate that the new system is beginning to have the desired effect. denmark, the united kingdom and ireland, which had previously decided not to participate, have no reserves and are not asking for anything more in the transition period than other member states have had. i support the directive, especially as it contributes to reducing eu road deaths by 50% by 2020.
written. - i agree with the report and its two significant changes. they concern the introduction of a new legal basis, which implies the implementation of technical changes throughout the text, and the extension of the directive in such a way that it is also applicable to the three member states not covered by it until now, namely the united kingdom, denmark and ireland. we want to ensure a higher level of protection for all drivers in the eu, especially in terms of facilitating and exchanging cross-border information on road safety related traffic offences. we also want to reduce the number of fatalities on european roads, and according to some indicators, this directive could reduce that number by up to 50% in the next 5 years. in this way, we want to encourage cooperation between member states so that together we can make the greatest possible contribution to road safety.
written. i supported this report because the period since the implementation of the directive shows a positive trend in the decline in the number of road traffic offences committed on the territory of a member state by nationals whose car is registered in another member state. the applications used in the implementation of the directive must allow for the simple, fast and efficient exchange of vehicle registration data without creating additional administrative burdens. i am positive that each member state decides independently whether to initiate proceedings against certain traffic offences and informs the other member state in which the vehicle is registered accordingly. the new measures facilitating the exchange of data on offenders and the expansion of the list of offences that are the most common causes of road accidents, many of which result in serious injuries and fatalities, are welcome as they will have a positive impact on the safety of citizens on the roads.
written. i voted in favour of the draft legislative resolution of the european parliament on the draft council decision on the conclusion of the sustainable fisheries partnership agreement between the european union and the republic of senegal and its implementation protocol, as the agreement establishes a renewed framework for cooperation between the eu and senegal. in this context, it is important to ensure the sustainable exploitation of fisheries resources and to provide support and satisfactory conditions for the local fisheries sector. the commission has also concluded that the senegalese authorities have not provided any evidence that the senegalese authorities have been engaged in illegal fishing in the senegalese fishing zone. the commission notes that the union industry has not been able to fully benefit from the measures in force since the imposition of the definitive anti-dumping duty. the establishment of a surveillance system to support local authorities in preventing illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing is also important.
written. the european commission has negotiated on behalf of the european union the renewal of the agreement between the republic of senegal and the european economic community on fishing off the coast of senegal which entered into force on 1 june 1981. the new draft agreement and the protocol were initialled by the negotiators on 25 april 2014 at the end of the negotiations. the new agreement repeals and replaces the existing agreement and covers a period of five years from its entry into force. the financial statement defines a total amount of eur 9,6 million for commitments and payments for the years 2014-2018. i supported the report on the agreement and partnership on sustainable fisheries between the european union and the republic of senegal, as it will improve cooperation between the eu and senegal to promote a sustainable fisheries policy and exploit fisheries resources in senegalese fishing zones in the interests of both parties.
written. although the agreement between the european union and the republic of senegal was signed in 1981, the protocol has not been in force since 2006. i therefore support the renewal of the agreement initiated last year and the agreement in that it meets the objectives of senegal's national fisheries policy, in particular the need of the republic of senegal for additional scientific research, surveillance and the fight against overfishing, support for small-scale fishermen and sustainable fishing to enable the recovery of the endangered ecosystem. in all these areas, the eu can use its experience to help achieve the common long-term goal of sustainable fisheries and the protection of ecosystem biodiversity.
written. i support the recommendation on the draft council decision on the conclusion of the sustainable fisheries partnership agreement between the european union and the republic of senegal and its implementation protocol. the eu-senegal cooperation is mutually beneficial in several respects. firstly, it is an opportunity to create new jobs, both for the citizens of the member states and for the senegalese. the commission has also taken note of the fact that the senegalese authorities have not yet provided any information on the level of the aid granted to the beneficiaries. the commission notes that the senegalese authorities have not provided any evidence that the senegalese authorities have been able to establish that the senegalese fishing fleet is not in compliance with the senegalese legislation. the european market would be supplied with quality free-range fish. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's fisheries policy and will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's fisheries policy. in line with all the above and the possibilities of future cooperation on other forms of fishing, i am convinced that the recommendation on the draft council decision with the implementation of the administrative framework and control activities could be implemented appropriately.
written. i support the agreement establishing a strategic fisheries partnership between the european union and the republic of senegal as it provides an updated framework taking into account the priorities of the reformed common fisheries policy and its external dimension. the protocol provides for new fishing opportunities for european union vessels in senegalese waters taking into account available scientific assessments, in particular those of the committee for eastern central atlantic fisheries (cecaf), and respecting the best scientific advice and recommendations of the international commission for the conservation of atlantic tunas (iccat) within the limits of the available surplus. the strengthening of cooperation between the european union and the republic of senegal to support a sustainable fisheries policy and the responsible exploitation of fisheries resources in the senegalese fishing zones is in the interest of both parties and opens up new perspectives for responsible and sustainable fishing necessary to conserve resources for future generations, and i therefore support the report.
written. - i support this agreement because it is positive for europe and the republic of senegal and brings numerous benefits to both sides. this way, the exploitation of fishery resources in the senegalese fishing zone is expanded, we are allowed to enter waters under their sovereignty for fishing purposes. the european market will be supplied with quality fishery products in accordance with the categories mentioned, which are based on current stocks and whose expansion is not excluded in the future. the agreement also contributes to the development of the local fishing industry and is based on the best scientific assessments of the eastern central atlantic fisheries commission (cecaf).
written. i support the sustainable fisheries partnership agreement between the european union and the republic of senegal which emphasises the long-term interests in achieving the objectives of sustainable fisheries, restoring ecosystems and stocks, and combating illegal and unregulated fishing. i consider the agreement to be useful because, in addition to the financial resources allocated by the union to pay the annual fee, which ensure investment in the fisheries fund, it also sets quotas to prevent overfishing of tuna and mackerel. i attach particular importance to the provision that vessels holding fishing licences must ensure a workforce representation of 20% of senegalese nationals or of acp nationals, thereby also achieving economic growth on both sides and laying a sound foundation for the strategic partnership. investments in the fisheries industry of west african countries, as well as in all other coastal countries with which the eu cooperates on sustainable fisheries, must aim at strengthening the fleet of small-scale fishermen whose fishing practices represent a sustainable way of managing natural resources without significant adverse impacts on the sea. the commission has also proposed to extend the scope of the measure to include the fishing industry, which is a key sector in the fisheries sector.
written. i welcome the decision of the united states senate committee on intelligence oversight to release the summary of its report on the cia's detention and interrogation program. i want to express my dismay and strongly condemn the horrible interrogation techniques that have characterized these illegal counterterrorism operations, especially given the u.s. senate's fundamental conclusion that terrorist attacks were not prevented by information obtained through the violent methods of the cia. the continued violation of fundamental rights has been accompanied by a climate of impunity in the implementation of the cia programme, as evidenced by the extensive surveillance programmes of the us national security agency and the secret services of various member states.
written. i voted in favour of the joint motion for a resolution on the us senate report on torture by the cia, because i am deeply convinced that all investigations and prosecutions of all criminal acts, including those suspected of terrorism, should be conducted in accordance with the highest democratic standards, respect for the rule of law and respect for human rights. of course, terrorism is a major threat to civilization and security, but it must be fought with all available mechanisms in a way that is controlled by democratic institutions and does not threaten the respect of citizens' rights. i agree that counter-terrorism measures and respect for human rights are not contradictory objectives, that the international fight against terrorism must be conducted with full respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms and democratic and judicial oversight, and that cooperation between the us and the eu is important in this field. i support a multilateral approach with a determined cooperation with the united states in the global fight against terrorism. i condemn extreme forms of interrogation that are prohibited by international law. i welcome the report of the us senate and the action of president obama as a positive step forward in promoting a more humane treatment of prisoners and agree that member states are strongly cooperating and exchanging information on intelligence and security issues with full democratic oversight guaranteed.
written. the united states senate is compiling a report on the use of various forms of torture of detainees between 2001 and 2006 by the central intelligence agency (cia). the report originally ran to 6,000 pages, and in december 2014, the senate select committee on intelligence (ssci) released an executive summary of the report. the report details the actions of cia officials, including torturing prisoners, giving false or misleading information about classified cia programs, and refusing to allow government oversight and internal criticism. the existence of previously unknown detainees was also revealed, the fact that more detainees were subjected to much harsher 'treatment' than previously reported and that many more torture methods were used than were known. it concluded that the torture of prisoners did not help to gain cooperation with the prisoners and that the program damaged the international reputation of the united states. i support this report because violence and any form of torture is not a civilized and socially acceptable way of obtaining information, and such an act is contrary to basic human rights.
torture and policies that support torture as such are not acceptable or desirable in modern society. the united states senate recently released a long-awaited report on the cia's use of torture. i welcome the senate's initiative and the report as a strong democratic process that has presented to the public classified information that allows for the determination of whether there has been a breach of internationally accepted conventions and human rights law with respect to the cia's conduct. it is imperative that the whole case be brought to light so that the public is informed of the facts and not of half-truths, because this is a system whose primary function is to protect the safety of citizens and in which citizens should have confidence. when it comes to other human lives and the violation of fundamental human rights enshrined in un conventions, in this case the convention against torture in particular, it is vitally important to see that counter-terrorism measures are complemented by respect for human rights, and i therefore call for continued committed cooperation between the us and the eu in this regard.
written. i strongly condemn the horrific interrogation techniques that have characterized these illegal counter-terrorist operations. i believe that the continuing violation of fundamental rights has been facilitated by the climate of impunity in the implementation of the cia programme, as confirmed by the extensive surveillance programmes of the us national security agency and the secret services of various member states. they are concerned about the obstacles encountered by national parliaments and faced by judicial investigations into the participation of certain member states in the cia programme, the abuse of the institute of state secrets and the unfounded classification of information which has resulted in the suspension of prosecutions, allowing perpetrators of human rights violations to go de facto unpunished. i support the call for the adoption of an internal eu strategy on fundamental rights and the call for the commission to propose the adoption of that strategy and the related action plan, which is why i supported this resolution.
written. i supported the motion for a resolution tabled following the statements by the european council and the commission on the us senate summary report on cia torture, because i believe in a legitimate and effective policy based on the rule of law. the eu is founded on a commitment to democracy, human rights and fundamental freedoms and respect for human dignity and international law. this is why i find the cia's us-led extradition, illegal and arbitrary detention, torture and other forms of abuse unacceptable. however, given that the eu-us relationship has always been based on strong partnership and cooperation, there is a need to find common ground also on counter-terrorism, which is also supported by the 2009 joint statement by the us and the eu that counter-terrorism must be in line with human and humanitarian rights. the fight against terrorism requires a multilateral approach, which is why the global counter-terrorism alliance is of paramount importance. i welcome the positive action of president obama who has issued executive orders to prohibit torture and the humane treatment of detainees and shows continued commitment to closing the prison facility at guantanamo bay. i therefore encourage the security agencies and intelligence services of the member states to enhance cooperation and exchange of information, but under appropriate internal, executive, judicial and independent parliamentary oversight of their activities.
written. i voted in favour of the resolution on the us senate report on torture of prisoners by cia agents, because i believe that in the era of globalisation, a common approach at international level is indispensable to successfully counter the creation and spread of a terrorist network that is itself becoming global. the threat of modern terrorism is a global threat, and it is no longer focused on the national security of individual states or the interests of allies, but has taken on a broader scale. we must not allow ourselves to use the methods of those whose behaviour we condemn in confronting terrorist threats and suspects for whom there is substantial evidence that they have committed a terrorist act, or states that sponsor terrorism. therefore, i fully agree with the claims that the international fight against terrorism and cooperation in preventing further terrorist attacks must be primarily consistent with respect for fundamental civilization values such as human rights and the protection of the security of citizens, and that it must be based on valid legal evidence in order to defeat terrorism within the rule of law.
written. terrorism and violent extremism are among the main threats to our security and freedoms, as the recent terrorist attacks in france have clearly shown. although croatia has fortunately not faced terrorist attacks for a long time, we must show solidarity with the countries that have. perhaps no one wants to hear this now, but i believe that we must not give in to pressure and in the name of counterterrorism significantly restrict basic civil liberties in europe. i say to those who advocate the re-establishment of borders between eu countries that this would show the terrorists that they have won. at the same time, i call on all member states to prevent the movement of persons suspected of terrorism by strengthening controls at external borders, more systematic and effective checks of travel documents, combating illicit arms trafficking and the illegal use of identity, and identifying risk areas.
written. as we are faced with the challenges of terrorism taking on a whole new form, unfortunately marked by the events in paris last month, i welcome this ep resolution as it provides an answer to many questions and challenges that exist in the new circumstances. terrorism cannot be viewed in isolation, considering its causes, its methods, and its manifestations. today's terrorism, besides religious radicalization, has its patterns in the problems created by the immigration process, the impossibility and insufficient integration, poverty, inadequate education, the impossibility of adequate economic human prosperity. it's not just imported, but it's also about people who are grown up, born in a western european democratic society. indoctrination and promotion rests on the latest technologies of modern computer communication where it is no longer local but global. the process of going to temporary warfare and the impact of such battlefields and prisons on the recruitment of new terrorists is also special. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the eu-us joint action on the prevention and management of conflicts of interest, including the implementation of the eu-us joint action on the prevention and management of conflicts of interest, and the implementation of the eu-us joint action on the prevention and management of conflicts of interest. this resolution also addresses the illicit arms trade and illicit financial flows that finance terrorist actions. i consider it particularly important that the level of free movement of citizens within the schengen area which has been achieved should not be restricted.
the eu and its member states have a shared responsibility to ensure the safety and freedom of european citizens and to take all appropriate measures to prevent acts that endanger life. in order to achieve this, counter-terrorism measures should be based on the principles of necessity, proportionality and respect for fundamental rights and be consistent with the rule of law and international obligations. terrorism is a global threat that needs to be addressed at local, national, european and global levels in order to strengthen the security of our citizens, in order to defend the fundamental values of freedom, democracy and human rights. the security situation in europe has changed dramatically in recent years, mainly due to new conflicts and upheavals in the eu's immediate neighbourhood, the rapid development of new technologies, and the worrying increase in radicalisation leading to violence and terrorism, and the need to improve, intensify and accelerate global police information exchange is underlined. the eu's comprehensive counter-terrorism strategy must make full use of its foreign and development policies to combat terrorism and i therefore support the motion for a resolution.
written. the recent terrorist attacks in paris are a reminder that terrorism is a constant enemy in europe. for those of us who live and work on the foundations of freedom, tolerance and democracy, it is unthinkable to experience such manifestations of terror in our own community. in this situation, more than ever, we must join forces and work together to find a way to minimize the threat of terrorist attacks. it is important that we all become aware that terrorism has been happening for years in iraq, syria and nigeria where christians are being killed, that it has been happening for months in ukraine, that it has recently happened in france where in addition to attacks on journalists members of the jewish community have been killed, and in this way it becomes clear that terrorists attack those who think and believe differently from them. in two months, the same thing could happen in your country. it is imperative that all countries join urgently in counterterrorism action. europe needs tougher controls at its external borders, it needs to make use of all available modern technologies while respecting the protection of personal data in order to prevent the migration of terrorists and their activity, and it needs to cooperate with non-eu countries. it is our duty to protect all the inhabitants of the european union from terrorism, and to punish those who threaten their security with the severest possible punishment.
in new york, terrorists attacked tall buildings on september 11, 2001, and last month in paris, the editorial office of the satirical newspaper charlie hebdo - a symbol of the high spirituality of a democratic society - was fired upon. they are designed to take the lives of those the criminals fear most, people of free, critical and fearless spirit. the terrorists, obviously, did not choose their victims "blindly". the reaction of a democratic society, therefore, despite its deep pain and dismay, must not be one of blindness, but one of a long-standing need for the democratic world to deal more effectively with the root causes of the evil of modern terrorism. it has grown in the dark crevices and neglected corners of our progress. repression should therefore be only one dimension of this confrontation. that is why i support this resolution of the european parliament as a united response of colleagues, regardless of their political affiliation, which offers concrete responses to the various causes of the problems we face, rather than suppressing them.
written. i supported the joint resolution on counter-terrorism measures as terrorism, radicalisation and violent extremism are certainly among the main threats to our security and our freedoms. the terrorist attacks and violent extremism that have hit several member states hard in recent decades, and which we have witnessed in the wake of the recent tragic events in paris, are indicative of the fact that the european union is under a constant and growing terrorist threat, which targets not only people but also the values and freedoms on which the eu is founded. i personally condemn any act of terrorism, the promotion of terrorism, the glorification of those who participate in it as well as the advocacy of violent ideologies. the primary objective in the period ahead is to combat cross-border and organised crime, including terrorism, and to strengthen the eu member states' capacity for risk assessment and crisis resilience. the commission shall be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 26 to supplement this regulation by laying down detailed rules for the application of this regulation. i therefore welcome the call for the european external action service (eeas) to adopt an eu foreign policy strategy to combat international terrorism. we all need to be involved in solving the crisis, and as a representative from croatia, i believe we can offer good examples of the model of integration of fellow citizens of the islamic faith.
written. countering terrorism is a major challenge for the european union as a whole, which must join forces to combat social violence and hatred, while ensuring the safety of all its citizens and respecting their human and civil rights. we are witnessing an increase in social intolerance, such as racism, xenophobia and islamophobia, which are fuelling the achievements of pluralism and social tolerance. we must work towards achieving a comprehensive social progress in which all citizens are involved. i believe that in future the member states of the european union should make a greater contribution to social inclusion through their economic, educational and social policies, ensuring a level playing field for all groups in society. since september 11, 2001, the european union has introduced nearly 239 counterterrorism measures. repressive measures, controls on the personal data and movements of our citizens can be counterproductive, which is why i believe that democratic and judicial oversight of counter-terrorism policies, standardised controls on exports of military technology and equipment and good cooperation with europol, eurojust and other intelligence services are needed. a coherent counter-terrorism strategy should focus on monitoring real threats and provide security services with the means and resources to respond to specific threats and to achieve early detection of specific threats. it is necessary to strengthen political dialogue with third world countries with the aim of ensuring the security of our citizens without violating their privacy and their fundamental rights.
written. i support this resolution whose comprehensive measures, from tackling the root causes of terrorism and radicalisation leading to violent extremism to adopting an eu foreign policy strategy to combat international terrorism, form a well-rounded and effective whole. terrorism is a global threat that needs to be addressed at local, national, european and global levels in order to increase the security of our citizens, protect fundamental values, freedoms, democracy and human rights and respect international law. we face a serious and growing threat from so-called 'eu foreign fighters', i.e. individuals who travel to a country where they are neither resident nor a national with the aim of committing or planning terrorist acts or participating in terrorist training. member states themselves must make the best use of existing platforms, databases and alert systems at european level to prevent the movement of persons suspected of terrorist offences, and by reinforcing external border controls, more systematic and effective travel document checks, combating illicit arms trafficking and identity theft.
written. - the european union and the member states must take responsibility for safeguarding the security and freedom of european citizens. i support the adoption of these measures because terrorism in all its forms must be strongly condemned and acts that endanger human lives in any way must be prevented. the measures need to be based on the principles of necessity and proportionality, while still respecting the rule of law and international obligations. the fact that terrorism and its promotion are on the rise is a daily reality and calls for increased security measures through increased border controls and more systematic checks on travel documents. it is important to encourage more intensive exchange of police data at global level. member states should closely monitor developments within their own borders in order to be able to prevent the rise of fundamentalism through preaching and hate speech in a timely manner. we can counter fundamentalism by joining forces with the muslim community and establishing better dialogue.
written. europe must send clear signals about its priorities, among which the protection of the freedom and living space of its citizens takes a special place. we have witnessed recent terrorist attacks that have left a deep mark on our societies, primarily through the spread of fear and insecurity. i therefore take this opportunity to reiterate the need to strengthen communication at all levels of government, with particular emphasis on cross-border cooperation between competent national authorities, in the development and adoption of new counter-terrorism measures. the best counter-terrorism measures alone are not enough if they are not effectively implemented. as a representative from croatia, the country with the longest external border of the eu, i hereby appeal for european support in the implementation of proactive control, surveillance and protection of both land and sea borders of the republic of croatia.
written. i support the renewal of the mandate of the internet governance forum (igf) because it has really contributed to facilitating an open and transparent debate between participants from different spheres of interest in the past, supported by the european parliament sending its delegations to the igf meetings. the sustainability, security and stability of internet governance will continue to be of paramount importance in the future, and the european parliament should continue to give its full support to this. i think that the european parliament should continue to send its delegations to igf meetings in the future and thus continue to contribute to the stability and security of internet use. i also welcome the process of genuine globalisation of the internet corporation for assigned names and numbers (icann) and the creation of a new governance model, and i expect and hope for a stronger involvement of the european union in this process.
written. i voted for the european parliament resolution on the renewal of the mandate of the internet governance forum because the internet is no longer just a product or a service, but a part of our lives. i believe that because of the importance that the internet has within our community, we need to establish a fifth freedom, namely digital freedom. i believe that the mandate of the internet governance forum needs not only to be renewed, but its role in enabling it to work effectively needs to be strengthened. i believe it is particularly important to warn of all the dangers of the internet, and to establish a clear and strong system that will be able to counter the various types of abuse that are unfortunately very present in the cyber world.
the internet governance forum's mission is to foster dialogue among all actors to help advance the social, technical, economic aspects of internet governance, and to strive to use the internet as a neutral platform to ensure freedom of information and expression. i supported the report on the renewal of the mandate of the internet governance forum, which aims not only to promote the internet as a global, social, democratic and transparent resource but also to promote the economic importance of the internet. in 2010, the internet economy accounted for 3,8% of the european union's gdp and is expected to increase to 5,7% in 2016, confirming the importance of the internet for the economic growth of the european union.
the internet as the most powerful medium of today and the future is advancing in development in all directions, and today it is the most active social platform for discussion on many issues affecting our society. its power to drive change and its significant impact on the geopolitical landscape of the world has been demonstrated time and again. as the only way to address the issue of how to govern such a complex and fast-changing platform, which involves a wide range of actors in its work, i support the renewal of the mandate of the internet governance forum. the commission has also provided a number of recommendations to the relevant stakeholders, including the following: without the forum's work, there is a risk that things will get out of hand, that the internet will be left to the will of individual states and will become something that does not reflect the position of a united europe on the freedom and independence of information sources, respect for human rights and freedom of speech. the commission should also continue to monitor the implementation of the union's policy on cybercrime, in particular by ensuring that the union's cybercrime prevention and detection systems are updated and enhanced. the further development of the forum can contribute to the development of a common governance policy at global level and ensure adequate control of internet services, which is in the interest of all of us.
written. i fully support the renewal of the mandate of the internet governance forum, which in its work since 2005 has enabled open and transparent discussions among stakeholders, many of whom had not cooperated before. the european parliament has also been actively involved in all this by sending delegations to all the forum's annual sessions. i believe that the european parliament, as the only body directly elected by citizens, should continue to participate actively in the work of the forum and thus contribute constructively and effectively to the international process of forming a coherent and inclusive eu approach, together with other stakeholders, the european commission and the eu member states. at a time when the internet has become the main medium that in many ways facilitates the lives of citizens on a daily basis, the european union must unite to assert itself as a global trendsetter and an active participant in global internet governance processes. the european internet governance forum is the best way to enable the eu to play such a role.
written. i support the motion for a resolution tabled following the statement by the commission under rule 123 (2) of the rules of procedure on the renewal of the mandate of the internet governance forum. this recommendation aims to facilitate the expansion of internet access at global level, the maintenance of the internet as an open and shared tool at global level, non-discriminatory access to knowledge and more transparent and accountable internet governance through the participation of a greater number of stakeholders. the economic and social importance of the right to privacy online and control over one's own personal data should be emphasised. this is important for individuals, but also for the growing segment of internet companies. i reject the idea of government control of the internet and its mass surveillance. censorship and similar restrictions are preventing the achievement of the objective of this proposal, which is to connect citizens worldwide. the commission should also be able to provide the necessary legal support to the member states in order to ensure that the rules on the protection of personal data are applied in a uniform manner. in order to internationalise the core functions of the internet and internet organisations, which is further supported by the us through the globalisation of the functions of iana, i support the continued funding of the igf and its place on the list of priorities of the eu institutions.
written. the internet governance forum (igf) aims to fulfil its mandate given by the world summit on the information society (wsis) in terms of convening a forum for democratic and transparent dialogue. given that the mandate of the igf was extended by the un general assembly on 20 december 2010 for a further five years, i consider that the igf has fulfilled its purpose and function. i believe that the european parliament should continue to participate in the meetings of the internet governance forum in the future, but with an emphasis on substantive and essential objectives, and that is why i voted against the amendment.
written. following major meat scandals and fraud, there was a need for a legal solution that would make such cases impossible or at least difficult. that's why we need to send a signal to the european commission to propose new regulations. a declaration that does not state, for example, that lasagna produced in country a contains meat from country b is unfair to consumers and opens the door to all kinds of fraud. such a situation can be resolved relatively easily and without great cost to the producer. after all, i believe that consumer trust is invaluable. furthermore, labelling of the country of origin of meat will make it easier for national authorities to combat food fraud and to punish the perpetrators. i think it's in the interest of european consumers, 90% of them want to know where the meat they eat comes from. the european union's single market creates many choices for consumers and producers, but it also sometimes opens holes that are exploited by reckless speculators. such loopholes should be closed and citizens' health and consumer rights further protected.
written. i voted in favour of the european parliament resolution on country of origin labelling of meat in processed foods, as this is definitely the best way to protect the interests of consumers. i would like to point out that the labelling of foodstuffs containing processed meat should clearly indicate whether the animal has consumed gmo feed and whether the meat is also from cloned animals. as it is important for croatian consumers in particular to know whether meat comes from neighbouring countries, i took this as an additional motive for voting in favour of this resolution. otherwise, i consider that the argument of additional cost is a redundant argument because the labels already contain all the information on the composition of the processed product, its caloric value and other information, and it is therefore necessary to add the country of origin of the meat in the processed products.
written. the experience and practices we are exposed to on a daily basis in croatia when it comes to imported meat make us cautious. the commission has already proposed that the european parliament and the council should be consulted on the proposal for a directive on the protection of animals used for scientific purposes. the lack of some of this information allows the manipulation of the data on the first freezing of the product, because, for example, meat used in processing may be defrosted, processed and its age hidden behind the declaration of the date of production of the finished product, without any indication that this meat has already spent a certain number of years in the refrigerator or even been frozen and defrosted several times. the information on the labelling of other processed products containing meat may be manipulated in the same way. this resolution is therefore a step forward in tackling the unfair trading practices and illegal activities to which we are exposed, but also in supporting local agricultural producers and consumers.
written. as many as 90% of our citizens want and believe they have the right to be informed about the origin of the meat in the processed food they consume. consumers want to be informed about what they are consuming, regardless of what a slight increase in the price of the product might mean. i fully support their wish and am glad that the majority of my colleagues in the european parliament have decided to do the same. i believe that the current system of regulation is inadequate. under existing rules, the country of origin is required for fresh beef and veal (since 2002), and from april this year the labelling will be extended to some other types of fresh meat, such as pigmeat, lamb and poultry. but since there is no such obligation for processed food, and it is precisely this type of food that accounts for 30 to 50% of total meat consumption, i welcome this resolution. the labelling of the origin of meat used as an ingredient in food will allow for better traceability in the food supply chain, create more stable links between suppliers and meat processors and increase the attention of food business operators when choosing their suppliers and products. we need to empower consumers to make informed decisions based on transparency throughout the food chain.
written. i support the motion for a resolution on the indication of the country of origin of meat in processed food. it is estimated that 30% to 50% of the total meat is processed into meat ingredients for food. a 2013 survey showed that over 90% of consumers want to know the origin of the meat in processed products. following major scandals involving spoiled meat and horsemeat sold as beef, there was a need for a legal solution to prevent such incidents and to ensure greater transparency in the food chain. this would improve the information available to european consumers and restore their confidence. the share of smes in the production of food containing meat is 90%. they play a special role in generating growth and jobs, contribute to the competitiveness of the european economy and are committed to safe and quality food. i believe that creating a level playing field for stakeholders in the sector is key and that labelling the origin of meat used as an ingredient in food will allow for better traceability in the food supply chain, create more stable links between suppliers and meat processors and increase the attention of food business operators. the only problem i see is the possible price effects on both consumers and producers and i believe that further research is needed in order to get a clearer picture of this issue.
written. as a permanent member of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, i attach particular importance to the quality and safety of the food consumed by the citizens of the european union. for this reason, i supported the proposal to indicate the country of origin of meat in processed foods. the commission should also be able to assess the impact of the measures on the health of consumers, in particular on the health of consumers, by examining the impact of the measures on the health of consumers and on the health of consumers. in addition, almost 30-50% of meat is processed into those meat products and processing plants, which further reinforces the need for better control of the origin of the raw material. the commission should be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 264 concerning the establishment of a system for the identification of origin of meat and meat products. in the past few years we have witnessed unacceptable and unacceptable cases where horsemeat has been sold as beef. the lack of transparency on this issue not only undermines human health, but also the fundamental civil and consumer rights of eu citizens. we cannot say with certainty that labeling processed foods will absolutely stop such fraud, but it will significantly reduce it. the greater and better information of citizens about the origin of their food should always be of paramount value to us.
written. - the origin of meat is a major concern for consumers, as shown by the fact that 90% of those questioned consider that origin labelling is important. there is concern about the potential impact of food fraud on consumer confidence. better monitoring within the production chain is needed to create a more stable link between suppliers and processors and thus increase business awareness. this would lead to greater transparency and better consumer information. however, the principle of proportionality and the way in which excessive costs and excessive administrative burdens that can lead to an increase in the price of the product should be avoided should also be taken into account, but if i have to choose and decide, and this directive is obviously going in that direction, then i am voting for the health of european citizens, and therefore also croatian citizens.
written. i welcome the fact that the joint parliamentary assembly, as one of the joint institutions resulting from the cotonou agreement, continues to provide the framework for an open, democratic and comprehensive dialogue between members of the european parliament and parliamentarians from the acp countries (african, caribbean and pacific countries) on the implementation of that agreement, including the monitoring of development cooperation under the european development fund and the conclusion and implementation of the economic partnership agreement. at the same time, i express my deep concern at the increasingly difficult political and humanitarian situation in several acp countries and regions, in particular as a result of the ebola epidemic. although the worst is over, it seems that the crisis is far from over, and the indirect consequences will be felt for years to come. the european union and the rest of the developed world must help the acp countries affected to rebuild their economies and health infrastructure in order to avoid similar future threats as much as possible.
written. i supported the acp-eu joint parliamentary assembly's work report as it contributes to the development goals for these countries and reflects the needs of the acp population. this is an excellent opportunity for cooperation for the european union, and a mechanism for dialogue on issues such as poverty reduction, respect for fundamental human rights, the right to access basic public services, the building of lasting peace and security, economic development, and political stability of the acp countries. these are just some of the needs and interests of the people of these areas, supported by the cotonou agreement as far back as 2000. the progress of these countries is something the eu can help with its cooperation.
written. i support the report on the work of the acp-eu joint parliamentary assembly, as cooperation between meps and acp parliamentary representatives is important for the process of democratisation, respect for human rights and development of the acp states. the parties shall cooperate in the implementation of the agreement.
written. i support the annual report on the work of the joint parliamentary assembly of the european union and the african, caribbean and pacific group of states, as well as the work of this body. i take this opportunity to call for further efforts and for the achievement of the body's strategic approach in the areas of human rights protection and in the context of the negotiations on the post-2015 development goals. the joint parliamentary assembly of the european union and the african, caribbean and pacific group of states should continue to be a forum for open, frank and constructive political dialogue. this report correctly recognises the challenges facing the joint assembly, but also the opportunities offered by the post-cotonou negotiations, and for this reason i once again express my support for it.
written. i support the report on the work of the joint parliamentary assembly of the african, caribbean and pacific states and the eu. it is a single multilateral, interparliamentary assembly established under the cotonou international agreement, which aims at reducing and finally eradicating poverty and sustainable economic development. in order to lay the foundations for lasting peace and security and the democratic and political security of the acp states, coordination, coherence and complementarity between the common institutions should be ensured. i therefore welcome the call of the assembly to strengthen the dialogue on human rights in line with the un declaration and to include this topic as a regular item on the agenda of the assembly, alongside the topic of non-discrimination on grounds of sexual orientation and gender identity. i also stress the important role of the national parliaments of the acp countries, local authorities and non-state actors in the preparation and monitoring of country and regional strategy papers and in the monitoring of the implementation of the european development fund. i also consider it important to work with civil society organisations active in individual countries to gain a more detailed insight into the issue through their experiences and activities. the assembly should continue to proactively monitor the political, economic and social development of the acp countries while promoting the development goals of human rights and democracy based on the rule of law, transparency and accountable government, which are key elements of sustainable development.
written. although i agree with many points in the report on the work of the acp-eu joint parliamentary assembly, i abstained from voting. the reason for this is that paragraphs 1, 15 and 16 of the report use terminology and positions which are not universally accepted in the eu member states either, and which i believe should not be emphasised in the dialogue with our acp partners either.
written. - i support the report on the work of the acp-eu joint parliamentary assembly because i want to continue to provide a framework open to democratic and comprehensive cooperation between the representatives of the european parliament and the parliamentarians from the acp countries. it is important to eliminate discrimination on grounds of sexual orientation, gender identity, religion, belief, age and disability in acp countries. the parties shall cooperate in the implementation of the agreement. the needs of the acp population are poverty reduction, respect for fundamental human and other economic rights, such as the right to food and access to basic public services. for these reasons, workshops should be organised, followed by the appointment of at least two permanent co-rapporteurs on policy coherence in the interest of development, who would work closely with the european parliament's permanent rapporteur. this would create a stronger link between the organisations.
written. i support the report on the work of the acp-eu joint parliamentary assembly and believe that the assembly must continue its efforts to implement the priorities of development cooperation between the eu and the acp group of countries in order to prevent the further deepening of the humanitarian and political crisis. today, more than a billion people in the world live below the poverty line, and it is unacceptable that the international community, with the instruments at its disposal, should turn a blind eye to the basic human needs. i believe that issues such as access to safe drinking water and sanitation, meeting minimum sanitation standards, eradicating hunger and poverty, and respecting basic human rights are of crucial importance in the 21st century. effective multilateral cooperation in achieving sustainable development and the inclusion of poor, fragile and vulnerable countries in the world economy can only be achieved through the full and transparent mobilisation of available resources and detailed reporting on where and how aid funds are spent. as 2015 is the european year of development, i call on all parties involved to demonstrate even more strongly their desire to concretise cooperation and joint efforts to rebuild and assist countries in difficulty in order to protect fundamental human rights and freedoms and to promote the necessary social development.
the question he raised by raising his blue card. mr kukan, you are well aware of the situation in the balkans, as i know you are the head of the delegation for serbia. you are well aware of the situation in the balkans, albania, but also in bosnia and herzegovina. my question is about what you said, that there are many dangers among our neighbors, in our countries. i want to emphasize the problem of bosnia and herzegovina where the authorities say that about three thousand potential terrorists are currently residing on the soil of bosnia and herzegovina. my question is: do you share my concern and do you also call on the commission and all the european institutions to help bosnia and herzegovina?
mr. president, when we were here a few months ago talking about the situation in the middle east, i asked everyone if they knew what vukovar was, what srebrenica was, and if they had ever heard of those places before the tragedies that happened in vukovar and srebrenica. we were discussing the possible fall of kobane. fortunately, that did not happen. kobane is free today, but the terrible political crisis, the terrible humanitarian crisis continues, unfortunately as we witness it, grows day by day. so i believe that what is needed is a very determined, synergistic action by all those who can solve the problem in the middle east together. and that, of course, in addition to the european union, i include turkey, i include russia, i include the united states of america. i expect our commission to work in that direction, by synergy of all those forces which can solve the problem in the middle east.
mr. president, we know what we want, we know what we don't want, but unfortunately, we often don't know how. it's happened to us on a number of occasions, and unfortunately, especially when we're talking about the arab world, we kind of come to a situation where we just don't know how. we're talking here about many aspects of the crisis in yemen, political, security, but again unfortunately we're talking about the humanitarian aspect of the situation in yemen. of course, unresolved political crises, political situations, will bring us back to a situation where this powerlessness that we have in yemen today will turn into something that will threaten our strategic and security interests. i therefore call on the commission, on the council and on our allies to resolve the situation in yemen as quickly as possible, because we will have a situation like that in many other countries, even worse and more crisis-ridden than yemen is today.
madam president, articles 2 and 7 of the basic treaty are very clear. i'm definitely one of those who thinks that any intolerance, any disregard for human rights should really be punished. of course, if they are, they should also use the mechanisms that the european commission will now have at its disposal. but ladies and gentlemen, the european union is actually the largest area where human rights are really respected. and so i would like to say that maybe we should turn things around and start talking about those good examples, because europe really has an extremely large number of excellent examples where human rights are respected, tolerance is promoted and all the things that we talk about all the time in this parliament. in this context, i intend to come up with initiatives, and i expect the commission to support such initiatives, of course, because we have good examples and we need to present them and show them to the european public.
the question he raised by raising his blue card. madam president, madam president, i have listened to you very carefully and i have noticed that you share my concern about the transitional roads that are practically at the heart of europe. hungary and croatia are such examples. i ask you, do you think, as i do, that we should have a strong frontex presence on our borders, in the case of croatia towards bosnia and herzegovina and towards serbia, to help people, of course in terms of asylum and corridors, but also in terms of the danger that threatens?
madam president, according to available data, 2014 was a record year for the number of attempts to enter the european union illegally. some 270 000 people wanted to seek their fortune in europe, an increase of 138% on the previous year. over 3,000 died trying. it's about the hardships of human destiny, and we must not lose sight of that. but we should also be mindful of the threat to the security of our citizens posed by this influx of illegal immigrants. although the vast majority are fleeing poverty and war, some of them come with the goal of committing crime and expanding their terrorist networks. i therefore believe that we must give the greatest possible support to frontex and the competent authorities of the member states, who help save lives but are also the front line in the fight against terrorism and organised crime.
madam president, i see this phenomenon in two ways. first, we need to identify the causes of this phenomenon and work towards eliminating them, and second, we need to make the most of the mechanisms at our disposal. you have to know that we live in very turbulent times, from south-east europe, not only europe but the world, we talk about the crisis in ukraine, we talk about the situation in greece, we know what is happening in africa, at the same time syria, iraq, the mediterranean. so these are difficult times and europe has to find a way to respond. i'm all for the crisis areas being dealt with and dealing with it diplomatically and trying to reduce the crisis hotspots. that way we'll reduce the influx of refugees. it's not easy, of course it's easy to say, but at the same time we have the mechanisms that are available these days. and this morning when we were talking about terrorism and yesterday when we were talking about traffic violations, we kept saying that we need to use the intelligence mechanisms that countries have and that countries need to communicate better with each other. we keep coming back to that. so we don't need new mechanisms, we need to use the old mechanisms, but when it comes to frontex, then all the member states need to participate, all the member states need to give funds. it cannot be only italy and the southern countries that are under the greatest pressure that are giving the greatest resources. coming from croatia, i am very sensitive to the issue of refugees and displaced persons. consider that just 25 years ago, there were 550,000 refugees in croatia alone, in a small country of 4.5 million people. and there were also 150,000 more who had to go abroad, and i'm really sensitive to this phenomenon. however, the fact is that we need to find the means, that we need to help frontex to be used to its full potential. the mare nostrum was also an excellent mechanism, triton is solid, but it needs help to come to full expression.
answer the question posed by raising the blue card. maybe you didn't understand what i was trying to say. i wanted to say that we live in very turbulent times, that the crisis is all around europe itself, and that europe needs to muster enough strength, enough energy, enough spirit to respond to all the problems, and that's why i used greece, among other problems that europe is facing at the moment.
madam president, frontex and the european asylum support office are facing a major challenge in responding to the rapidly growing trends of pressure on the european union's borders and the increasing number of asylum applications, which amounted to 530 000 last year. crisis hotspots in africa are not calming down, and smugglers and traffickers are becoming more sophisticated and cruel in their practices. large numbers of migrants disappear after crossing the border into the european union, and this is particularly worrying in the case of isis fighters returning to europe. terrorist attacks and threats to eu citizens mean that we will have to strengthen the protection of our external borders and the controls within the common asylum system. this is why the budget for the work of both agencies needs to be increased and their powers increased. we need to establish cooperation with turkey, which does not react to ghost ships, and almost 90% of illegal immigrants are detected at the maritime border of the european union. we need to work with the western balkan countries that are the source of the radicals that are joining isis. croatia, my country of origin, will also play an important role here, because we also have the longest border in the european union and, of course, we are preparing to enter schengen. through the cooperation of these two agencies and the support of other bodies, we must respond to new challenges without losing the spirit of humanism that is woven into the foundations of the european union.
mr president, this debate has shown that we need more europe. this debate has shown the concern of our members from many parts of europe, from poland right up to the spanish border. it shows that we need more europe. and it's those who are most critical of this situation who are not aware of the fact that without more europe, without stronger frontex, without more investment in what security means at our borders, it's not going to be good for anyone in the european union. we need humanitarian corridors, we need a new asylum policy, we need absolute solidarity between member states, because italy cannot bear the brunt of all that is happening. we need more europe, and that is why i am calling on all of us to have more europe.
written. i support efforts to create a common policy on the european asylum system. the free movement of persons within the eu and the gradual abolition of internal borders make concerted action inevitable. the european asylum support office shall continuously work to coordinate the provision of operational support to member states, in particular in countries where the reception system is subject to strong migratory pressure. the office's work has led to serious progress in the creation and implementation of a common european asylum policy. the commission should also be able to provide information on the number of applications for international protection lodged by the member states in the framework of the union's asylum policy. frontex has also been an important element in the implementation of migration policy since 2005. the high migratory pressure on the eu requires coordinated operational action in risk analysis and external border surveillance and increasingly demanding technical and professional skills, especially in the main sea area of illegal migration the mediterranean. i welcome the increase in the budget for frontex, but the fact is that it is still a question of insufficient funds for all their activities. the commission should also be able to provide information on the progress made in the implementation of the union's external borders policy, including on the progress made in the implementation of the union's external borders policy.
mr. president, with the advancement of medical science, there are extremely expensive new drugs. when a life-saving drug comes on the market, i'm sure there's no doctor who wants to choose between the health of the patient and the savings in the health budget. if we talk about the cost of health care, on the one hand, for some diseases like hepatitis, we have an overpriced and unavailable cure, and on the other hand, society is extremely costly for all the hospitalizations that this person will experience without treatment, all the diagnoses and treatments and all the absences from work. not to mention the fact that human life has no price. the european union is built on the equality of its citizens. but when it comes to access to medicines, that equality does not exist. the move could have been made by the transparency directive, but it was stuck in a dead end. the idea that the european medicines agency fixes the relative value of new medicines as a starting point for national governments to negotiate with pharmaceutical companies is something i can support. especially if the variable part of the price is tied to gdp because the small and poorer countries have a worse bargaining position to start with. the agency is already deciding whether a new drug is safe and effective. i'm all for her skills extending to pricing. it doesn't make sense that the european union, which is unified in determining the safety of a drug, is divided into 28 member states when it comes to determining its price. the union can act to save taxpayers money and save lives by facilitating access to life-saving medicines.
answer the question posed by raising the blue card. - my dear colleague, you mentioned judicial protection and you mentioned police protection. but while we're working on the laws that the courts will enforce, there could be a lot of casualties. so i ask you, do you think that introducing sex education as a compulsory subject in the european union is necessary?
mr. president, (inaudible) ministry of interior of the republic of croatia in 2013 one in five children using the internet received a proposal of a sexual nature, while between 25 and 35 percent were exposed to sexual content. today, sexual predators no longer lurk in the bushes but hide behind elaborate usernames and fake social-media profiles. i think we need to focus on raising awareness among children and parents about the dangers that lurk on the internet. so, not waiting for something to happen and then reacting, but preventing. a child who is timely and well informed about the dangers of communicating with strangers online is one victim less. i also believe that we need to develop and expand online child sexual abuse reporting systems, like the red button that was implemented in croatia, and the logistics behind them.
member of the commission. - mr president, i would like to thank you for giving me the chance to discuss with you today this challenging and extremely important issue. as you can appreciate, the european union has already taken a series of steps to tackle sexual abuse of children on the internet, but unfortunately the fight to eradicate this hideous crime is far from complete. unfortunately. we need, therefore, to reflect on a policy that balances the right to privacy and protection of personal data with citizens’ security. ensuring effective investigations and prosecution of child sexual abuse online is a positive duty of member states to ensure protection of children’s fundamental rights. just one point. indeed, as many others of you have already mentioned, we need more people to work in the focal point, in ec3. this is why the commission supports the strengthening of europol. it is very critical. all of us recognise these needs, these demands, already. but i would like to repeat that this is far from complete, this very painful issue, and i am sure that we will continue our cooperation to maintain awareness at an optimum level.
written. reports of child sexual abuse on the internet show alarming trends. the demand for child sexual abuse content on the internet is increasing, the violence in such content is increasing, and the age of the victims is decreasing. according to europol, 10 percent of the victims are under two years old. police have had a very difficult time tracking down the perpetrators, and the objectionable content remains online, presenting a permanent trauma to the victims. it is estimated that about 50,000 controversial photos are uploaded each year. i have written to the commission before about the rapid removal of unused content from the internet, in particular with regard to the worrying trend of minors victimizing each other. at eu level, the average age at which children start using the internet is seven, and children aged nine to 16 spend about an hour and a half a day on the internet. the development and availability of technology creates a vast space for manipulation. i believe that joint action at transnational level is a necessary precondition for successfully countering these trends.
in writing. – at almost every plenary sitting we discuss problems connected to the use of internet and to the violence that persists on the web. it was, once the case regarding war propaganda, but this time it is about the worst case scenario: the sexual abuse of children using the internet. personally, i think that all abusers should be strongly punished and that we have to use the logic of zero tolerance in such cases of cybercrimes. i want to highlight the need for the commission to propose, with the so-called global alliance, an overall approach for the prevention of violence on the internet, and to oppose to everything that threatens our freedom and values. the new digital era should comply with new regulations. i feel that our legal system is still not fully ready to tackle new technologies and internet possibilities that go more quickly than our political and legal responses to the new digital era.
written. it is alarming that one in five children using the internet has received an unwanted suggestion or request of a sexual nature and that in europe between 10 and 20 per cent have been sexually abused. sadly, that number is constantly growing and is following alarming trends when it comes to online child abuse. it is known that in developing countries the internet is not as represented as in some western countries, so we must in time strongly condemn the sexual abuse and exploitation of children including child pornography, prostitution and all other cruel crimes as they represent serious violations of fundamental human rights. we must persist in establishing an accurate list of offences, setting minimum sentences, educating the authorities and ensuring the flow of information and criminal records of offenders to raise awareness of the seriousness of the problem. our mission is to create a safe environment for children online to both protect and empower them. furthermore, it is necessary to provide protection to victims and to develop a reliable legislative framework for tracing, identifying and punishing offenders, given that children are vulnerable and often find it very difficult to express their problems. this is a situation where we have to act preemptively because it's about the fundamental rights of children and human rights, the rights of our children -- our future.
mr. president, this time we're debating again in the classic way. we have a terrible murder, first of all. we have interests that are tied to the great lakes in africa and we have a partner with the european union. finally, we have a reporter. we always debate in this parliament in a similar way. either we have a partner in the european union that's doing the troubles or we have the horrific murders or when we were discussing the congo, we had again that topic that exists as an economic interest around the great lakes in africa. in this case, when i talk about journalists, here about the journalist, i'm talking about fundamental freedoms. i think we really need to define a common policy and send a clear message to all the partners of the european union that the minimum of respect for human rights cannot be compromised with the partners of the european union. i think that has to be our final position.
written. i support the establishment of a special committee on tax rules and other measures of a similar nature or effect. compliance with tax practices is an important prerequisite for a healthy economy.
written. i voted in favour of the establishment of a special committee on taxation rules and other measures of a similar nature or effect. the reason for my vote in favour is that i consider it necessary to establish a special committee on taxation and other measures similar in nature or effect, as this will establish better coordination and supervision of taxation and other measures similar in nature or effect.
written. i supported the establishment of a special committee on taxation and other measures similar in nature or effect, whose tasks are to: investigate and analyse the taxation and other similar measures of all member states since january 1991, to investigate and analyse the system of state aid in the member states, to encourage cooperation between member states in exchanging information and preventing aggressive tax planning and avoiding double taxation. the aim of the committee is to prevent aggressive tax planning and unfair tax measures that distort competition and the single market and thus hinder economic growth and development.
written. i fully support the establishment of a special committee on tax rules and other measures of a similar nature or effect. the recent examples of the "luxembourg" or hsbc banks show how a few in the existing system successfully find ways to commit various tax, financial and monetary malpractices that benefit only them and the consequences are borne by all citizens. even more alarming is the fact that various malpractices are taking place with the approval of the executive branch. the european parliament, as the only european body elected by the citizens, has a specific task to react in a timely manner to such cases, to encourage the adoption of a more adequate regulatory framework and to protect the citizens it represents.
written. i support the motion for a decision taking into account the commission's decision to investigate the tax ruling practice under eu state aid rules in all member states. to that end, the special committee should be empowered to analyse and examine the practice of tax rulings adopted in the member states since 1 january 1991, to analyse and assess the practice of the commission to carry out continuous surveillance of all support schemes existing in the member states and to propose appropriate measures necessary for the progressive development or functioning of the internal market, to analyse and examine whether member states are complying with the obligation to lay down detailed rules for the application of the obligation to cooperate and to provide all the necessary documents. in addition, it should have the power to analyse and examine compliance with the obligations laid down in the council directive on mutual assistance by the competent authorities of the member states in the field of direct taxation. the analysis and assessment of member states' conduct in accordance with the principle of sincere cooperation is also important. the powers of the special committee should also cover the analysis and assessment of the third country aspect of aggressive tax planning by undertakings established or established in the member states, and the exchange of information with third countries in this regard.
written. i supported the establishment of a special committee on tax rules, although the green/epp group proposed the establishment of a european parliament committee of inquiry to investigate all possible cases of breaches of european tax laws and practices. we received strong support, more than the required 25% of meps, or an extraordinary 192 signatures. the committee of inquiry is the strongest instrument in the hands of the european parliament and, through its oversight function, would represent the power of the citizens of the european union. the commission should also be able to use the information contained in the publications of the european parliament and of the council to provide the public with the information it needs to make decisions on the application of this regulation. by this act, the 'grand coalition' has undermined the power and credibility of the european parliament as the only directly democratically elected institution. the luxleaks affair is the best evidence that the failure of the member states and the commission to respect and implement the provisions of the treaties on which the european union is founded has taken on an extraordinary scale. the commission has already identified in 2012 the threat of aggressive tax planning by certain multinational companies to shift their tax obligations towards member states with more lenient tax regimes with the purpose of avoiding taxation and thereby boosting their own private profits. the commission notes that the tax advisor's assessment of the taxable profit of the company is based on the assumption that the company is not subject to taxation in the member state in which it is established.
written. the purpose of establishing a special committee on tax rules is to fight for tax justice and tax transparency in europe. tax evasion is still a problem in some member states and the aim of the committee is to achieve transparency in tax rulings, to come up with far-sighted proposals to strengthen tax integrity and to strengthen the fight against tax avoidance in the european union. those are my reasons for supporting this decision.
written. - i support this proposal to establish a special committee on tax rules and other measures of a similar nature or effect because i believe its existence is necessary to achieve equality of treatment. transparency in the taxation of multinational companies is of the utmost importance and i believe that there should be no situation in which certain types of benefits and concessions are granted. equal treatment for all, both domestic and foreign companies, is one of the foundations on which the whole european system rests, and its violation must not go unnoticed. i believe that tax policy should not be left to the whims of the state but must be improved and upgraded at european level, and the positive news is that alain lamassoure, as long-time chairman of the european parliament's budget committee and a prominent member of the epp club, will best represent the interests of both the epp and other clubs because he is a politician with charisma and an expert.
written. there is almost no form of human suffering and misery that has not struck the populations of iraq and syria in recent years. war, ethnic cleansing, disease, religious persecution, famine, and a host of other calamities have befallen innocent people, and sadly, there is no sign that suffering will end anytime soon. aside from the news, europe is also facing these disasters, or rather their consequences, face to face. thousands of unfortunates fleeing iraq and syria have been driven by desperation to board boats bound for our borders. europe has a moral obligation to provide them with direct aid in the form of food, medicine and other necessities of life. but if we really want to help them, we need to invest more resources in stopping the wars that are raging in their countries.
written. i voted in favour of the european parliament resolution on the humanitarian crisis in iraq and syria, particularly in the context of is. with the political and security disaster we have in the area, there is an extremely tragic humanitarian situation. hundreds of thousands of people who have fled their homes because of the horrors of war are entitled to humanitarian assistance and care from the european union as long as the political and security conditions for the return of refugees to their homes are not realistic. i have called on the commission, the member states and other states which are important for the settlement of this conflict, and in particular the united states, russia and turkey, to be fully involved in resolving this unsustainable situation.
written. on the security front, the situation in iraq and syria is deteriorating day by day. the people of these two countries face mass murder, torture and abduction because of their political and religious beliefs. the victims are mostly civilians, women and children. a stronger response from the european union and international organisations is needed and i supported this resolution calling for urgent action to help prevent terrorism, protect human rights, protect citizens from torture and other cruel and inhuman acts. it is of the utmost importance that the international community provide additional humanitarian assistance and financial support to the countries affected by the terror of isil and take steps to prevent the continuation of its activities.
due to the lack of strong proactive action, first in the wars in iraq and syria, and then followed by the utter failure of international institutions to stabilize these countries to successfully defend themselves against the violence perpetrated by the islamic state, iraq and syria have been brought to alarming levels of humanitarian crisis that threatens the health, security and well-being of both peoples. by 2014, more than 140,000 people had been killed in syria, while 6,500,000 were internally displaced and 2,500,000 were displaced in neighbouring countries. the situation in iraq is no better, and accordingly the un has declared the highest level of urgency for the crisis in that country. nearly 40% of the total refugee population are christians who are being abused, persecuted and killed in iraq and syria. the lives of all refugees are brought to the very edge of existence without adequate housing, clothing and food conditions, they hope and wait for our help. it is not enough to send humanitarian aid, but it is necessary to achieve the highest level of cooperation in order to establish stability in iraq and syria and to provide all the necessary aid and assistance to the people affected by this terrible humanitarian crisis.
the scenes of brutal violence we witness every day should be a signal for urgent action by the european union to help the victims of this unprecedented terror. this violence is particularly rampant in iraq and syria, where thousands of people are being pushed to the edge of survival and existence every day. the european union must show full solidarity with the people affected and take urgent emergency measures to try to help them. this and more than thousands of young isil fighters come from the eu. in addition to urgent financial measures and food and medicine assistance, a comprehensive development strategy for the middle east and north africa is needed. military victory over dictators and terrorists alone is not enough, because it is easier to remove the top of regimes than the political, economic and social circumstances in which they have been maintained.
the european commission announced last week that it will allocate an additional €1 billion to resolve the crisis in syria and iraq and to counter the threat posed by the so-called islamic state (is). i welcome the commission's approach to funding a 'global strategy' to bring peace and security to the region, which consists of a package of political and various concrete measures for syria and iraq, including assistance to turkey, lebanon and jordan, the countries which have taken in the largest number of refugees (turkey 1 650 000, lebanon 1 200 000, jordan 600 000). the strategy presented by the european commission is based on the eu's diplomatic action, the development of programmes to combat radicalisation, the prevention of terrorist financing channels, the suppression of the phenomenon of foreign fighters, and effective border controls. the eu is the leading donor with over €3.2 billion, and 40% of the new financial assistance is dedicated to the humanitarian care of displaced people. the eu has also been working to reduce the number of syrian refugees in the country, in particular by providing humanitarian aid to the syrian refugees in the country.
written. i am concerned about the humanitarian catastrophe in syria and iraq caused by the assad regime and terrorists and i consider the assistance of the international community and the member states of the european union to be urgently needed. the systematic use of violence based on religion and ethnicity in northern iraq and syria indicates widespread violations of human rights and disregard for the dignity of human life. currently, over 12 million syrians are in urgent need of assistance, while more than 7.6 million people have been displaced. nothing better than the situation in iraq, where the areas controlled by isis/daesh are home to 6 million people, of which 2.2 million are hard to reach. therefore, i support the international humanitarian agencies operating in iraq and syria in providing as many medical and counselling services, psychological treatment and adequate assistance as possible. given that 276 000 refugees have so far attempted to enter the eu illegally, mostly by the life-threatening mediterranean route, more effective rescue and reception actions are needed. the european union must help those member states that are under the greatest pressure from the arrival of asylum seekers. in the interest of achieving lasting peace, i have endorsed this resolution which seeks to alleviate the crisis and to apply adequate international law so that all acts and crimes are brought to justice.
written. i support this resolution because the actions of isil have violated all human and moral laws. there is a humanitarian crisis of terrible proportions, and the world is failing to meet the needs of refugees and the countries that have given them refuge. now all the forces must be focused on helping, supporting and providing humanitarian aid. although there are some indications that isil has been weakened by jordanian airstrikes in retaliation for the burning of its pilots, the world still has a long way to go to stop isil's expansion and funding, as well as the expansion of the caliphate. also, in this sense, every country has to go it alone, and we need to improve controls at the borders and inside every country to prevent the flow of fighters to iraq and syria, because the fact is that eu citizens themselves are going to fight for isil. this extremism is the great danger of our time and the eu must therefore do everything in its power to contribute to the final fall of isil and to protect the vulnerable groups there.
written. - i support this motion for a resolution because i believe it is of the utmost importance that the international community provide additional humanitarian aid and financial support to the countries affected by the terror of isil and that everything possible be done to prevent their plans as soon as possible. the situation there is getting worse by the day, with more than 200,000 people killed, most of them civilians, women and children. they are being killed en masse, tortured and kidnapped because of their political beliefs and religious affiliations, women are being captured and sold, and children are being driven to suicide by bombing. this is a violation of all the basic human rights that we are fighting for and the current situation should be tried to prevent as soon as possible so that there is no expansion of isil into the area of north africa and libya, where isil is trying to take advantage of the situation of political vacuum.
mr. president, we need safe, sustainable, competitive and affordable energy. and that's why we need an energy union. what i would like to say in this debate is to draw attention to what the potential of the adriatic is and what the potential of the balkans is. in particular, the possibility of building an lng terminal in the adriatic sea on the island of krk has been planned for decades, and would be good for croatia and slovenia and the czech republic and slovakia and austria and hungary and northern italy. let us consider whether this project can really be built by a joint european effort, with public and private capital. secondly, there is a lot of potential for renewable hydropower in the balkans, both in the member states and especially in the candidate countries or potential candidates. i warn you about this great renewable energy resource in the balkans.
mr. president, mr. vice president sefcovic, you have put a lot of effort and energy into bringing an important document in a short time. it is a document that defines the vision of the new european union. however, there is still much work for all of us to do to make this vision a reality. it's full of political challenges. i'll just list a few: decarbonising energy and the economy, boosting regional cooperation in south east europe which is still under pressure from history and war, cheaper energy for our citizens and economy as perhaps one of the most important political challenges we face in the coming years. unfortunately, no one today mentioned that the document highlights the problem of decarbonising transport, which is also one of the big consumers of the fossil fuels it imports. investing in innovation and new technologies, smart green, smart cities, even in a word, the circular economy. i hope that you will take the implementation of the energy union in that direction and i wish you every success in that.
mr president, i support the idea of an energy union because it will give citizens greater choice in energy supply and encourage competition and consequently lead to lower prices. from a geostrategic standpoint, the union is needed to reduce the dependence of our member states on russian energy, with which moscow is clearly buying our passivity when it comes to their aggressive policy towards their neighbours. however, i believe that such a union should not restrict the sovereignty of the member states. the commission considers that the aid is compatible with the internal market if it is granted to the beneficiary of the aid. i also wish to express my full support for the construction of an lng terminal on the croatian island of krk, which should become the backbone of the future common energy market for the countries of central europe.
mr president, i would like to welcome the launch of the energy union after more than 60 years since the european coal and steel community was founded. so, today we have something new and it's really necessary, the energy union, because it's unacceptable that some countries, like russia, use their energy resources to do political trade with other countries, and i think that's simply unacceptable. the fact is that most of europe's energy comes from outside the european union, more than 55%. it is also a fact that our infrastructure is outdated and so it is good that energy security is high on the agenda in mr juncker's commission, and i am very pleased that the investment plan has been adopted. also, as i come from croatia, i would like to mention that the lng terminal that will hopefully be built on the island of krk is a good investment that will fit into mr juncker's investment plan. so i welcome the energy union and i welcome even more the construction of an lng terminal in croatia.
written. i welcome the commission's new initiative which recognises that now is the right time to act on the energy future of the european union, as we are facing energy poverty and a large proportion of citizens cannot pay their bills. we should not be fooled by the current low fossil fuel price situation, because europe is now dependent on imported energy. so our goal should be to invest in tomorrow's technologies that will give us energy independence from clean and renewable energy sources. if we really want to meet the targets of the 2020 and 2030 energy and climate strategy, it is clear that we cannot afford to look again at the short-term interests of the oil industry, but we must take a firm step towards the use of renewable energy sources, which is a prerequisite for sustainable development. i believe that the dimensions of energy efficiency, carbon reduction and research and innovation are particularly important, and europe is currently lagging behind in the application and exploration of new energy technologies. the energy union project must lead to a reversal of investment policy and a single position on a common strategy for future development. i am delighted with the projection of the future of the energy union as a system in which all our citizens, through the use of clean energy and smart distribution and consumption systems, will become global leaders in the path of preserving life on the planet and sustainable development.
written. commissioner, i congratulate and welcome the strategy of establishing the energy union and the free transfer of energy as a common good. the commission should be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 290 tfeu concerning the definition of the concept of 'originating products' and the definition of the concept of 'originating products' and the definition of the concept of 'originating products' and the definition of the concept of 'originating products'. the process should also take into account the circumstances in the member states, their potential to implement the necessary reforms, and provide them with the necessary support. the energy union can be discussed in many contexts: energy independence, diversification, efficiency and sustainability. but the time of the eu's serious security challenges places a particular emphasis on the energy security context. i am therefore pleased that the european energy security strategy has also included three croatian projects: the lng terminal on the island of krk, the ionian-adriatic pipeline and the hungarian-croatian reverse stream. these are cross-border projects of major importance for the region and europe in general. political reality proves that the availability of energy has become the oxygen for democracy. the eu's political integration therefore needs to be upgraded to include energy integration. the eu needs an integrated market that is more stable than the price of a barrel of oil.
the energy union and a forward-looking climate policy are among the key priorities of the juncker commission. the objectives of the energy union are security of supply, sustainability and competitiveness. the commission has proposed short-term measures in its report on the energy union security strategy in may 2014, but at this point in time it is necessary to take a step forward in the realisation of this important project for the future of europe. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the energy union strategy and will continue to monitor the implementation of the energy union strategy. given that the eu imports 53% of its energy and that six member states are dependent on one external supplier, and bearing in mind the current nature of the eu-russia relationship in view of the aggression against ukraine, the eu needs to diversify its gas supply and make it more resilient to possible supply disruptions. the objective is to create an effective infrastructure to strengthen the union's negotiating power. the commission will continue to support the implementation of the energy union and the cohesion policy, in particular by supporting the implementation of the energy union and the cohesion policy.
mr. president, i am pleased that all three institutions are represented here today with their three presidents and i am particularly pleased that we have succeeded in achieving unity between these three institutions when it comes to counter-terrorism measures. i want to say that human life is at the heart of our policies and all this that we are talking about and what was discussed at the last council meeting was just human life, and we must preserve dignity. i would divide these seven themes into two groups. one is ukraine, greece, libya, paris, copenhagen, and the other group is the energy union, the economic and monetary union, and also the investment plan. the first group are the problems, and the second group are the solutions to those problems. that is why i insist that we implement coherently and uniquely both the economic and monetary union and the energy union and the investment plan, and that we put them into practice. so to help solve the problems that we have across europe and in the very northeast in ukraine and in the very south in greece and in the very south in the mediterranean where we have a problem with the border, with immigration or migrants, it's nice that we have achieved unity in all of this that we're talking about. however, it is necessary to implement all these policies on the ground. it's not easy, we're not going to solve the problem with ukraine easily, but we need unity. so, thank you all for being here today, and for being able to at least in this short time to comment on all of these topics.
written. the themes of the meeting were: the european response to terrorism, the greek question and the ukraine question. i shall dwell on the question of ukraine. ukraine, as the main topic of the informal meeting of the heads of state or government of the european union held on 12.02.2015, remains the main political issue of the european union in its relations with russia. the announcement of the minsk ii ceasefire and, hopefully, the imminent full peace are encouraging signs for the future. a political solution is urgently needed, based on the fundamental principles of the european union's existence: respect for the sovereignty of each european state and full respect for all human and minority rights. in this context, i would like to underline the statement by high commissioner mogherini, who spoke at the last session about the need for decentralisation of ukraine, which is a rational and genuine european solution to the ukrainian situation in its east. europe must remain united and strong, but at the same time remain a partner with russia. the severed business ties and business relations with russia bring many problems to the european economy and therefore further require an urgent solution to the whole crisis situation.
mr president, i would like to welcome commissioner dombrovskis and all my colleagues, and congratulate rapporteur mr zalbi on his excellent and comprehensive report. the eurozone is a heterogeneous area with 19 countries, and with the necessary coordination with countries outside the eurozone because we want positive effects and economic growth and development throughout the union. with this in mind, we must acknowledge that the european central bank faces a major challenge in achieving a high-quality and successful combination of monetary and fiscal policy measures. differences between member states in the commitment to implementing structural reforms in their fiscal policies, in productivity, lead to asymmetric effects of monetary policy measures on the economy. we must be aware, and i am glad that mr draghi has always stressed this, that without the successful implementation of the european semester, monetary policy measures can only have short-term positive effects, with the risk that the long-term effects will be negative. the european commission, with its new investment plan, calls on member states to implement structural reforms and to systematically approach project design and preparation in partnership with entrepreneurs. it's up to all of us to work hard, to encourage and encourage governments to implement reforms and eliminate investment risks. only then will the proactive and high-quality operation of monetary policy measures result in stable and long-term growth and development in our countries.
the european central bank report states that 2013 was not a good year for the european economy. the commission notes that the commission has not provided any information on the level of the aid granted to the beneficiaries. the forecasts for 2013 imposed an expectation of a 0.2% unemployment reduction and were partially met. in other words, unemployment did indeed decrease, but there were significant differences in unemployment rates between member states. croatia has a high unemployment rate of 17,3% when it joined the european union in 2013. i am deeply concerned about the very small drop in youth unemployment. in particular, compared to 2008, the first quarter of 2014 saw a drop in youth unemployment of 5%, which is an extremely poor result. the lack of credit for smes in some member states is also a major problem. the european central bank (ecb) has also been asked to provide a report on the implementation of the new lending facility. all these results indicate that europe is still far from achieving the objectives of the europe 2020 strategy and i hereby call on the european central bank to raise awareness of this objective through the implementation of its policy in the future.
written. the unfortunate fact that the forecasts proved to be correct as gdp in the euro area in 2013 declined significantly by 0,4% and unemployment increased by 6% in 2013 as opposed to the previous year. it is clear that there is a risk that trends related to employment and poverty reduction will not achieve the national targets under the europe 2020 strategy. the commission has also taken into account the fact that the european central bank has reduced its interest rates twice in 2013 and that this has not led to an improvement in access to credit for households and businesses, gdp growth or job creation. i welcome the willingness of the european central bank to take the necessary steps to save the euro, even though economic activity is still slowing down with negative gdp growth in the euro area in 2013, where there is also a high rate of unemployment, especially among young people. i consider that the main task of the european central bank is to preserve price stability, to achieve sustainable economic, social progress and employment, which has largely been achieved in the light of the difficult economic situation. i therefore believe it is crucial to create the conditions for opening up investment in the euro area and beyond, and to focus even more decisively on creating high-quality jobs in the face of the high rate of youth unemployment, which poses a major risk to the eu's economic and social stability.
mr president, it is often said that when the carnival is over, the masks fall off and the true face, reality as it is, is left in the sunlight. and this is true, especially in venezuela. last week the carnival ended, but not only in the sense of the calendar, but the carnival of lies about the alleged bolivarian revolution, about the supposed socialism of the 21st century, which was supposedly democratic, ended; with the imprisonment of the mayor of caracas it became clear that in venezuela political freedoms, individual freedoms are not respected. that there is no democracy in venezuela. it is true that maduro was elected in democratic elections, but democracy is not only voting for a government, but also respecting the opposition, respecting political and civil liberties. and when a government starts to curtail those freedoms, to imprison opposition leaders, that government becomes an authoritarian regime. and that's why i say that the masks have fallen, that the regime of nicolás maduro has been transformed smoothly and plainly into a dictatorship. in the homeland of simón bolívar, who is rightly considered one of the liberators of america, unfortunately today those who call themselves bolivarians are the ones who attack freedom. by jailing his opponents, maduro is leaving the people of venezuela in the dark. in the shadow of dictatorship, in the shadow of oppression, and in the shadow of poverty. that is why we have to send a clear message, from the international community and also from this parliament we have to say "enough" to the authoritarian and dictatorial regime of nicolás maduro.
mr president, as a person who stands for the rule of law, i ask the european commission to continue to protect this principle in all the member states of the european union as well as those that wish to become one. i expect the european commission to ask serbia to suspend articles 2 and 3 of the law on the organization and competence of state bodies in war crimes proceedings, which serbia is abusing the principle of universal jurisdiction. serbia has assigned itself the role of little hague and violated the sovereignty of the republic of croatia and our citizens, especially the croatian defender veljko marić. serbia, on the basis of this legal hybrid, can sue citizens and 17 members of the european union who fought as defenders in defense of the republic of croatia. in addition to existing judgments, this month the international court of justice in the hague ruled on a genocide lawsuit against serbia, finding serbia responsible for its criminal policy and war in croatia from 1991 to 1995. it is completely unacceptable that a country that was an aggressor in croatia, which was confirmed by the last verdict, is today judging our citizens for alleged crimes committed in our country. serbia needs help to implement reforms to continue its european path, and there is a key role for the european commission, which has a duty to protect the rule of law, which it has not done so far when it comes to the aforementioned law.
mr. president, vaccination is one of civilization's greatest scientific achievements and a cause of collective pride for all of humanity. developed countries like europe are investing heavily in vaccination programs in so-called third world countries, yet they cannot convince their own citizens that vaccination is necessary. as a result, measles cases in europe have increased from 7,000 in 2007 to 33,000 in 2013. a few days ago in germany, one of the most developed countries in the world, a child died of a disease that we believed was under control. freedom of choice does not mean freedom to endanger the health of others, and refusing to be vaccinated against certain diseases is just that. i come from croatia, a country where refusing to vaccinate children is a crime. health is the responsibility of the eu member states, but say that to viruses, bacteria and victims of vaccine-preventable disease outbreaks. i call on the institutions of the european union to use all the mechanisms at their disposal to tackle the scourge of childhood vaccination refusal.
member of the commission.– madam president, i am grateful to the european parliament for the organisation of the plenary debate on progress towards equality between women and men. i would also like to thank mr tarabella and other members of parliament for the report, which clearly identifies remaining challenges and future priorities. before outlining my priorities for the coming years, i would like to mention the achievements so far. equality between women and men has progressed over the last years in the eu. women have entered the labour market in large numbers and contributed to the eu’s economic growth and competitiveness. changes have not happened automatically, but are a result of strategic policy initiatives at european, national and local levels. in line with its obligations under the treaties, the eu promotes gender equality in all its activities, from education to work, and from research to external policy. it has combined legislation, policy measures and funding. i dare to say that the eu is now a good address for women. despite progress, however, gender equality still remains very much unfinished business. it is necessary to recall the scale of gender inequalities and the unacceptably high levels of violence against women in europe. gender inequalities affect our society. they can have a damaging effect on employment and growth rates, on well—being and on social cohesion. therefore, i share mr tarabella’s concerns, and gender equality will be a priority of my mandate. in particular, i agree that we will have to pursue our efforts to facilitate work-life balance and to close the gaps in pay, employment, pensions and decision-making. these are still very valid objectives. the proposed directive on improving gender balance on the boards of listed companies remains a priority for me and for the commission. i am delighted that the european parliament, as well as more and more member states, support this initiative, and i am confident that we will see this directive adopted this year. i also welcome the recent german bundestag decision adopting the law on gender balance, and i hope this will lead also to germany taking a more welcoming approach towards the eu commission proposal. we might also need to take a fresh look at the way we promote gender equality. the report mentions issues such as the increasing poverty of men and women, the very difficult situation of single mothers, and gender stereotypes. the commission is ready to help member states to advance in these fields. i also very much appreciate mr tarabella’s vision on work-life balance policies. these policies are not only a women’s issue. they should help both men and women to reconcile family and work throughout their lifetime. i am strongly encouraged by the news that there is movement on the proposal to improve the maternity leave directive. i am aware of significant efforts in this house to build consensus around a fresh approach. this seems to me to be a very good and reasonable basis for discussions with the council. i will be happy to facilitate fast progress on this file in cooperation with the latvian presidency, the parliament and the commission. the parliament has repeatedly asked the commission to step up its efforts to combat gender-based violence. i am convinced that the council of europe convention on preventing and combating violence against women and domestic violence provides a good legal framework for all of us. i also agree with the rapporteur that the eu needs to grant sufficient resources for awareness-raising activities. a european year on violence against women could be one way of achieving this. to be of clear added value, such a year would require appropriate funding, consultation of relevant stakeholders and clear preparation. i am not ruling out this possibility but i think it is too optimistic to launch such a year in less than ten months. gender equality is a long-lasting commitment for the eu. the results of a recent eurobarometer show that nearly all europeans agree that equality between women and men is a fundamental right, and a large majority of citizens believe that tackling inequality between women and men should be a priority for the eu.
the question he raised by raising his blue card. mr. president, although the congresswoman said a lot at the end of her speech, i want to ask a question do you really think we need sexist language on the internet? do you really think that this kind of thing on the internet can't be fixed? i just don't understand you when you act like that.
the question he raised by raising his blue card. mr. nagy, you mentioned ethics and politics. i'm interested in whether the issue of abortion and reproductive rights is in your opinion a matter of ethics or politics? do you consider subsidiarity an excuse, or is it an attitude? you haven't made that clear, is that a question of value to you?
mr president, as a person who stands for the rule of law, i ask that the documents adopted by this parliament respect the principle of subsidiarity, which states that the area of reproductive health is a matter for the member states under article 168 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union. the report on equality between men and women is problematic because it wants to put the european parliament in the position of promoting abortion within the framework of women's sexual and reproductive rights as a means of achieving equality between women and men, which is unacceptable. the report shall be accompanied by a report on the implementation of the union's policy on the prevention of abortion and on the implementation of the union's policy on the prevention of abortion. the european union uses the official definition of 'reproductive health' agreed at the 1994 un conference in cairo which explicitly excludes abortion from the terms sexual and reproductive health. if the european parliament accepts such a report, it violates the principle of subsidiarity and interferes with the rights of the eu member states to decide on these issues on their own, to which over 153 000 citizens reacted in just a few days in a petition asking the meps to remove abortion from this report. the report does not support men and women who decide to start a family and have children, nor does it adequately address the issue of unpaid work by women in the home; nor does it take into account women and men who work for several weeks without a day off. so i would like to draw attention again to the fact that the right to life is a fundamental human right that is being challenged today all over the world and i call on you, my colleagues, once again to protect human life. equity is not achieved by taking away someone else's rights but by ensuring equal starting positions and opportunities for all. if we don't even allow someone to be born, then we are promoters of inequality. as a person who stands for equal opportunity for all, i urge you to respect the golden rule and to protect life. (the president agreed to answer the question by raising the blue card under rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure.)
the question he raised by raising his blue card. mrs. petir, thank you for accepting the blue card. i cannot accept your statement that the european parliament is in the service of promoting abortion. i ask you are you aware that many women have to have abortions for health reasons, are you aware that many women have had unwanted pregnancies? just remember everything that happened in bosnia and herzegovina. i ask you, will you vote for the tarabella report tomorrow?
answer the question posed by raising the blue card. mr jakovčić, if abortion remains within the scope of this report and the european parliament adopts it, then the european parliament is putting itself in the role of the member states and thereby violating the principle of subsidiarity, which i believe none of the members who are in favour of the rule of law can accept.
mr. president, i would like to thank my colleague, marcus tarabelli, for a job well done. i hold that economic equality is the basic prerequisite for gender equality. by suspending the proposals on gender equality, the council and the commission are sending a message to half the population of the european union that their fundamental human right to equality can wait. that's like saying women want to be unemployed, work all january and february for free compared to their male colleagues, and then be left without a pension in old age. with 20% more women than men getting even higher education, pretending that the present situation is satisfactory is absolutely insane. at this rate, equal pay for equal work won't happen until 2084. that's why i'm proud that female entrepreneurship is growing in croatia, i'm proud that we are introducing gender quotas in the parliament, because active and binding measures are the key to good change. let's not repeat last year's disgrace, let's show those who try to bring europe back to the middle ages by trying to dismantle computer systems and by preventing meps from working. they're not gonna make it. tomorrow, support the fundamental rights for the women. we have to show them that we're here for them.
mr. president, i cannot support this report. although it should be aimed at advancing equality between women and men, as its title suggests, i believe it does the opposite and that most of the recommendations put women back in the position they were in before emancipation. here's an example. the report calls on member states to include in their rural development programmes strategies aimed at increasing the number of jobs in rural areas that are targeted at women. shouldn't we be fighting against this gendered division of jobs? have not women fought against such discrimination for decades? and i myself, as a police officer in canada, about 30 years ago, redefined a job that was gender-specific, and through my persistence, i became the first female motorcycle police officer in that country. so it is not in my best interests to start today to advocate views that i once abhorred. ladies and gentlemen, if we really care about enforcing gender equality laws, we should first fight to enforce the laws that already exist. because proposing new laws for political reasons alone doesn't benefit anyone, especially not women.
mr. president, i want to emphasize right from the start that we are all equal. we are all equal and we are born equal. we were born free. but then something happens to us, and we're no longer free and we're no longer equal. that's why i'm surprised and surprised by the actions of some of our colleagues and colleagues here, because we are born free and equal. you can read more about this in the bible, in the words that jesus used. and today we're here to make a difference between men and women. it really doesn't make any sense. so i'm asking you to support this report, because i'm deeply convinced that only our equality, gender and any other, makes sense during our lifetime.
the question he raised by raising his blue card. mr. woolfe, besides wishing that when you speak, and i agree with you, to people who are barely making ends meet, you don't keep your hands in your pockets and you respect this house and these people, i do want to ask you something else. i want to ask you, as a free man, as a representative, can you fall under any influence or do you still make your own decisions? lobbyists come here, but i believe that everyone here decides with their own head. i hope you do, too.
madam president, free competition and fair competition are indeed the foundations of our politics and our economy. however, this report shows that, after all, the more europe we need in the areas we need, the better for us, because we have competition problems. i am talking here primarily about the single energy market and the single digital market. one of the absurdities that my esteemed colleague in our group has been talking about is the question of google and its position in the market, and it's really something incredible. we are entering the digital single market, we are entering the digital age, which for me should become one of the five freedoms, digital freedom in europe we are entering objectively with a monopoly. and we really need to take concrete action here, because that's definitely not going to be good for our markets in the long run.
mr president, the debate on endocrine disruptors involves a question we often encounter in the european parliament: do i want to protect the economy or my health? the commission, in this case, has sided with the money side, more precisely with the chemical industry and agriculture, and therefore it is our duty to speak out on behalf of those who elected us. the studies are contradictory, but even a minimal calculation of the damage that endocrine disruptors from pesticides potentially cause through the air, fetal deformities, infertility, decreased iq, all call for action. the argument that a ban on pesticides containing these substances would currently harm european agriculture stands. but we as legislators have to think long-term. if one child's iq is lowered by endocrine disruptors, it's a serious family problem. but 100,000 of these children is a european problem. the money we save today by allowing endocrine disruptors will be spent tomorrow on repairing the damage they cause, and that's why i'm glad to hear the commissioner's words that he's not going to do anything that's harmful.
mr. president, paracelsus also said: "all matter is poison". there is no substance that is not poison. it's the dose that makes a substance a medicine or a poison. today we know that it's also exposure to a substance. in this case, we're talking about a substance that negatively affects the development of a young person, a child, reproduction, neurology, immune systems. we're really talking about something that's damaging our environment here, and that's why i'm for the so-called precautionary rule. the precautionary principle which means that we must immediately exclude everything we can exclude because the far-reaching consequences could be tragic for our europe, especially for the younger generations. in this context, i would like to see this cross-sectoral problem really put on the agenda of this parliament as soon as possible and that we, together with the commission, draw sensible conclusions.
the question he raised by raising his blue card. madam deputy, you have spoken very badly about the countries that joined the european union after the european union was founded, and you have spoken particularly badly about the recent accession and the countries that are from so-called eastern europe. i ask you, are you not ashamed to speak in this way about these countries, these peoples who have been waiting for us to live together in a united europe?
mr. president, my esteemed commissioner bulc, i have a concrete proposal to make. i think it is very important that the commission informs this parliament of the overall implications of our relations with russia. our decision was to impose sanctions. this has been the policy of the majority in this parliament and the policy of the european commission and the council, and i think it is important that we know the overall proportions of this problem. not just in transportation, not just, ladies and gentlemen, in agriculture. of course, there are repercussions in other sectors, especially in some countries. so i think it's not good to just discuss individual sectors, but i think it's very important to decide how we're going to go forward, even if we give up some projects for a while, because the sanctions might last a long time. so i propose that you be the bearer of the commission's joint statement to parliament on all the overall consequences of these sanctions.
mr president, one of the main policies of the european union is to combat climate change. this is of course a corollary of our environmental policy and it is certainly a corollary of our objective of decarbonising the european economy. unfortunately, we are witnessing the possible soon construction of the plomin 3 coal-fired power plant in istria, croatia, which will certainly not contribute to decarbonization, environmental protection and our policy to combat climate change. i say this especially because there is also a croatian national project nearby, which is also included in european projects, the construction of an lng terminal on the island of krk. that is why i call on the commission and all those involved to bring these projects together. we build the plomin 3 gas-fired power plant and use the lng terminal that is near plomin, and that really needs to be used to the end.
mr president, in the absence of sound economic management, a well-regulated system of timely action and clear rules of procedure, the citizens of the european union are often at a disadvantage. we need to prevent situations where those at risk of flooding since the summer of 2014 are left unattended and living in containers and the european union solidarity fund is not used; where certain industries are hit by the crisis, workers are laid off and applications are not sent to the european globalisation adjustment fund; where every other young person is unemployed and the youth guarantee funds are used with delays; where investments are falling and eu funds are not used. because of these cases, in order to protect our citizens, to whom we guarantee security and solidarity, we must insist on the adoption and implementation of the rules of good economic and financial management at all levels.
mr. president, i want to thank mr. leichtfried and mr. ferber for conducting this business well and for reaching a certain agreement. in this directive we are coming to realize how heterogeneous the european union is, how different finland is from the far south, but we have to achieve common standards, a common market, and that is why i welcome this agreement, which has been reached after many years. what i'm particularly pleased about, as a member of the environmental protection committee, is that we're going to make significant savings and we're going to protect the environment. knowing that 70% of road traffic is in the european union, then this is a big step. of course, it's not easy to achieve unity given the diversity of our economies and the different degrees of our economy and the different infrastructures, but our goal is to achieve unity, to achieve trans-boundary. i'm all about new technology, innovation, and most of all, traffic safety. i'm sorry it won't go into effect until 2020, but i believe we'll be able to achieve adjustment by then. in any case, i would also like to welcome mrs bulc and thank her for bringing this proposal to the plenary. (the president agreed to answer the question by raising the blue card (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure))
answer the question posed by raising the blue card. mrs. meissner, i'm all for the gradual approach. so, to see, step by step, what the infrastructure is in which country and how it's possible. so the member states should decide on this, because i don't think all the countries are equally infrastructure ready - one is a rural area, the other is an urban area. i am therefore in favour of a gradual approach and i believe that we will reach a single, common european solution little by little.
mr. president, i think the key word for our exit from the crisis is synergy. only by synergy of all mechanisms can we get europe out of this situation. many member states are already emerging from the crisis, but there are also those that are still failing to emerge from the crisis. the synergy of the public and the private, but also the synergy of the juncker plan, the cohesion policy, private capital, the long-term fund that i am proposing and that we are discussing here - all these are elements of possible synergy. and we do have a lot of resources at our disposal, but we have to use them really smartly. i am therefore one of those who wish to express my support in the belief that first of all these funds in the long-term fund will be fully open and easily accessible to smes, because we must also include them in this long-term fund.
the question he raised by raising his blue card. mr ujhelyi, you spoke about the problem of youth unemployment, about the need to re-industrialize europe. i ask you, do you agree with me that tourism is one of the sectors that requires long-term investment? we have already had a discussion on this subject and i would like to hear it from my colleagues, because we talk too little about tourism and youth unemployment is particularly high in the mediterranean tourist countries. i'd like to hear your opinion.
written. ‒ given that the european union has put in place legislative and budgetary instruments to provide additional support to workers affected by the consequences of major structural changes in world trade flows and to help reintegrate them into the labour market, and that poland meets the prescribed conditions, i support the ep's decision.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the european parliament resolution on the proposal for a decision of the parliament and of the council on the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund in connection with the redundancies of 615 workers at zaklady chemiczne zachem and two suppliers, because i strongly support support support for workers affected by global structural change. this is a concrete help in their reintegration into the labour market facing the global trends of globalisation; in particular, the union's share of the chemicals market has declined significantly over the last ten years and has been shifting towards asia. in that context, it is important to ensure that assistance is dynamic and available as quickly as possible in order to prevent further deterioration of the situation of dismissed workers. therefore, i support this proposal because zachem was the largest employer in the kujawsko-pomeranian voivodeship which will certainly feel the negative consequences of the layoffs and the additional growth of the unemployment rate.
written. ‒ as a result of the economic crisis, poland has suffered a large loss of market share in the chemical industry and has lost its leading position in chemical sales due to cheaper chemicals from asian countries, in particular china. the report refers to zakladye chemiczne zachem which was a polish producer of semi-finished, finished and organic and inorganic chemical products for a wide range of industries until its closure in december 2012. the closure of their plants had a negative impact on the local community, which has the highest unemployment rate in poland. as a solution, the report proposes a contribution from the egf for a coordinated package of personalised services of eur 115 000, representing 50% of the total cost relating to the surplus of 615 workers in the trade company zakladye chemiczne zachem and its suppliers zachem urc sp. z o.o. and metalko sp. z o.o. i support the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund, which aims to reintegrate displaced workers, provide incentives for potential employers and provide education for workers on specific skills and competences required by employers.
written. ‒ the eu's share of the world chemicals market has fallen dramatically from 35.2% in 1992 to 17.8% in 2012, reflecting the migration of chemical production to asia and china. the level of production in asian economies is also driven by lower labour costs, market access, subsidies, taxes and regulations. zaklady chemiczne zachem was a polish chemical products manufacturer based in bydgoszcz. zachem produced semi-finished and finished organic and inorganic products for the automotive, chemical, construction and textile industries. the line was closed in december 2012. the request states that the situation has led to a surplus of 615 workers in three companies. on the basis of the request from poland, the proposed contribution from the egf to the coordinated package of personalised services is eur 115 205, representing 50% of the total cost.
written. ‒ i support the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) to help poland with its technological surplus in the chemical industry, with a contribution from the egf for a coordinated package of services of eur 115 205 representing 50% of the total cost. in order to link the redundancies to the major structural changes in world trade flows due to globalisation, poland argues that the eu has suffered a significant loss of market share in the chemical industry and has lost its leading position in the world. from 1992 to 2012, the eu's share of the world chemicals market fell dramatically, from 35,2% in 1992 to 17,8% in 2012. the trend in recent years shows a migration of chemical production towards asia, especially china. the level of production in asian economies has been boosted by lower labour costs, access to various markets, subsidies and taxes. member states need to show solidarity with each other when needed, and i am glad that they have shown that today by this example.
written. ‒ at a time when europe is facing a financial, economic and social crisis with unemployment as its key consequence, the european union should use all the means at its disposal to respond, especially in terms of providing support to people who have lost their jobs. the european globalisation adjustment fund was established to provide additional support to workers affected by the consequences of major structural changes in international trade and to assist them with reintegration into the labour market and with finding a new job. poland submitted an application egf/2013/003 pl/zachem for a financial contribution from the egf, following the redundancies of 615 workers at zaklady chemiczne zachem and two suppliers, zachem urc sp z.o.o. and metalko sp z.o.o., linked to the cessation of production and reorganisation of zachem. the commission notes that the restructuring plan for the company zachem was submitted by the polish authorities on 20 july 2013 and that the restructuring plan was submitted by the polish authorities on 20 july 2013. i therefore support the rapporteur jan olbricht's report on the mobilisation of eur 115 205 - 50% of the total budget - as it aims to help displaced workers to train and re-skill for new jobs.
written. ‒ i support this resolution as poland submitted an application egf/2013/009 pl/zachem for a financial contribution from the egf following the redundancies of 615 workers in zaklady chemiczne zachem and two suppliers, which is related to the cessation of production and reorganisation of zachem, which operates in section 20 of the nace 2 classification production of chemicals and chemical products. the application complies with the eligibility criteria set out in the egf regulation and poland is entitled to a financial contribution in accordance with the regulation.
on 9 october 2013, poland submitted an application to mobilise the egf, in respect of redundancies in zachen, which had until then been the largest employer in the region. this is also evidenced by the fact that, after the above-mentioned redundancies, unemployment in the bydgoszcz regional office increased and the redundancies accounted for 60% of all newly registered workers. i support this report as the request submitted by poland fulfils all the necessary assumptions and has been supplemented by updated data by 16 june 2014. given that egf contributions are intended to co-finance active labour market measures and their application leads to long-term employment, and that past practice has shown that they also have a significant impact on the acquisition of skills and competences of workers, i consider that the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund should be allowed. all of the above is compounded by the fact that the polish government itself started providing services tailored to the needs of workers before the present application was submitted.
the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) was established to provide support for workers made redundant and self-employed persons whose activity has ceased as a result of major structural changes in world trade patterns caused by globalisation. on 29 july 2014, germany submitted an application to mobilise the egf, in respect of redundancies in aleo solar ag and its two subsidiaries in germany. since they meet all the conditions, i will support the ep's decision.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution of the european parliament on the proposal from the parliament and the council to mobilise the european globalisation adjustment fund in favour of the german company aleo solar ag and its two subsidiaries, because they are affected by the global trends of globalisation which directly affect the workers of the companies and affect the welfare of certain regions. the commission also found that the union industry's sales volume to unrelated customers in the union increased by more than 10% during the period considered. i welcome the adoption of a package of services tailored to the needs of workers, which will implement measures aimed at reintegrating workers into the labour market and support the recognition of workers' skills and tailor-made training programmes. in such cases, an active union contribution is important, which can certainly support and encourage the reintegration of dismissed workers.
written. ‒ i supported the report on the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund in the case of the german solar company aleo solar which was forced to lay off 657 employees from march 2014 to july 2014 due to the impact of the economic crisis. the commission established the profitability of the sampled union producers by expressing the pre-tax net profit of the sales of the like product to unrelated customers in the union as a percentage of the turnover of those sales. the figures that confirm this are the decrease of the german revenue share in this market from 64% to 21% in the period 2005 to 2011, while the chinese revenue share increased from 11% to 45% in the same period. the commission also found that the union industry was not able to compete with the chinese exporting producers. the commission adopted a proposal for a decision in december 2014 to mobilise the european globalisation adjustment fund to the tune of almost eur 1,1 million (which is 60% of the total resources needed to implement the plan) for a german company. of the 657 laid off, 467 former employees will participate in the plan, of which 214 are women and 332 are in the 30 to 54 age group.
written. ‒ in the period 2005 to 2011, the solar module business sector increased from usd 21 billion to usd 36 billion, an increase of 79%. however, chinese and taiwanese companies have faster and higher revenue growth than german and us companies. the commission also found that the chinese exporting producers did not provide any evidence that the measures were in line with the union interest. the commission notes that the commission did not provide any information on the costs of the measures in question. the commission notes that the commission has not provided any information on the amount of the aid granted to the beneficiary. the commission also found that the company had a significantly higher turnover than the sampled union producers. aleo solar is going into liquidation, and its facilities are being closed or sold. the request concerns 390 high-tech workers at aleo solar ag during the four-month reference period and 267 high-tech workers from their subsidiaries during the same period considered. the commission therefore proposes to mobilise the egf in the amount of eur 1 094 760 representing 60% of the total cost of the proposed measures in order to provide a financial contribution for the implementation.
written. ‒ i support the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) to help germany with its technological surplus in the solar module industry of eur 1 094 760, representing 60% of the total cost of the proposed measures. member countries need to show solidarity with each other when needed and i am glad that they have shown that today by this example. the commission also found that the union industry had a significant market share in the union market, which was much higher than the union industry's market share. the redundancies at aleo solar ag will have a negative impact on the city of prenzlau and the land of brandenburg, where per capita income is well below the national average and unemployment rates of 15,5% and 16,4% are the highest in germany. renewable energy is europe's future, and we must do everything we can to encourage its development and help it when it is in difficulty.
written. ‒ at a time when europe is facing a financial, economic and social crisis with unemployment as its key consequence, the european union should use all the means at its disposal to respond, especially in terms of providing support to people who have lost their jobs. germany submitted an application to mobilise the egf in the form of an application for a financial contribution from the egf in respect of redundancies in the following sectors: the company's redundancies are linked to major structural changes in world trade flows caused by globalisation, given that between 2005 and 2011 china's share of revenue increased from 11% to 45%, while germany's share fell from 64% to 21%. at the same time, the redundancies will have a markedly negative impact on the city of prenzlau and the state of brandenburg, where per capita income is far below the national average and unemployment rates, at 15.5% and 16.44%, are the highest in germany. i therefore support the report by rapporteur iris hoffmann on the mobilisation of € 1 094 760, representing 60% of the total budget, to help displaced workers to be trained and re-qualified for new jobs.
written. ‒ i support this resolution as germany has submitted an application egf/2014/014 de/aleo solar for a financial contribution from the egf following the redundancies of 657 persons, 390 of them from aleo solar ag, which is engaged in nace 2 division 26 activities computer and electronic and optical products manufacturing. the application complies with the eligibility criteria set out in the egf regulation and germany is entitled to a financial contribution in accordance with the regulation.
written. given that the eu has established certain legislative and budgetary instruments adapted to provide assistance to workers following major structural changes, union financial assistance to workers made redundant should be as effective as possible. germany submitted an application for a financial contribution from the egf, in respect of redundancies in the computer, electronic and optical products business of aleo solar ag, and met all the criteria set out in the application. the commission notes that the restructuring plan for the company was submitted by the german authorities on 1 january 2013. i support this report because the egf does not exceed the maximum annual amount and i believe that a mobilisation should be allowed in this case.
written. ‒ the redundancies at duferco and nlmk will have a negative impact on the hainaut region, a former mining and steel industry area where employment is heavily dependent on traditional heavy industry and the public sector. the low level of education of jobseekers (51% have no secondary school education, compared to 47% in wallonia) creates an additional barrier to finding a job. as the request complies with the egf rules, i support the ep's decision.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the european parliament resolution on the proposal for a decision of the parliament and of the council on the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund to make redundancies in duferco and nlmk possible because of the negative impact on the belgian region of hainaut, where unemployment is higher than the walloon average and where heavy industry and the public sector are dependent. i support the involvement of the social partners and organisations in the process of coordinating and implementing support measures and a coordinated package of services tailored to the needs because redundancies in the metal industry lead to the necessary re-skilling of workers so that they are able to find work in other sectors. i believe it is of the utmost importance that the financial contribution from the globalisation adjustment fund should only co-finance measures that lead to long-term employment and are aimed at countering the negative global flows of globalisation. therefore, i support these support measures concerning the steel sector, which has already been the subject of five similar requests and has been affected by the consequences of the trends of globalisation and the world financial crisis.
‒ the european commission adopted last year a proposal to mobilise the european globalisation adjustment fund to help 708 workers made redundant in 2013 from belgian companies duferco and nlmk. the commission established the profitability of the sampled union producers by expressing the pre-tax net profit of the sales of the like product to unrelated customers in the union as a percentage of the turnover of those sales. the commission also found that the union industry's sales volume and market share increased by more than 10% during the period considered. the amount requested is 50% of the total resources for the implementation of the redundancy scheme. they face problems in their job search due to their low level of qualifications, as more than 50% of them do not have a secondary education. the aid is intended to be provided through individual assistance in job search, education and training for the purpose of re-skilling and through the promotion of self-employment. i supported the report by mr plenkovic and the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund for 708 dismissed belgian citizens, as this will make it easier for them to find new jobs and the growth in employment will also have a positive impact on the standard of living of the entire belgian region.
written. ‒ the belgian authorities argue that the steel sector has experienced a serious economic disruption, in particular a rapid decline in its share of the eu market. the commission established the profitability of the sampled union producers by expressing the pre-tax net profit of the sales of the like product to unrelated customers in the union as a percentage of the turnover of those sales. this led to a decrease in the eu-27 market shares of the production of crude steel, measured in terms of volume, from 16,6% in 2006 to 11,7% in 2011 (- 29,4%, - 6,7% annual growth). the commission established the profitability of the union industry by expressing the pre-tax net profit of the sales of the like product to unrelated customers in the union as a percentage of the turnover of those sales. the commission also found that the union industry was not able to compete with the union industry on the union market. the commission notes that the commission has not provided any information on the number of employees of the duferco group in the period from 1 january 2013 to 31 december 2013. the proposed contribution from the egf to the coordinated package of personalised services is eur 981 956, representing 50% of the total cost.
written. ‒ i support the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) to help belgium with a technological surplus in the steel sector of eur 981 956, representing 50% of the total cost. the belgian authorities argue that the steel sector has suffered a serious economic disruption characterised by a rapid decline in the eu's market share. the commission also found that the average price of the product concerned in the union market was lower than the average price of the product concerned in the union market. the commission established the profitability of the union industry by expressing the pre-tax net profit of the sales of the like product to unrelated customers in the union as a percentage of the turnover of those sales. the commission notes that the commission has not provided any information on the amount of the aid granted to duferco. the commission notes that the commission has not provided any information on the amount of the aid granted to duferco. member countries need to show solidarity with each other when needed and i am glad that they have shown that today by this example.
written. ‒ at a time when europe is facing a financial, economic and social crisis with unemployment as a key consequence, the eu should use all the means at its disposal to respond, especially in terms of providing support to people who have lost their jobs. belgium submitted an application egf/2013/007 be/hainaut steel for a financial contribution from the egf, following the redundancies of 708 workers at the sites of two companies, namely the closure of the dufreco site and the reduction of the staff at the nlmk site. the commission established the profitability of the union industry by expressing the pre-tax net profit of the sales of the like product to unrelated customers in the union as a percentage of the turnover of those sales. the redundancies at dufreco and nmlk will have a negative impact on the hainaut region, a former mining and steel industry area, where the unemployment rate was 17,7% and the low level of education of jobseekers (51% without a high school diploma) creates an additional obstacle to finding a job. i therefore support the report on the mobilisation of eur 981 956, which is 50% of the total budget, which will have a concrete impact on the many workers who have become technological surplus in the steel sector in the hainaut region.
written. ‒ i support this resolution as belgium has submitted an application egf/2013/007 be/hainaut steel for a financial contribution from the egf following the redundancies of 708 workers at the sites of these two companies, due to the closure of the duferco site and the reduction of staff at the nlmk site, which are engaged in activities falling under nace division 2 'manufacture of metals' 24. the application complies with the eligibility criteria set out in the egf regulation and belgium is entitled to a financial contribution under the regulation.
written. belgium has submitted an application for a financial contribution from the egf in respect of redundancies in two metalworking companies in la louviere, hainaut, involving 708 workers. these facts have led to a decrease in the union market share in the steel production sector and belgium should receive financial contributions under the egf regulation. the belgian authorities had already provided rapid assistance to the workers before this request was made and a number of social partners and organisations of these companies participated in the general coordination and implementation of the measures. the unions also participate directly in the work of the new jobs section. having regard to the letters from the committee on employment and social affairs and the committee on regional development and the report of the committee on budgets, i consider that the belgian request to mobilise the european globalisation adjustment fund is justified and should be adopted, and therefore i support this report.
‒ belgium has applied for a financial contribution from the egf following the redundancies of 1285 workers at arcelormittal liège sa and it is expected that during the reference period from 1 january 2014 to 1 may 2014, 910 workers will be covered by measures relating to serious economic disturbances, in particular a significant reduction in the union market share. as the application meets the eligibility criteria set out in the egf regulation, i support the ep's decision to grant them funds.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution of the european parliament on the proposal for a decision of the parliament and of the council on the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund in the event of the dismissal of 1285 workers of the belgian company arcelormittal liège s.a. as this will have major consequences for the metallurgical sector which gravitates around the city of liège. i believe that the competitiveness of the european union steel sector needs to be enhanced by an efficient and coordinated approach that will counteract the marked decline in raw steel production in the member states and the changes in world trade flows. in order to facilitate the rapid reintegration of dismissed workers into the labour market, it is important to enable them to be recognised for the skills and competences they have acquired during their professional career by providing concrete support and guidance measures. i believe that the biggest driver of global competitiveness is innovation, which needs to be further stimulated, empowered and strengthened in the form of job preservation.
written. ‒ this report concerns a request to mobilise the european globalisation adjustment fund in the case of the belgian company arcelormittal liège, which is one of many in the steel industry with a large fall in market share in the european union as a result of the financial and economic crisis. the commission also found that the union industry was able to increase its sales volumes by more than 50% during the period considered. the commission also notes that the commission has not provided any information on the number of employees who have been made redundant. the request of that company concerns the mobilisation of almost eur 1,6 million. the coordinated package of the european globalisation adjustment fund is intended to co-finance active measures divided into three groups: redeployment, training and re-skilling and promotion of self-employment, with a view to reintegrating workers into the labour market. in this case, the number of people to be covered by the measures is 910, of which 803 are in the age group of 30 to 54. i support the report on the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund as it aims to co-finance measures that are of particular importance to the steel industry as workers are trained for a narrow area where they can no longer find employment because production facilities are closing.
written. ‒ belgium argued that the steel sector, managed by arcelormittal liège sa, had suffered a serious economic disruption, in particular a rapid decline in its share of the eu market. the commission established the profitability of the union industry by expressing the pre-tax net profit of the sales of the like product to unrelated customers in the union as a percentage of the turnover of those sales. the commission established the profitability of the sampled union producers by expressing the pre-tax net profit of the sales of the like product to unrelated customers in the union as a percentage of the turnover of those sales. on the other hand, there was a large increase in asia's share in the same period, from 56% to 67% . the commission recalls that the union industry was not able to obtain sufficient spare capacity to meet the demand for iron ore. the request concerns 1 285 workers who were technological surplus at arcelormittal liège sa working in the economic sector, and 752 workers who were technological surplus in enterprises during the reference period of four months. the proposed contribution from the egf to the coordinated package of personalised services is eur 1 591 486, representing 60% of the total cost of the proposed measures to provide a financial contribution for the implementation.
written. ‒ i support the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) to help belgium with a surplus in the steel sector of eur 1 591 486. since the start of the egf in 2007, four egf applications have been registered for the steel sector. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's macro-financial assistance and the implementation of the union's macro-financial assistance. the request concerns 1 285 technological surplus workers at arcelormittal liège sa who worked in the economic sector of nkd division 24 ('metals production'). member states need to show solidarity with each other when needed, and i am glad that they have shown that today by this example.
written. ‒ the european globalisation adjustment fund was established to provide additional support to workers affected by the consequences of major structural changes in international trade and to help them reintegrate into the labour market and find a new job. at a time when europe is facing a financial, economic and social crisis with unemployment as its key consequence, the european union should use all the means at its disposal to respond, in particular in terms of providing support to people who have lost their jobs. belgium submitted an application to mobilise the egf in the form of an egf decision in respect of the redundancies in the steel industry in the steel industry in belgium. the commission also found that the union industry had a significant market share in the union market, which was much higher than the union industry's market share. the commission notes that the measures in question are not imputable to the state, but to the state and are imputable to the state. i therefore support the report of rapporteur victor negrescu on the mobilisation of eur 1 591 486 to help displaced workers to be trained and re-qualified for new jobs in line with the real needs of the labour market in the affected region.
written. ‒ i support this resolution as belgium has submitted an application egf/2014/012 be/arcelormittal for a financial contribution from the egf following the redundancies of 1285 workers in arcelormittal liège s.a. engaged in activities falling within nace 2 division 24 'manufacture of metals'. the application complies with the eligibility criteria set out in the egf regulation and belgium is entitled to a financial contribution under the regulation.
written. in accordance with point 13 of the interinstitutional agreement of 2 december 2013 between the european parliament, the council and the commission on cooperation in budgetary matters and on sound financial management, belgium has submitted an application for financial contributions from the egf, in respect of redundancies in the enterprise arcelor mittal liege s.a. of 1285 workers, linked to international developments, accompanied by additional information. i support this report because it is a situation foreseen by the european globalisation adjustment fund itself, whose purpose is to enable displaced workers to reintegrate into the labour market if it is caused by a long-term or new global financial and economic crisis as foreseen by regulation (ec) no 546/2009. the coordinated package of personalised services for which co-financing is sought shall cover the redeployment of workers, training and re-skilling, and the promotion of entrepreneurship. the commission considers that the belgian authorities have not provided any evidence that the measure is imputable to the state.
written. - the shutdown of the caterpillar will have an extremely negative impact on the charleroi region. the dismissed workers will have difficulty finding new jobs in unfavourable economic conditions, given that they are low-skilled. the commission notes that the measures are designed to reduce the number of employees who are dismissed and to reduce the number of employees who are dismissed. the commission has also proposed that the egf should be used to finance the construction of a new nuclear power plant in the eu.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the european parliament resolution on the proposal for a decision of the parliament and of the council on the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund because i believe that the fastest, most effective and most dynamic redundancy assistance is needed in caterpillar belgium s.a. in order to prevent, as far as possible, negative consequences in the charleroi region. i also welcome the fact that the belgian authorities have launched the implementation of services tailored to the needs of the affected workers before applying for financial assistance from the globalisation adjustment fund, in order to alleviate the difficult labour market situation in that region. it is also of particular importance that the provisions of the egf regulation are targeted at young people who are without training opportunities and who are unemployed in order to assist them with concrete measures to integrate into the labour market.
written. ‒ this report concerns the request for mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund in the case of the belgian steel industry, namely the trading company caterpillar, which made 663 redundancies in the period 1 january to 30 april 2014 and 367 more after that period. the caterpillar trading company specialises in car assembly, the production of components and the production of soldered assemblies and structures. its products are exclusively targeted at the construction and mining industries. caterpillar opened its facilities in asia and latin america in 2007, although their main market is the european union and they depended on public and private investments in europe's infrastructure, which decreased and demand fell by 40% in 2011. of the target group of 630 unemployed to be assisted, more than 65% are aged between 30 and 54 and as many as 59% have no secondary education. the amount requested from the egf is set at around eur 1,2 million and is intended for activities to assist citizens in the employment, education and training, and entrepreneurship and self-employment processes. i supported the report, which aims to boost employment in the walloon region, where the unemployment rate is over 55%, and to help citizens to train for new jobs.
the commission notes that the belgian authorities have not provided any evidence that the measures in question were necessary to restore the viability of the company. caterpillar gosselies, the plant specializes in automotive assembly, manufacturing components, soldered assemblies and structures. its products are exclusively targeted at the european market and the mining industry. the commission notes that the caterpillar group has been operating in emerging economies in asia and latin america since 2007 and that its growth is mainly linked to these markets. the commission also found that the chinese exporting producers had a significant market share in the union market. this is related to the overall growth of the asian economy, especially in china and india, and the construction industry in those countries. the volume of new orders decreased by 40% in 2011. the claim relates to the compensation of 663 workers who became redundant in the company during the reference period from 1 january 2014 to 30 april 2014. the proposed contribution from the egf to the coordinated package of personalised services is eur 1 222 854, representing 60% of the total cost of the proposed measures in order to provide a financial contribution for the implementation.
written. ‒ i support the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) to help belgium with a technological surplus in the machinery manufacturing sector of eur 1 222 854, representing 60% of the total costs. the commission notes that the belgian authorities have not provided any evidence that the measures in question were necessary to restore the viability of the company. caterpillar gosseliesu is specialized in the assembly of cars, the production of components, assemblies and structures. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's macro-financial assistance and the implementation of the union's macro-financial assistance.
written. ‒ the egf was established to provide additional support to workers who have been affected by the consequences of major structural changes in international trade and to help them reintegrate into the labour market and find a new job. belgium submitted an application to mobilise the egf in the form of an egf decision in respect of the redundancies in the steel industry in the steel industry in belgium. the caterpillar trading company specialises in car assembly, the production of components and the production of soldered assemblies and structures. the redundancies are linked to major structural changes in world trade flows caused by globalisation, as goods have become cheaper to produce in asia and import than to produce in europe for a declining market. the commission notes that the aid granted to the walloon region was granted in the form of a grant of eur [...] per hectare, which was granted in the form of a grant of eur [...] per hectare. i therefore support the report by rapporteur anneli jäätteenmäki on the mobilisation of eur 1 222 854, representing 60% of the total budget, as it aims to help dismissed workers to train and re-qualify for new jobs.
written. ‒ i support this resolution as belgium has submitted an application egf/2014/011 be/caterpillar for a financial contribution from the egf following the redundancies of 1030 workers in caterpillar belgium s.a. engaged in nace 2 division 28 activities 'manufacture of machinery and equipment, n.e.c.' the application complies with the eligibility criteria set out in the egf regulation and belgium is entitled to a financial contribution under the regulation.
written. i support this report because it concerns a request to transfer eur 1 222 854 from the european globalisation adjustment fund to belgium for the purpose of providing severance pay to caterpillar workers. the caterpillar layoffs are the result of major structural changes in world trade caused by globalisation, which has made it significantly cheaper for the company to manufacture and import equipment from asia to europe. we also see that the demand for construction machinery has weakened as a result of lower private and public investment in infrastructure, all as a result of the weakening of the global economy. the majority of workers are low-skilled and it is therefore important to improve the employability of all workers through various training, recognition of skills and competences acquired by the worker throughout his professional career.
written. ‒ i voted against the draft decision on the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund, which is based on a request by belgium for a financial contribution of eur 1 222 854 to support 663 redundant caterpillar workers. in this case, the negative impact on enterprises as a result of competition from emerging economies is shown, but i believe that it is precisely in such cases that countries should approach genuine market liberalisation which, together with a responsible fiscal policy, will enable enterprises to achieve a higher level of competitiveness and sustainable operations. therefore, i consider that such one-off measures relating to training, retraining and case management do not represent a solution that would reflect on the achievement of long-term growth and job creation and that they may create an additional obstacle in the further face of the economic crisis. i would point out that it is primarily the responsibility of the member states to create policies that will allow for certain financing models to prevent companies from closing down or moving to a market outside the eu.
written. ‒ i support this report, which was unanimously adopted by the committee. the new directive will contribute to co2 reduction, fuel savings and, most importantly, road safety. improved aerodynamics of the cabs of motor vehicles allow for significant improvements in the energy performance of the vehicle and the possibility to equip the vehicle with a new cab design will contribute to improving road safety by reducing blind spots in the driver's field of vision. in view of all the above, and the fact that member states are given a 24-month deadline for adaptation, i support this report by mr leichtfriede.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the draft legislative resolution of the european parliament on the council position at first reading with a view to adopting a directive of the european parliament and of the council amending directive 96/53/ec on the fixing of maximum authorised dimensions in national and international traffic and of maximum authorised weights in international traffic for certain road vehicles circulating within the community, as this improves road safety. i also support measures aimed at detecting vehicles that violate and exceed the relevant limits, adapting the relevant legislation to technological developments and exchanging information. i believe that effective coordination is needed to ensure compliance with the criteria and sanctions for infringement of the directive.
written. ‒ the proposed amendments to directive 96/53/ec on the fixing of maximum authorised dimensions in national and international traffic and of maximum authorised masses in international traffic for certain road vehicles circulating within the community will allow manufacturers to exceed the current design of truck cabs in order to increase the safety and environmental performance of these vehicles. the more aerodynamic design of the truck cabs would increase the driver's field of vision and mitigate the consequences in the event of an accident. the more aerodynamic appearance would also reduce drag and thus reduce fuel consumption, which would have a positive impact on the environment. amending this directive would allow manufacturers to install hybrid drive systems to further reduce pollution and therefore i supported the report on the dimensions and masses of road vehicles in the community.
written. ‒ i support measures aimed at reducing carbon dioxide emissions as well as reducing the consumption of fossil fuels for road transport. however, the question is how much these aerodynamic devices, which will be installed on the rear or cab of the truck, will cost in terms of purchase and installation and how long it will take for them to pay off financially in terms of reducing fuel consumption. i support equipping vehicles with a new cab design to contribute to improving road safety by reducing blind spots in the driver's field of vision, which should help save the lives of many vulnerable road users such as pedestrians and cyclists. i support the introduction of alternative propulsion systems, which include hybrid propulsion systems, whose mass will not be additionally counted as part of the actual vehicle load. i welcome the need to give public transport priority over private transport in the interests of better energy efficiency, which means that it is necessary to regain the former number of passengers in bus transport, taking into account both the increase in their weight and the weight of their luggage.
written. ‒ the aim of changing the maximum authorised weight in road transport is to reduce energy consumption and greenhouse gas emissions, to adapt legislation to technological developments and to adapt to market needs and facilitate intermodal transport. the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions as well as the reduction of the consumption of petroleum products in the transport sector has become crucial, even crucial for road transport, which accounts for 82% of the energy consumption in the transport sector. in addition, the increase in fuel prices is driving the need to identify solutions to reduce vehicle fuel consumption and consequently reduce greenhouse gas emissions. the white paper on transport set a target of reducing greenhouse gas emissions by 60% by 2050 compared to 1990 levels. in this context, it announced a revision of the 1996 directive with a view to introducing more energy-efficient vehicles on the eu market. energy efficiency must be one of the priorities of the european union, which is why i support the report by mr leichtfriede and the objectives it sets.
written. ‒ in order to protect the environment, increase energy efficiency and reduce fossil fuel consumption, the council has accepted waste heat as one of the main sources of alternative fuels. the use of alternative sources reduces environmental pollution but has an impact on the increase in the total mass of the vehicle. in the case of intermodal transport of containers of 45 feet in length, trailers and semi-trailers 15 cm longer than the length of the container are placed on the market and the transport of which required special permits. in order to maximise energy efficiency, motor vehicles shall be equipped with aerodynamic retractors or retractable aerodynamic devices attached to the rear of the vehicle. the new cab design should have increased aerodynamic performance, which, in addition to the energy factor, greatly improves the overall road safety of the vehicle and the driver's comfort. the commission should be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 290 tfeu concerning the definition of the criteria for the recognition of the right to the protection of personal data. i therefore support the report by mr leichtfriede and the directive and believe that technical adaptations should be introduced, fuel consumption and co2 emissions reduced, road infrastructure protected and free competition ensured.
written. ‒ i supported the report on the dimensions and masses of road vehicles in circulation within the community because i believe it is essential to emphasise the need to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, in particular carbon dioxide (co2) emissions, and to improve road safety by adapting the relevant legislation to technological developments and changing market needs. the above affects the strengthening of the sustainable growth of the community as a whole. although at first glance the dimensions and masses of road vehicles are not directly related to the above, the fact is that a better vehicle design will result in less air resistance and thus less fuel consumption, which ultimately means less greenhouse gas emissions and less pollution. considering that the transition to alternative propulsion systems involves a system that draws energy from batteries or other electrical energy storage devices for the purposes of mechanical propulsion, we will also see how their use in heavy goods vehicles or buses also increases the mass of the vehicle. in addition to environmental efficiency, i believe that the implementation of the directive would also contribute to road safety, as new designs, such as rounded cabs, would increase the driver's visibility and make it easier to spot other road users. in view of the aforementioned effective possibilities, i call on the member states to cooperate effectively at international level in which the european institutions will be informed of the checks carried out by their competent authorities in road transport.
written. ‒ i support this resolution which aims to allow the installation of retractable or folding aerodynamic devices at the rear of the vehicle, thereby enabling significant improvements in the energy performance of the vehicle. the fitting of a vehicle with a new cab design would contribute to improving road safety by reducing blind spots in the driver's field of vision, including those under the windscreen, and should help save the lives of many vulnerable road users such as pedestrians or cyclists. the road components of intermodal transport activities can currently only be carried out if both member states and carriers implement complex administrative procedures or if these containers have patented embossed edges, which creates extremely high costs. the increase of the authorised length of vehicles carrying such containers by 15 cm could relieve carriers of those administrative procedures and facilitate intermodal transport activities without endangering or harming the road infrastructure or other road users.
written. i support this report because it defines weight limits for alternative fuel vehicles. the council accepted waste heat as a type of alternative fuel and added weight for three-axle buses using alternative fuels. the transport procedure for transporting one or more containers or interchangeable boxes up to a total maximum length of 45 feet is also defined. the manufacture of longer cabs is allowed if they are more energy efficient and safer. the commission will reassess the directive 3 years after its implementation in national legislation.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the proposal for a directive of the european parliament and of the council amending directive 96/53/ec on the determination of the dimensions and weights of certain road vehicles circulating within the community. adapting legislation to changing market needs as well as technological developments is necessary to regulate the road transport sector effectively and to guarantee its safety. the proposal emphasises the need to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, and in particular carbon dioxide emissions, in order to contribute to the objectives of the white paper on transport and to ensure energy efficiency. the proposal also highlights provisions aimed at improving working conditions and the protection of road users, all with the aim of improving safety. i think that member states should retain the right to create transport solutions that are appropriate to the conditions on their territory. i also support the provisions that highlight the need for efficient and high-quality inspection supervision in order to improve energy efficiency and aerodynamics of vehicles, and to improve road safety.
madam president, in addition to structural reforms and fiscal consolidation, europe needs investments, primarily private investments, to increase the innovation and competitiveness of the european union. the european commission, together with the member states, is trying to stimulate investment and increase the level of investment in projects in different ways: from union programmes through european funds to the new european fund for strategic investments, and the regulation we have just supported on european long-term investment funds. this is all we need for further economic growth and development at eu level. the european long-term investment funds will channel additional resources from professional investors, but also from local units and savers, to long-term projects in the fields of research and development, energy, education and transport. the commission will also be able to obtain additional funding for smes.
written. ‒ the elif is designed to broaden the range of support for businesses and to help projects that require long-term capital. the proposal respects the geographical distribution of resources. the deal with the council is not perfect, but it's acceptable.
written. ‒ i supported the resolution on european long-term investment funds as a first step in channelling the necessary funds into long-term investment in the real economy. a successful european economy requires the creation of a single capital market. these financial instruments create an investment framework that crosses national borders. the commission should also be able to use the union's financial instruments to support the implementation of the union's macro-financial assistance.
written. ‒ this agreement provides another tool in the fight to boost investment and growth in europe. the european long-term investment funds (eltifs) will facilitate long-term projects and businesses wishing to expand with the access funds they need to do so. the commission will also contribute to the eu investment plan as an element of the capital markets union. the eltifs will serve as a link between all types of investors willing to invest in projects and companies that have long-term needs. eltifs could also serve as an additional driver in public or public-private investments in this form. i particularly support the regulation strengthening the protection of retail investors as it provides that for retail investors whose portfolio does not exceed eur 500 000, the manager of the eltif or any distributor should, after a fitness test and after providing appropriate investment advice, ensure that the retail investor does not invest a total amount exceeding 10% of the investor's portfolio in eltifs and that the initial amount invested in one or more eltifs is not less than eur 10 000. the commission shall be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 264 concerning the establishment of a european data protection supervisor.
written. ‒ the creation of a new regulatory framework for the european fund for long-term investment will provide the funds needed to invest in the european union economy. by setting concrete and clear rules that the fund will only finance long-term projects that will benefit the economy and enable the european union to grow, they give confidence that the objective will be achieved. the additional dimension of transparency and security of this fund is that it would be managed by entrepreneurs authorised in accordance with directive 2011/61/eu. the commission shall, by means of implementing acts, lay down the rules on the application of this regulation, in particular the rules on the application of article 10 of regulation (eu) no 1095/2010. the eltif provides all member states, including croatia, with the possibility to use the funds to finance sustainable production and infrastructure, education and research projects, which are key tools in achieving sustainable growth, high employment and competitiveness. i therefore support the supplementary report by mr alain lamassoure and welcome all the efforts of the council, the commission and parliament.
written. ‒ in order to achieve sustainable and smart growth for the european economy as a whole, i supported the supplementary report on the european long-term investment funds. the european union has financial resources that can boost shared economic growth, but they need to be properly allocated. the commission should be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 290 tfeu concerning the conditions for the participation of undertakings in the european investment bank's capital adequacy assessment. the commission has also received comments from the croatian authorities, which have not provided any information on the measures taken by the croatian authorities to address the concerns expressed by the croatian authorities. so i think that the funds that i just mentioned should have a focus on small and medium-sized enterprises. for the above reason, i call on the competent authorities to supervise the allocation and implementation of funds to ensure that retail investors are on an equal footing with professional investors.
written. ‒ long-term financing is a key tool to enable the european economy to return to a path of smart, sustainable and inclusive growth in line with the europe 2020 strategy, high employment and competitiveness, and to build the economy of tomorrow in a way that is less prone to systemic risks and more resilient. the european long-term investment funds (eltifs) provide long-term financing for various infrastructure projects, unlisted companies or listed smes that issue equity or debt instruments for which there is no direct buyer. by providing financial resources for those projects, the european long-term investment funds contribute to the financing of the real economy in the union and the implementation of its policies. the focus of this regulation is to strengthen european long-term investment in the real economy, and i therefore support it.
written. i support this report on the capital increase for long-term investments with the creation of eltifs (european long-term investment funds). eltifs should comply with directive 2011/61/eu, which is the legal framework governing the management and trading of alternative investment funds (aifs) in the union. eltifs are defined as eu alternative investment funds managed by alternative investment fund managers (aifms) authorised to operate in accordance with directive 2011/61/eu. the proposal contains two categories of possible investments; long-term investments and long-term investments whose successful development requires a long-term commitment of the investor.
‒ european long-term investment funds are certainly a financing model that can effectively deliver long-term projects with the objectives of smart, sustainable and inclusive growth. it is important to emphasise that investment in the real economy across europe, as well as in individual member states, can only be stimulated if favourable conditions and a stable investment climate are created that will encourage entrepreneurs to take further steps towards economic and infrastructure objectives. the rules on european long-term investment funds should primarily encourage entrepreneurship, transparency and the development of a stable fiscal policy with a minimum administrative burden in order to allow for recovery and economic recovery. economic development therefore presupposes that entrepreneurs can operate in a healthy business environment that will not be burdened by huge bureaucracy and regulations, but also the development of other financing models that will provide business entities with stability and predictability in addition to investment funds. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's macro-financial assistance in the context of the union's macro-financial assistance. that's why i endorsed this report.
written. ‒ in retail, the average consumer is unaware that credit card charges are included in the price of the product. the fee cap will affect 95% of all card payments and mean savings to customers of just over €730 million per year. the commission also notes that the commission has not provided any information on the level of the credit risk of the credit card. this is very good news for consumers in croatia, especially when you consider that there are twice as many credit cards in croatia as there are people. unlike germans who pay a card transaction fee of 1.8 percent, or danes who pay 0.1 percent, in croatia the card transaction costs reach up to 5 percent. the end result will be greater consumer protection, lower prices for goods and services, and big savings for both consumers and traders.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of adopting a position on the proposal for a regulation of the parliament and of the council on interchange fees for card-based payment transactions, as i believe that this contributes to the removal of barriers, further integration of a fragmented european market, and contributes to respecting competition rules. the commission notes that the commission has not provided any evidence that the measures in question are imputable to the state.
written. ‒ i supported the report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on interchange fees for card-based payment transactions. i believe that this regulation will create an integrated and transparent market for cross-border and domestic card payments and thus reduce the fragmentation of the internal market. in particular, this regulation will introduce maximum limits for interchange fees for payment transactions in card payments. the commission notes that the bank's credit rating is based on the credit rating of the bank's credit rating agency. trilateral payment card schemes, such as american express and diners, and commercial cards intended for business expenses, will be exempted from this regulation. the introduction of a cap on interchange fees for card-based payment transactions will reduce costs for merchants by eur 6 billion annually and thus reduce costs for citizens.
written. ‒ i fully support the limitation of interbank fees for payment transactions made with cards, according to which the maximum fee for a debit card would be 0.2% and for a credit card 0.3%. the existing administrative decisions differ significantly in some member states. it is necessary to remove obstacles to the efficient functioning of the card market, including in the area of card-based payments and mobile and internet card-based payments. compared with more developed countries of the european union, such as france, italy and the netherlands, croatia has significantly higher fees for interbank card transactions. the commission also found that the average price of the product was higher in the union than in the union. this will eliminate discrimination against consumers on the basis of the place of purchase. the commission notes that the commission has not yet received any comments from the croatian authorities on the compatibility of the aid with the internal market. the fragmentation of the internal market distorts competition, growth and job creation within the union. the removal of direct and indirect obstacles to the proper functioning and the establishment of an integrated market for electronic payments, without distinction between national and cross-border payments, is necessary for the proper functioning of the internal market.
written. ‒ i support the report by mr bidegain because i believe that this regulation will lead to the removal of direct and indirect obstacles that fragment and prevent the establishment and proper functioning of the electronic payment market. as electronic payment cards are the most common retail payment instrument, the introduction and application of regulatory measures such as a cap of 0,2% calculated on the basis of the average annual value of transactions of a system, for interchange fees will make the system consistent and help to address non-compliance on the way to full market integration. the opening up of the market to pan-european service providers will result in increased competition, thus contributing to an increase in the quality of services and a reduction in prices, ultimately benefiting the end-users. by requiring payment service providers to report, in order to ensure that all relevant information is available to competent authorities, it will make the system transparent. as this regulation aims at equalising fees for cross-border payments in euro with payments within member states, the positive effects of this regulation will be felt by all citizens of the european union, including croatia, through increased consumer protection and lower fees.
written. ‒ to enable the effective functioning of the internal market, the use of electronic payments needs to be improved and facilitated for the benefit of traders and consumers. cards and other electronic payments can be used in a more diverse way, including online payment options to take advantage of the internal market and e-commerce, while electronic payments also provide merchants with potentially secure payments. this regulation establishes uniform technical and business conditions for card-based payment transactions executed within the union where both the payer's payment service provider and the payee's payment service provider are located in the union. interchange fees are the main part of the fees charged by payment service providers acting as the payee to merchants for each card-based payment transaction. in order to facilitate the smooth functioning of the internal market in card-based payments and in online and mobile card-based payments, for the benefit of consumers and merchants, this regulation should apply to the cross-border and domestic issuance and acceptance of card-based payment transactions and i therefore supported the report.
written. i support this report because this regulation, together with the proposed revised payment services directive, should create common rules for interchange fees in the european union, thereby introducing maximum fees for transactions with cards that are widely used by consumers and are difficult to refuse or charge by merchants. the regulation would thus introduce more transparency, while allowing both consumers and traders to be better informed in their choice of payment method. the cap introduced for interchange fees will apply equally to domestic and cross-border card payments and should cut costs for cardholders. the commission notes that the commission has not provided any information on the amount of the credit line to the bank. for domestic transactions, member states may introduce a limit of 0,2 % of the annual weighted average transaction value of all total domestic transactions within the card system. for credit card transactions, the agreement is 0.3% of the transaction value.
written. ‒ i supported the report on the regulation on interbank fees for card-based payment transactions which proposes transparent measures for merchants and consumers, but also for other entrepreneurs, ultimately contributing to the development of a regulatory and legislative framework on the basis of which obstacles to the establishment of an integrated card payment market can be overcome. ensuring efficient and secure electronic payment methods is essential for the establishment of a stable internal market in payment cards, as we are in a time of increasing abandonment of traditional forms of payment and the shift towards so-called e-commerce. therefore, i welcome the establishment of an upper limit for interchange fees for card-based payment transactions. i hope that traders will welcome such capping with a consequent reduction in retail prices and that those who have made money on the basis of unrealistic and unjustified fees will respect the spirit of this provision and will not try to compensate for this loss by increasing other fees or introducing new ones. as there are currently no regulations governing interchange fees in the european union, i call for increased supervision in the application of these regulations.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the european parliament resolution on the proposal for a decision of the parliament and of the council on the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund to cover the closure of saint-gobain sekurit group plants in order to ensure a prompt response to unforeseeable circumstances affecting the workers made redundant. in this regard, simplification of procedures and reduction of deadlines for evaluation and implementation to expand the eligible beneficiaries and accelerate the mobilisation of the fund are key. i support the exchange of best practices regarding national information networks on the egf and the involvement of local and regional social partners and stakeholders who can certainly contribute to the quality implementation of the structure for the application of the egf. i also believe that the redundant workers of saint-gobain sekurit need to be retrained so that they can be reintegrated into the labour market as quickly and as easily as possible.
‒ the trading company sgs benelux is engaged in the production of safety glass for the automotive industry. this industry has suffered a serious economic disruption due to the decrease in production in the eu countries and the increase in imports of the same products into the union and the increase in market shares of competitors from non-eu countries, in particular turkey and china. the industry is specific and so its employees are qualified for a narrow field which makes it difficult for them to find new employment in other activities. the request related to the belgian company sgs benelux concerns aid for over 250 redundant employees in a short period of time. the amount requested from the egf is around eur 1,3 million to be used for the planned activities to help the unemployed. in addition to the costs of implementing the programme itself, the amount is divided into 4 types of aid: aid to individuals seeking new employment, education, support for entrepreneurial projects of individuals or groups and various allowances. i supported the report which aims to secure financial resources to help the large number of unemployed in the belgian automobile industry. although the number of redundancies is not more than 500, there is a possibility of a new wave of redundancies that will result in a total of more than 550 redundancies, creating serious consequences for the unemployment rate and the local community.
written. ‒ the production of safety glass for the automotive industry, in which saint-gobain sekurit (sgs) is active, has experienced a serious economic disruption as a result of several factors such as a decline in the production of automotive safety glass in the eu and an increase in the market shares of competitors from non-eu countries and an increase in imports of these products into the eu. between 2007 and 2012, passenger car production in the eu-27 decreased by 11,3%, - 2,4% annual growth, while in the rest of the world, it increased by 27,6% + 5,0% annual growth. ford, volvo and bmw, which were the main direct customers of sgs benelux, experienced a significant decrease in sales. the impact of these changes in the pattern of trade was exacerbated by other factors such as high production costs, overcapacity due to decreasing production levels and low levels of productive investment. the commission notes that the commission has not provided any information on the amount of compensation for the employees of sgs benelux, as the company had not provided any information on the amount of compensation for the employees of sgs benelux. the commission proposed a contribution from the egf to the coordinated package of personalised services of eur 1 339 928, representing 50% of the total cost of the action.
written. ‒ i support the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) to help belgium with its technological surplus in the production of safety glasses for the automotive industry for a harmonised package of services amounting to eur 1 339 928. between 2007 and 2012, passenger car production in the eu-27 decreased from 21,9 million to 19,5 million vehicles (- 11,3%, - 2,4% annual growth) while in the rest of the world it increased from 47,5 million to 60,6 million vehicles (+ 27,6%; + 5,0% annual growth). this decrease in the level of car production in the eu, which is linked to the general decrease in consumer demand (resulting from the economic crisis), has led to a general decrease in the demand for automotive equipment in the eu, which has severely affected automotive equipment suppliers. the commission notes that the commission has not provided any evidence that the measures in question were necessary to restore the viability of the company. this amount will at least partially mitigate the financial consequences of such a drop in production and sales, which is why i want to express my support once again.
written. ‒ the european globalisation adjustment fund was established to provide additional support to workers affected by the consequences of major structural changes in international trade and to help them reintegrate into the labour market and find a new job. at a time when europe is facing a financial, economic and social crisis with unemployment as its key consequence, the european union should use all the means at its disposal to respond, in particular in terms of providing support to people who have lost their jobs. belgium submitted an application egf/2013/011 be/saint-gobain sekurit for a financial contribution from the egf, following 257 redundancies linked to the closure of a plant of a saint-gobain sekurit group company located in auvelais, which produced safety glass for the automotive industry. the union industry suffered a serious economic disruption due to the decrease in production in the eu countries and the increase in imports of the same products into the union and the increase in market shares of competition from non-eu countries. i therefore support the rapporteur liadh ni riada's report on the mobilisation of eur 1 339 928, representing 50% of the total budget, to support the reintegration into the labour market of the surplus workers in sait-gobain sekurit.
written. ‒ i support this resolution as belgium has submitted an application egf/2013/011 be/saint-gobain sekurit for a financial contribution from the egf following 257 redundancies linked to the closure of a plant of the saint-gobain sekurit (sgs) group company located in auvelais, which produced safety glass for the automotive industry. the application does not meet the criteria set out in article 2 (a) and (b) of the egf regulation, but falls under the category of exceptional circumstances, which nevertheless allows the mobilisation of the egf and entitles belgium to a financial contribution in accordance with the regulation.
written. i support this report because the belgian authorities have released data on the automotive safety glass sector and they indicate a serious economic disruption, and are the result of several factors, the most important of which is the decline in production within the eu and the increase in imports of these products into the eu. the authorities also confirmed that the financial contributions from the egf will not replace measures which constitute the responsibility of undertakings under national law, nor will they be used for restructuring of undertakings or sectors. as regards the management and control system, the financial contribution from the egf will be managed by the same bodies as for the esf. they therefore submitted an application on 19 december 2013 in accordance with the egf regulation, which does not specify a deadline for examining the application. i support the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund and the provision of eur 1 339 928 in commitment appropriations to facilitate reintegration into the labour market in relation to redundancies at saint-gobain, belgium.
written. i voted against the draft decision on the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund, based on a request by belgium for a financial contribution of eur 1 339 928 to support workers made redundant following the closure of a saint-gobain group plant. i believe that such one-off measures are not the solution to long-term growth and job creation and that they may create an additional obstacle to coping with the economic crisis. the promotion of small and medium-sized enterprises, as well as support for enterprises facing difficulties due to structural changes caused by globalisation, growing competitive economies and severe social, economic and financial constraints, can only be achieved through a well-thought-out fiscal policy and an effective public administration that will provide support, rather than a brake, to further investment. i believe that it is primarily the responsibility of member states to create policies that will allow for alternative financing models to prevent companies from closing down or moving to markets outside the eu.
madam president, i voted against this report because i am in favor of equality for all and equal opportunity for all that this report does not promote. this report, apart from having the word equality in its title, does not follow the title unfortunately in its content. i am concerned that time and money are being wasted on reports like this, which we know in advance are contrary to fundamental eu principles such as subsidiarity. the members of this parliament, by producing and supporting reports like this, are undermining the principles and treaties that are supposed to protect us, which is leading to legal uncertainty and a breakdown of the rule of law. it concerns me as much as the failure to recognize the real problems that are the dangerous cause of the rampant discrimination in society. i am saddened that a report that was supposed to promote equality between men and women has turned into a report promoting abortion. it's a shot in the heart of democracy, but it's also a shot in the equality we all swear to and are not prepared to provide for everyone.
written. ‒ i believe that economic equality is a basic prerequisite for gender equality. by suspending the gender equality proposals, the council and the commission are sending a message to half the eu population that their fundamental human right to equality can wait. that's like saying women want to be unemployed, work all january and february for free compared to their male colleagues, and then be left without a pension in old age! with as many as 20 percent more women getting higher education, pretending that the present is satisfactory is absolutely insane. at this rate, for example, equal pay for equal work will not be achieved until 2084. that's why i'm proud that female entrepreneurship is growing in croatia. i'm also proud to introduce gender quotas in the sabor elections. active and binding action is the key to good change! let's not repeat last year's disgrace. let us show those who want to return europe to the middle ages by trying to crash computer systems and by preventing meps from working that they will not succeed. tomorrow, support the fundamental rights of women, show that we are here for them!
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the european parliament's motion for a resolution on progress on equality between women and men in the european union in 2013, because it states that equality is one of the key european fundamental rights. furthermore, equality between women and men is one of the key objectives of the europe 2020 strategy, which should, through innovative policies, achieve genuine gender equality. on the other hand, i condemn all forms of violence and abuse against women and the horizontal gender division which unfortunately still exists in the labour market. i believe that coordinated action by european and national, regional and local authorities is needed to further promote and strengthen equality between women and men in all segments, whether in the private sector, business, politics or otherwise. in this context, financial independence and education of both sexes, and female entrepreneurship, which can certainly contribute to the growth and competitiveness of the union, are important. i believe that the european union can become a true example on a world scale in respecting human diversity, one of the most important of which is sexual diversity.
written. ‒ equality between women and men is one of the fundamental rights of the charter of fundamental rights of the european union and various laws have been enacted to ensure equality. it is regrettable that almost 50 years after the signing of the charter, there are still large disparities between women and men in some areas, and i call on the european institutions and all member states to do more to tackle these problems. however, i do not support the motion of the tarabelle mp because they are unacceptable provisions that regulate the sexual and reproductive rights of women. in addition to the fact that the provisions threaten the fundamental human right to life, such an attempt to regulate reproductive rights and the right to life is contrary to the principle of subsidiarity and the sovereignty of the member states of the union, since under article 168 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union, these matters are the responsibility of the member states. the draft resolution, inter alia, calls on the council and the commission to address the effectiveness of social policies, education, employment and wage policies, the fight against domestic violence and gender discrimination and our task is to ensure that the community is aware of gender equality.
written. ‒ almost half of women in occupations are in 10 of the 130 occupations listed in the international labour organisation's international classification of occupations, and only 16% of women workers are in positions in occupational sectors where the proportion of men and women is equal. only 31% of entrepreneurs in the eu are women. the employment rate for women is 63%. the difference in pay is 16.4%. women and girls account for the vast majority (80%) of reported victims of trafficking in human beings in the eu. the council of europe convention on the prevention and punishment of violence against women and domestic violence (istanbul convention) has not yet been signed by 6 member states and ratified by only 8 countries. the achievement of the objectives of the strategy for equality between women and men 2010-2015 will soon prove to be unsuccessful and the progress in 2013 will be inadequate, especially in relation to economic independence, inter alia, due to the withdrawal of the proposal for a directive on maternity leave. the european union needs to show greater responsibility towards the half of its population that is not equal in many parameters and develop a general plan for investment in social infrastructure, as it has been estimated that, for example, by introducing a gender-sensitive investment plan, european gross domestic product (gdp) would gradually increase by 2,4% more by 2018 than it would have without such a plan.
written. ‒ societies in the eu member states must make every effort to achieve full equality for women in society and public life. there can be no argument about that. gender equality is certainly affected by the problems that occur in everyday life, such as the wage gap, violence against women, the lack of women in entrepreneurship, the problem of countering gender stereotypes and many others. these issues need to be addressed in an engaged way, and women's rights and their moral and professional integrity strengthened. no one should deprive women of the freedoms to which they are entitled by natural law and by the achievements of civilization, but certain paragraphs have been inserted in this report which raise ideological and philosophical objections. the right to abortion, the right to contraception and the right to independent reproductive activity of women are in fact ethical issues and should be discussed within the framework provided for this. the report is not the right way to regulate this, because it would violate the principle of subsidiarity. accordingly, those issues should be left to the national legislatures to decide.
written. ‒ given the importance and gravity of the issue of gender inequality and the need to reduce it, i supported the report on equality between women and men within the european union in 2013. i would like to refer in this way to the fact that among the poor and the socially excluded, the largest number are women. also, despite the fact that women represent 60 percent of college graduates, they are paid 16 percent less per hour than men. add to this the difference in the employment rate of women, which is 63 percent, versus the same for men, which is up to 75 percent, and we should condemn and change the stereotypical division of male-female tasks in our society. croatia is also following the same european trend. interestingly, in croatian social and natural sciences, there are 30 percent more female than male scientific novices, but later in science there are more men for the aforementioned reason of women's commitment to the care of the family. i would certainly also like to take this opportunity to commend the progress made in the legislative process to tackle this problem and to welcome the commission's proposal for a directive to ensure that up to 40% of non-executive directors on company boards are of the underrepresented sex by 2020.
written. ‒ while i support the report's wording on gender equality, i voted against this resolution because, contrary to the principle of subsidiarity, it promotes abortion within the european union. this breach of the principle of subsidiarity has provoked a reaction from more than 168,000 eu citizens who have petitioned the members of the european parliament via the internet to reject the disputed article 45. i certainly want to emphasize that i welcome gender equality in all its aspects, but without infringing the right to life, which begins at conception.
written. i welcome the report by mr tarabella on gender equality, which makes significant progress on equality, especially when it comes to the challenges we are constantly facing, such as low participation of women in the economy and ongoing violence against women. the report contains excellent proposals, it sends a message about equal opportunities for women and men in the field of employment, but also in other segments of life. however, given the violation of the principle of subsidiarity and the fact that 153 000 citizens have reacted with a petition in the last few days, demanding that the right to abortion be removed from the report and that human life be protected as a fundamental human right, i did not vote in favour of this report. i personally find it unacceptable that sexual and reproductive rights are regulated by this report and that this is a serious violation of the right of member states to decide on these issues themselves.
(inaudible) ... as one of the most important generators of economic growth in the european union. however, it is far from regulated. as many as 20% of consumers complain that they cannot shop online in another eu member state. cross-border online trade accounts for only 14% of total online trade. i want to buy shoes from estonia, and the server says, "no, that's not for you, that's for germans, estonians, french". i buy a hat from france, short-distance delivery from croatia is several times more expensive than long-distance delivery within hungary. i buy a digital subscription, i go to another state, and i get blocked from what i paid for fairly. these are the daily complaints of our citizens. on the other hand, our traders are burdened with requirements that traders outside the european union do not have to meet, and this creates unfair competition. we must be aware that we still have a long way to go before we reach the single market. discrimination against consumers based on their place of residence is among the first problems we need to address.
madam president, free competition is one of the main drivers of growth, development and innovation in the european union. however, the different laws and practices of the member states lead to fragmentation of the single market, often leading to distortions of competition and the emergence of monopolies. monopolies cause losses of between 180 and 320 billion euros a year, or 3% of the european union's gdp. we must ask ourselves whether competition policy is strong enough to help small and medium-sized enterprises and enable them to compete fairly. some of the differences in the prices of products and services stem from the different approaches of member states to the granting of subsidies and tax benefits. the way in which state aid is granted needs to be changed and modernised so that it does not become an obstacle to fair competition but an incentive.
madam president, i supported this report by mr messerschmidt because i share his view that a stronger promotion of competition is a necessary precondition for growth, employment, investment and the global competitiveness of the european economy. in this connection, i would like to point out how harmful i consider it to be that some member states' markets are only liberalised on paper and that a dominant position is occupied by public undertakings - former monopolists - which, by means of price dumping, destroy or drive out private competition. such a modus operandi leads to a crazy situation where the taxpayer ostensibly enjoys a lower service price, but then through high taxation has to recover the losses of public companies caused by such a pricing policy. if we are to truly benefit from the single market, we must ensure a level playing field as soon as possible.
‒ as many as 25% of consumers complain that they cannot shop online in another eu member state. cross-border online shopping accounts for only 14% of all online shopping. shoppers complain of discrimination based on place of residence when shopping online. i want to buy shoes from estonia, and the server basically says, "no, that's not for you, that's for germans, estonians and french". i buy a hat from hungary and short-distance delivery to croatia is several times more expensive than long-distance delivery within hungary. i buy a subscription to a tv channel, i go to another country, and i lose access to content that i've paid for fairly. these are the daily complaints of eu citizens. as many as 25% of consumers complain that they cannot shop online in another eu member state. cross-border online shopping accounts for only 14% of all online shopping. we must be aware that we still have a long way to go before we reach the single market, and not promise nice figures without a quality basis. discrimination against consumers based on their place of residence is among the first problems we need to address. the common market should not have a specific set of rules depending on who is charged.
written. ‒ i supported the competition policy report because of the importance of european competition policy. the failure to comply with european competition criteria results in the loss of significant resources. some estimates say that cartels, for example, are responsible for losses of up to 3% of the european union's gdp. the commission notes that the aid granted to the beneficiary is limited to the minimum necessary to ensure the continuation of the activity of the beneficiary. there are many issues to consider, especially as highlighted by last year's survey of journalists who uncovered problematic tax arrangements in some countries used by some companies (luxleaks).
written. ‒ interest rates of 4% for investments in croatian facilities seem small to peasants compared to interest rates on other products offered by bankers (from 6% for equipment purchases to up to 12% for re-material), while for the same banking product in western europe, interest rates for investments in production are around 1 - 2%, noting that the owners of banks operating in croatia are mostly in western member states. the situation is similar with network and wireless operators. the commission notes that the commission has not provided any evidence that the price of the services provided by the operators in question is lower than the price charged by the operators in the other member states. fuel price changes are announced for several days in the central news bulletin of national television so that the oil companies do not even have to meet in secret and negotiate. croatia is a small country in terms of population (consumers), so such price negotiations on the border of cartel association are fruitful. and these are just some of the negative effects. that is why i support this report, which calls on the commission to ensure, through active surveillance and the measures proposed, that competition is respected and protected throughout the european union, for the benefit of all its citizens, workers, farmers and consumers.
written. ‒ some sectors in the single market are still divided by national borders and artificial barriers, while practices such as social dumping or the misuse of structural funds are a cause for concern. competition policy is in itself an instrument for safeguarding european democracy by preventing excessive concentration of economic and financial power in the interests of a small number of individuals. tax evasion, tax fraud and tax havens are estimated to cost eu taxpayers €1 trillion in lost profits annually. the successful development of small and medium-sized enterprises (representing 98% of enterprises in the eu) under conditions of free competition is one of the basic conditions for job creation, sustainable growth, innovation and investment in the european union. a competition policy based on a level playing field for all in all sectors is the cornerstone of europe's social market economy and the fundamental instrument guaranteeing the proper functioning of the internal market, the drive for economic growth and job creation and global competitiveness. the economic and financial crisis should therefore not be an excuse for relaxing the application of competition rules.
written. ‒ i believe that in the area of services of general economic interest, the commission will have a greater responsibility to ensure that the fees granted comply with eu state aid rules. the commission should pay particular attention to the banking sector as state aid has not increased confidence in the banking system, indicating the need to return to the traditional application of state aid controls. the commission's active involvement in the implementation of the state aid control rules, with the continuous reporting to the ep on progress, will make the system more transparent and independent, underlining the importance of fairer tax competition as a necessary factor for achieving the integrity of the internal market. the commission's constant participation in the meetings of parliament's relevant committees and working groups will also contribute to the transparency of the system. encouraging a culture of innovative competition helps to generate employment, economic growth, investment and to promote future-oriented sectors such as the digital economy and the energy sector. this ultimately leads to a faster exit from the financial crisis. market competition and increased competitiveness will affect all eu member states, including croatia, and will force single market participants to specialise more, to be as competitive as possible and to eliminate the possibility of monopoly, which ultimately benefits consumers the most. in supporting the report by mr morton messerschmitt, i welcome the commission's and parliament's continued efforts to improve the functioning of competition policy.
written. ‒ i support competition policy because i believe it is an effective instrument for protecting european democracy by preventing excessive concentration of economic and financial power in favour of a small number of individual actors. i would like to pay particular attention to the energy market in the european union. the three largest entities currently still have a share of around 75% of the electricity market and more than 60% of the gas market. furthermore, affordability, sustainability and safety should be key elements in addressing the current fragmentation of the market and increasing its competitiveness. at present, the european single market is less successful than the us in terms of energy costs, with a price dispersion of 31% compared to 22% in the us. in this respect, croatia as a new member of the union with its natural wealth of renewable energy resources can significantly contribute to improving the overall energy picture of the european union. the commission considers that the aid is compatible with the internal market within the meaning of article 107 (3) (c) of the treaty.
written. ‒ this report highlights the importance of affordability, sustainability and security of energy supply for the european economy and its competitiveness. the commission notes that the commission has not provided any evidence that the measure is compatible with the internal market. the commission should be able to assess the impact of the measures on the environment and the environment protection of natural resources, including the impact of the measures on the environment and the environment protection of natural resources, and to assess the impact of the measures on the environment and the environment protection of natural resources. on the basis of the above, i support the annual report.
written. i support this report as it calls for the fourth consecutive time for the urgent abolition of the crisis state aid scheme for the banking sector and points out that state aid to the banking system has not improved the reputation or restored confidence, reiterates its concern that the application of fines as the only type of penalty may not be effective enough, reiterates its call on the commission to consider the possibility of a general revision of the 2006 guidelines on the determination of fines and asks for the inclusion of these guidelines in regulation 1/2013. the report also identifies social dumping and the misuse of structural funds as concerns and a significant part of the report is devoted to fiscal state aid.
written. ‒ the main message of this report is that the limits of the effectiveness of purely monetary measures in overcoming the crisis have been reached. the european central bank has pursued a highly expansionary policy over the past period, but a combination of fiscal consolidation, structural reforms and public and private investment is needed to emerge from the crisis. i welcome the ecb's swift reaction in very complex circumstances and the fact that monetary policy is aimed at reducing the level of stress in the euro area financial markets and restoring investor confidence in the single currency. the good news is that there has been a positive overall decline in long-term domestic bond yields, particularly in the most indebted eurozone countries, to a level not seen since the start of the crisis. however, low yields have not led to job creation and growth and pose a threat to financial stability.
written. ‒ i supported the european central bank's annual report 2013 taking into account the contribution to resolving the economic crisis, although i believe that the measures taken have primarily contributed to reflecting economic stability and there is still a lack of new jobs, economic activity is slowing down, there is a lack of investment from both private and public. the ecb has achieved price stability, but low inflation is not allowing growth. monetary policy measures need to create the conditions for attractiveness of investment in the euro area. i support the ecb's role in preserving financial stability and the transparency achieved in the bank's decision-making. despite president draghi's view that the existing rules of the stability and growth pact are a sufficiently flexible framework for the application of the recovery stimulus, i consider that, in view of the economic situation to date, changes should be made in this respect.
written. ‒ the euro declined by 0,4% in 2013. according to the autumn forecast, unemployment in the euro area increased from 11,3% at the end of 2012 to 11,9% at the end of 2013 and remained at a high level in 2014. there are considerable differences in unemployment rates between member states, ranging from 5% to 26%. youth unemployment rates in some member states are as high as 50%. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's macro-financial assistance in the context of the union's macro-financial assistance to the countries of central and eastern europe, in particular the countries of the former soviet union, the former soviet union and the former soviet union. the measures recently announced by the ecb to stimulate bank lending do not address these long-standing problems and the ecb should therefore investigate the underlying factors that make it difficult for smes to access loans. the existing flexibility of the rules of the stability and growth pact can be used to address the weak recovery more effectively and to make room for the cost of the necessary structural reforms. there is scope for growth-friendly fiscal policies and for reducing the tax burden in a way that does not affect the budget. complementary action at eu level would also be needed to ensure not only an appropriate common position but also a programme for large public investments.
written. ‒ i support the report by mr bidegain, which is of a very high quality and comprehensive. it is positive that the ecb has responded quickly in very complex circumstances through a monetary policy aimed at reducing tensions in the euro area financial markets and restoring investor confidence in the single currency. it should be noted that there are considerable differences in unemployment rates between member states, ranging from 5% to 26%, while youth unemployment rates in some countries reach 50%, as unfortunately recently in croatia. in order to combat rising unemployment rates, more attention should be paid to aggregate demand policy. while on the demand side monetary policy can and should play a central role, aggregate demand cannot be stimulated by monetary policy alone, but must be accompanied by appropriate national fiscal and structural reforms and policies. i believe it is important to create the conditions for a recovery in investment, both public and private, and i believe that in this context the €300 billion package proposed by commission president juncker could complement in some way the ecb's efforts to boost jobs and growth in europe. the ssm, which became operational at the end of 2014, is seen as a major contribution to strengthening confidence in the euro area banking sector and thus to financial stability.
written. ‒ i supported the report on the european central bank's (ecb) annual report for 2013, which was not a good year for the european economy. compared to 2012, unemployment within the european union increased by 0,7%. the forecasts for 2013 expected a decrease in unemployment of 0,2% and they were met. nevertheless, significant differences in unemployment rates have been recorded between member states. one of the member states with a high unemployment rate is croatia, which at the time of joining the european union in 2013 was 17.3%. the negative picture is further underlined by the very small drop in youth unemployment. i am extremely concerned by the result of only a 5 percent drop in youth unemployment since 2008. the lack of credit for smes in some member states is also a major problem. the european central bank (ecb) has also been asked to provide a report on the implementation of the new lending facility. this situation does not come close to achieving the employment and social objectives set out in the europe 2020 strategy and i call on the ecb to take measures that will contribute to achieving those objectives.
written. ‒ in the 2013 annual report of the european central bank, i welcome the ecb's swift reaction in very complex circumstances and the fact that monetary policy is aimed at reducing volatility in financial markets in the euro area and restoring investor confidence in the currency. i welcome the positive step taken by the ecb in deciding to publish the minutes of its meetings, which will apply from january 2015, and i support the fact that the governing council of the ecb has responded to this request made in its recent reports to parliament. i also support the ecb's call on member states to persevere in labour market reforms to improve competitiveness, increase potential growth, create employment opportunities, increase inclusiveness and optimise the conditions for job creation in enterprises. i call on the ecb to ensure that wage recommendations do not increase poverty or wage inequality within member states, or harm low-income groups. for these reasons, i support the annual report of the european central bank.
written. i support this report as it represents the overall opinion of the european parliament and of the committee on employment and social affairs on the activities of the european central bank in 2013. according to the commission services' forecast, gdp in the euro area decreased significantly by 0,4% in 2013 and unemployment increased by 6% compared to the previous year. there is a risk that trends related to employment and poverty reduction will not achieve the national targets under the europe 2020 strategy. i welcome the willingness of the central bank to take whatever action is necessary to save the euro, even though economic activity is still slowing, with negative gdp growth in the euro area in 2013 due to the balance sheet adjustment process, and a high unemployment rate. the mandate of the central bank is to preserve price stability and promote sustainable economic and social progress and employment. i therefore believe it is very important to create the conditions for a recovery of investment in the euro area and to focus on creating high-quality jobs, as rising youth unemployment is a major risk to the eu's economic stability.
madam president, we need to put our hands on our hearts and tell ourselves that objectively we have a budget problem. we have unpaid bills, billions of dollars, and we have big ambitions. however, i am convinced that without the great ambitions of this commission, including the juncker plan, but also including all that we have discussed today, there will be no recovery of our economy. that is why i strongly support all the intentions and ambitions that are being made, because i am sure that only if we succeed in moving the economy, if we really succeed in pulling the european union out of the crisis, and there are good signs, and optimism we need and we need such ambitions, then all that we are doing here and our entire mandate will really make sense.
mr. president, the fight against fraud is the foundation of a well-ordered society and a very important instrument of fiscal consolidation in the post-recession era. but we must be realistic and accept the fact that the european political elite has, by its decisions, contributed to the current alarming situation. unfortunately, many european governments have failed to strike a balance between the need to generate stable budget revenues and to reduce the financial burden on citizens and businesses who find themselves in an unenviable situation. such non-stimulatory tax policies have practically encouraged a shift to a grey economy, which has further damaged already fragile national budgets. the vast budget money that politicians redistribute often according to vague criteria will always be a decoy for fraudsters. the solution is not necessarily better control, but above all tax reduction, decentralisation and respect for the principle of subsidiarity.
madam president, i welcome the report by mr pirinsky and i would like to stress that fraud is not limited to the member states of eastern and central europe, but is present at the level of the european union as a whole. a large number of misuses in the use of public money are of a technical nature due to the constant neglect of the importance of administrative capacity and education. it's important to note that the number of abuses has increased, but their absolute value has decreased. the focus should be on the anti-fraud coordination offices (afcos). we should demand harmonisation and standardisation of these services across the union. i believe it is important to preserve the integrity of cohesion policy in order to preserve its credibility and success.
the question he raised by raising his blue card. dear mrs. d'amato, i've listened to you carefully and working together on the regi board i have one question for you. we have seriously discussed the need to simplify procedures and thus make it clear that many of the frauds that are registered as frauds are in fact mere misunderstandings. do you agree that simplifying the procedure would help a lot?
madam president, without any wish to diminish the importance of this debate and the fact that we are talking about eur 2 billion of various frauds and possible criminal offences, i would nevertheless like to point out that i am in favour of all criminal offences being punished very severely and in this context i want to support the creation of the european public prosecutor's office, because international crime knows no borders. what i want to emphasize, having experience as a man who has worked for many years in local and regional self-government, is the need for simplification of procedures. we have the absurdity of getting into a situation where something is declared a fraud, and it's that some people bought a metal door as opposed to a wooden door, and the contract said it was a wooden door and it said it was a mistake, which was recorded as a mistake, and they got a better and cheaper door. that's just one small example.
president-in-office of the council.– madam president, to date the ebola virus disease has taken a heavy toll on life: almost 24 000 people have been infected and more than 9 800 have died. it is a global problem. no country in the world can feel completely safe as the ebola virus disease does not respect national borders, and is a challenge that demands our highest attention. the presidency welcomes the high-level conference on ebola from emergency to recovery organised by, and under the patronage of, the european union, in close cooperation with the united nations and the governments of the three most affected countries – liberia, sierra leone and guinea. the presidency would like to convey its gratitude to high representative federica mogherini and to the eu ebola coordinator, commissioner stylianides, and also to commissioner mimica and commissioner andriukaitis for an outstanding organisation of this event. the large number of high-level speakers and participants representing the affected region, the eu and its member states, international organisations, un agencies and ngos, proved that the international community is greatly concerned by, and actively engaged against, the ebola virus disease. we are cooperating in a joint effort to combat this dreadful epidemic. commissioner stylianides will, i believe, go into much greater detail in the work and the outcomes of the conference, but let me, for my part, share some thoughts from the council’s point of view. this conference confirms that despite the stabilisation of the outbreak, the international community must ‘keep up the momentum’ and continue to provide the international aid, which is essential. we cannot afford to become complacent. we have to maintain our attention on the response to the epidemic and prevent any increase in infections. our efforts need to focus on the target of bringing the number of infections to zero because even a single case not identified quickly enough can pose a significant threat. the target of bringing the number of infections to zero, and maintaining that level, is ambitious, yet, by working together, we can achieve it. the conference took place at a crucial moment as we are moving from the emergency response to the recovery phase. it marked a step forward, for participants to look ahead, discuss the lessons learned and start focusing on recovery and reconstruction of public services, enhancement of preparedness, alert and response systems, health, education, risk communication, social protection and reviving the economies of the affected countries and of other countries with a potential risk of outbreak of the disease. all the participants shared the opinion that the crisis can only be solved with a common and comprehensive approach addressing critical gaps in essential services, allowing the affected countries and countries which are at potential risk to build long—term resilience and protect themselves from future shocks. the ebola virus disease is primarily a regional problem. therefore, the presidency welcomes the commitment of the presidents of the three affected countries – guinea, liberia and sierra leone – to establish coordinated regional recovery plans together with roadmaps and coordinating structures. this conference has shown once again the commitment of the eu and its member states in tackling the epidemic and assisting the countries in need. the eu reacted quickly. several mechanisms were rapidly activated such as the eu civil protection mechanism and the health security committee. starting from early september, the council and the european council provided political guidance for the eu response and worked on the basis of the ambitious objective of mobilising financial aid amounting to eur 1 billion. we have surpassed that objective, and have provided also in—kind assistance and expertise, thus giving the eu one of the leading roles in the global ebola response. last october, the european council nominated commissioner stylianides as the eu ebola coordinator. today and tomorrow, we must work along the lines identified by the conference, notably, to ensure that funds already pledged are made available and maintain international support until there are no more ebola cases. we must also make the response more mobile and flexible; promote regional cooperation; assist countries in west africa on prevention, containment and preparedness and help them build resilient health systems; and we must also improve governance and accountability of local and national systems. international engagement needs to be maintained, and i note that further high—level meetings will be held in washington next month. the council also welcomes the valuable support of the european parliament in addressing the ebola crisis. discussions in different committees, debate in the plenary and the resolution adopted in september by the european parliament gave an important signal to the international community on the eu’s dedication to overcome the epidemic. the council is looking forward to the report by charles goerens that will serve as an important element in further discussions on the lessons learned and on the strengthening of health systems in developing countries to prevent future crises. allow me to conclude by expressing our deepest tribute and appreciation to the constant dedication of health workers and international governmental and non-governmental organisations to tackle the ebola epidemics, their exceptional courage, self-sacrifice and professionalism. i would like to thank you very much right now for having this debate tonight and i also look forward to a fruitful discussion.
member of the commission.– mr president, it is very important that we are having this discussion today, only one week after the high—level conference on ebola, as has already been said by the presidency. it proves once again the interest of parliament in our fight against the virus, against its tangible consequences on the ground. allow me to share with you a brief assessment of the conference we organised last week in brussels. first, the conference succeeded in bringing together all the key actors in the fight against ebola. in a joint effort between the european union and the three affected countries, their presidents played a central role in the proceedings, but also involving the united nations and the west african region, as well as the african union. why do i insist on this joint effort? because everything we do in the fight against ebola needs to be done with, and for, the affected countries, especially their people. second, the conference underlined the fact that our immediate priority still has to be to ‘get to zero cases’ in all three countries and sustain this for 42 days. you know very well the medical conditions and that we need to further adjust our response in the field. of course, by shifting from big treatment centres to community—level response, out in the provinces, we have to work even more with communities. this was timely because, while liberia may now be close to a sustainable ‘zero’, case numbers have unfortunately again been going up in sierra leone and guinea. third, the conference reflected the joined—up way in which we as the european union have approached ebola – as a collective effort between federica mogherini, neven mimica, vytenis andriukaitis, carlos moedas and myself as ebola coordinator, with the commission and the eeas working together to get things done, as we have been doing ever since the ebola outbreak started. the conference also heard how an unprecedented research effort is helping in the fight to get to zero, and how the european union, through fast—tracking very substantial amounts of research funding, is making a big contribution to meeting the research priorities identified by the who. the conference also agreed that a coordinated research effort both in the inter—epidemic periods and in emergency situations is a crucial element of preparedness. the commission is actively working to achieve this. fourth, the conference agreed a framework for recovery of the three countries. it heard how massively ebola has hit their economies, which were on a path of strong growth before ebola. the co—chairs’ conclusions from the conference set out the key sectors on which the recovery effort needs to focus: healthcare, certainly, to provide people with basic care, and to make sure the three countries are better prepared to deal with future epidemics; but also water and sanitation, nutrition, and social safety nets, with, of course, a particular focus on the most vulnerable. in the very short term, there is a need to vaccinate people, and provide primary care, clean water, and sanitation. if we do not invest in these things, it will be just a matter of time before another epidemic erupts. so we now have a common roadmap with strong support from the three presidents. the next steps will be a discussion on the fringes of the world bank spring meetings, in april, and then a un—led pledging conference at the end of may. fifth, and very important, the conference provided a big boost for regional cooperation. this became one of my top objectives upon my arrival from the ebola—affected countries last november. over the last few months, the three countries have taken concrete steps in that direction. the presence of the three leaders in brussels last week and their mutual commitment are very encouraging, and all actors agree that this is crucial for preventing and containing future epidemics. as the european union, we are already providing hands—on support for cross—border preparedness in the region. we will look at how to strengthen this further. in short, the conference more than lived up to expectations; but it is part of a process – not the end point, but the beginning. finally, a word of thanks to the european parliament delegation to the conference: linda mcavan, louis michel, charles goerens and michelle rivasi. the european parliament’s contribution to the discussion was greatly appreciated.
the european union has taken an important step towards coordinating the international community's response to the ebola pandemic. it was a unique opportunity to reflect on the current situation and to reflect on the lessons learned. while we are currently seeing some positive trends in the fight against the epidemic, we must continue to make maximum efforts, not only to completely defeat this disease but also to help the long-term development of the affected countries. because beyond the immediate effects of this crisis, such as the loss of countless lives, ebola has left deep socioeconomic consequences in the hardest-hit countries of guinea, liberia, and sierra leone. the eu has also provided a number of instruments to support the implementation of the unfccc, including the unfccc sustainable development goals, the unfccc sustainable development goals, the unfccc sustainable development goals, the unfccc sustainable development goals, the unfccc sustainable development goals, the unfccc sustainable development goals, and the unfccc sustainable development goals. we need to use development aid to invest in the long-term development of sustainable health and education systems. however, we must not lose sight of the big picture. we need to increase investment and efforts in building governance and institutional structures in affected countries. at a conference last week, representatives from guinea, liberia and sierra leone indicated that they intend to build a regional recovery plan. the eu should certainly encourage regional cooperation, and it is good practice to encourage the recipient countries to participate in the creation and implementation of their own development programmes. finally, we must insist on promoting good governance, institutional capacity building and the rule of law in order to promote sustainable development.
the question he raised by raising his blue card. mr. faria, i've been listening to you very carefully and i can see you're talking in a way that the fight isn't over. we haven't got it yet. i understand that the vaccine is winning the fight, but my question is, do you agree with me that this conference needs to talk a lot about investing in prevention, education and education because that's the best way to prevent any epidemic right at the beginning?
president-in-office of the council. – mr president, today we are having important debates on the stabilisation and association process concerning four western balkan countries. before we start the discussion on the individual assessment of the respective countries, i would like to underline that the council continues to attach great importance to the credibility of the stabilisation and association process, which remains crucial for maintaining the momentum of democratic reforms. the values upon which the european union is founded – freedom, democracy, the rule of law and respect for human rights – are linked to the economic and social progress the european union has achieved since its creation. in this respect we recognise that the preparation of economic reform programmes will support the efforts of candidate and aspirant states of the western balkans towards meeting the copenhagen economic criteria. i would also like to underline that the ultimate wish to move forward on crucial reform issues cannot come from the european union, but from the governments of the western balkan countries themselves. cooperation is the common link that binds the eu and what strengthens our ability to deliver security and prosperity. it provides strength in unity and builds consensus and mutual trust, while taking into account the needs, challenges and assets of each country. this is why the council underlines the importance of regional economic cooperation, sharing the best practice on economic governance and connectivity and inclusiveness within the region and with the eu. let me now turn to montenegro. it is clear that the council broadly shares many of the views expressed in your draft resolution. i would particularly like to underline some points which we consider very important. in its conclusions in december last year, the council welcomed the progress montenegro had made in the past year, including the completion of the extensive screening phase. in line with the new approach, the focus has been on the chapters dedicated to the fundamental rights and rule of law: chapter 23, judiciary and fundamental rights and chapter 24, justice, freedom and security, as they are rightly at the heart of the enlargement process. montenegro has demonstrated strong commitment to the reform process in line with european standards, which is an essential element of the accession negotiation process. we welcome the recent adoption of certain measures, in particular in the area of the fight against corruption. however, much along the same lines as the parliament, the council also stressed that a number of shortcomings identified by the commission need to be addressed in a decisive and effective way. montenegro needs to further intensify its efforts with regard to legislative reforms and their effective implementation, in particular in relation to chapters 23 and 24. in this light, let me take note of the recent adoption by the government of montenegro of the revised action plan for both chapters. the interim benchmark for the rule of law chapters should continue to provide clear guidance for future reforms. particular importance should be given to making up for delays and to further developing a solid track record in the area of the rule of law, including with respect to the fight against corruption, notably at high level. further efforts are also needed to implement constitutional amendments, strengthen political inclusiveness, and guarantee citizens’ trust in public institutions. furthermore, montenegro needs to implement the public administration reform strategy and strengthen administrative capacity, tackle politicisation, increase transparency, and improve the business environment. a well-functioning public administration is not only necessary for democratic governance, but it also directly impacts on a government’s ability to provide public services and to foster competitiveness and growth. in this regard the council welcomes the approach of the commission to focus on strengthening economic governance and competitiveness. it should prove to be a valuable support to the efforts towards meeting the copenhagen criteria. as you have highlighted in your draft resolution, further efforts are also needed to guarantee freedom of expression and of the media, including properly investigating and prosecuting threats and violence against journalists. montenegro will require strong political commitment in order to deliver further tangible and lasting results. the council will continue to closely monitor the progress in the chapters on fundamental rights and justice and security which will determine the overall pace of negotiations. the council notes that montenegro has continued to implement its obligations under the stabilisation and association agreement, and to play an active role in the region. the council commends montenegro for its strong commitment to regional cooperation and its constructive role in maintaining regional stability. in this regard, the council welcomes the active participation of montenegro in numerous regional initiatives in south—eastern europe and the good neighbourly and bilateral relations it entertains with other enlargement countries and eu member states. i would also like to stress that the council welcomes montenegro’s full alignment with the union’s common foreign and security policy. now, let me say a few words about the state of play in the accession negotiations. four new negotiation chapters were successfully opened during the latest accession conference, held on 16 december 2014. overall, out of a total of 35 chapters, 16 have now been opened for negotiations, of which two chapters have already been provisionally closed. we plan for the next accession conferences at deputy and ministerial level, in march and june respectively, where we expect to be able to open further chapters, depending on montenegro’s continuous progress in meeting the requirements for accession. finally, let me acknowledge and welcome, on behalf of the presidency and the council, the parliament’s work, and in particular the continuous engagement of your rapporteur, mr charles tannock, regarding the negotiation process with montenegro. i am looking forward to our discussion. thank you for your attention.
member of the commission.– mr president, thank you for your invitation to discuss parliament’s resolution on montenegro. i would also like to take this opportunity to thank the rapporteur for montenegro, charles tannock, for his draft resolution. it is a text that well reflects the assessment in the commission’s 2014 progress report on that country. let me start with a general remark: for the commission, the enlargement process is not in doubt. we will work closely with the countries of the region to prepare them for their accession to the european union. montenegro was one of the first countries i visited after the start of my mandate and this was the message i delivered to the country’s political leadership. two and a half years after the opening of accession negotiations, montenegro has made progress and has now opened the 16 negotiating chapters. it is also the first country to apply the new approach to the rule of law. serious shortcomings identified in the progress report have already been addressed by montenegro through intense work in the weeks following its publication and by the adoption of important legislation on the prevention of corruption. however, adopting legislation is not the cure-all. we have made it clear to montenegro that the focus now has to be on implementing this legislation. this was also a message during the recent stock-taking on the rule of law which took place in podgorica. it is time to shift the focus from processes and procedures to ensuring results on the ground. such changes should also be felt by individuals in their daily lives. to give you an example, let me mention the protection of persons with disabilities. despite amending legislation, and making a budget available, access to public buildings for persons with disabilities is still not ensured in an appropriate manner. legal identity, a functioning independent judicial system and fundamental rights like property rights are necessary – and not only for meeting the rule of law criteria, they are pre-conditions for attracting investment, improving competitiveness and stimulating growth and jobs. we are also strengthening our economic dialogue with montenegro. in january the country submitted its economic reform program. this will be the basis of guidance to be adopted by the council later in the year. turning now to montenegro’s foreign policy, i would like to use this opportunity to commend montenegro’s alignment with the european union on restrictive measures in the context of russia’s illegal annexation of crimea and events in eastern ukraine. finally, i want to underline that, through the accession negotiations, and through ipa assistance, the commission is committed to helping montenegro reach new standards and meet the various criteria that will make the country ready politically, as well as economically, to join the union. overall progress in the accession negotiations will be determined by progress on the rule of law, but we should not underestimate the importance of economic reforms as well. the commission will continue to monitor progress in this area closely and report to parliament and the eu member states. we count on your support in helping montenegro to continue on the reform path and deliver results for the benefit of its citizens.
on behalf of the alde club. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to start by congratulating and thanking mr tannock on his excellent report and the good cooperation he has shown in producing it. the alde group strongly supports the accession of montenegro, as well as the other western balkan countries, to the european union. this report points to difficulties and sets targets, but at the same time commends and encourages montenegro to continue its efforts to build an independent judiciary, fight corruption, strengthen media freedom and strengthen the role of civil society. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's macro-financial assistance to the countries of the western balkans, in particular through the implementation of the european neighbourhood policy.
the question he raised by raising his blue card. mr. castaldo, i was going to ask mrs. lunacek that question earlier, but you've offered me the whole thing. we are talking here about renewable energy, about the need for green energy, and i agree that the big problem is the over-number of possible dams in the balkans. however, montenegro can produce a lot of green energy that italy needs, because italy does not have good energy sources, and so i ask you, do you agree with me that we need to find a good compromise between the exploitation of green energy in the balkans that can be useful for eu members?
mr president, i would like to thank the rapporteurs, mr tannocku and mr kovačev, for the excellent work they have done, and i am particularly pleased that the amendments of the croatian epp delegation have been fully accepted, either as compromise or as individual amendments. we have also heard the commission's and the council's views and i hope that makes everything clear. however, i would like to make a few comments. as stated in the resolution, we from the croatian delegation will continue to insist on maintaining good neighbourly relations, resolving bilateral issues at an early stage of the negotiations, with special emphasis on open issues with croatia. i would like to stress in particular the call to speed up the resolution of the border issues around the prevalka, but also to do everything to protect the multinational identity of boka kotorska. we are sending a message that more serious efforts are being made to solve cases of war crimes and therefore we expect the competent authorities to conduct effective investigations without delay and to convict those who committed crimes, all in accordance with international standards. although it is impossible to compensate for the pain caused by torture inflicted only two and a half decades ago in the montenegrin camps, it is encouraging that the appeal of the association of serb and montenegrin concentration camp survivors from dubrovnik for adequate and fair compensation for croatian prisoners in montenegro is nevertheless included in the text. therefore, i hereby encourage the montenegrin authorities to take seriously the messages of the montenegrin parliament, while croatia, on the other hand, will continue to support montenegro's european path by sharing our experience with accession negotiations.
mr. president, montenegro is on the right track. we all concluded that, and montenegro can become a great example for other countries in the western balkans, and how many accidents we had in the western balkans just a few decades ago i don't think it's necessary to talk about it here. i would even say that montenegro is trying to act as if it were a member of the european union and i would like to emphasize that the issue that i put forward in the form of an amendment and i am glad that it was accepted, is one of the key issues at the moment, and that is: montenegro is practically the only country with access to the open sea in the northern part of the mediterranean, and not a member of the nato alliance. in that context, as much as this topic may not be up for discussion at this time and here, but it is a big security issue, i call on the commission, all member states and all of us to do something in that direction. and today i learned something new: great france is afraid of montenegrin agriculture. colleague, i think you know very little about montenegro and its agriculture.
madam president, i would like to welcome commissioner hahn. the fact that in three years of negotiations montenegro has 16 chapters open and 2 chapters temporarily closed, indicates an excellent dynamic of reform and change in the country and the whole society. i support the european commission's calls for improving monetary and fiscal policy and for better public finance management, as this is important for quality, smart and strategically oriented growth and development of montenegro. only a sound economic governance system, as called for in chapter 17, and a financial management and control system, as called for in chapter 32, are the basis for successful integration into the european union's single market. in addition, the pre-condition for economic development and growth is an independent judiciary, the rule of law and the fight against corruption, and i support the continuation of reforms and the harmonisation of legislation in these areas. as a neighbouring country, we look forward to montenegro's accession to the european union, stressing the importance of making efforts to prosecute war crimes and resolve bilateral issues as soon as possible in the spirit of good neighbourly relations - here i am thinking in particular of the border with croatia in the part of prevlaka.
madam president, mr hahn, first of all i would like to thank my fellow rapporteur, mr charles tannocki, for a very good report on the progress of montenegro in the process of european integration, especially bearing in mind the fact that montenegro is a country negotiating under a new negotiation methodology that has emerged from the experience of croatia. the fact is that already at the beginning of the negotiations, among these 16 chapters, chapters 23 and 24 were included, so 2 key system chapters that should give us confidence in the legal system and the functioning of montenegro as a country by european standards, is extremely good. in this regard, i agree with the suggestions of the report which talks about strengthening media freedom, democracy in montenegro, quality dialogue between the government and the opposition. i particularly welcome the accession of montenegro to the eu's foreign policy positions as this is in line with the idea of montenegro also becoming a member of nato. i also support the multi-national character of boka kotorska and respect for the rights of minorities, especially croats in montenegro. in any case, montenegro will have our strong support on the way to the european union.
the question he raised by raising his blue card. mr. meszerics, the former yugoslav republic of macedonia or as we who lived in the territory of the former yugoslavia, simply call the republic of macedonia not wanting to hurt anyone in this house, because it is just a part of our common history. i ask you as the former minister for european integration of the republic of croatia, in 2000, macedonia together with croatia started the european path, you said that macedonia needs help. do you think macedonia should have received more help from the european union and do you see our fault in all this?
madam president, as a member of the committee on relations with macedonia, i strongly support those parts of the motion for a resolution which clearly call on the council to set without further delay the date for the opening of negotiations which macedonia deserves in view of the very high degree of preparedness, as this motion for a resolution confirms. the resolution suggests in its individual segments certain weaknesses that have been identified and that the macedonian authorities need to correct. but macedonia is to be commended as being in the top 5 least indebted eu and candidate countries. gdp growth is expected to be 3.8% this year, which is a great figure. the commitment of the macedonian authorities to support the protection of common human values, such as the protection of life and family, could be followed by many members of the european union. macedonia has been waiting for almost 10 years to open negotiations due to a bilateral name dispute with greece, which is discouraging for the macedonian people. i call on the european commission and the council to find a solution urgently so that macedonia can open negotiations officially without hindrance and the bilateral dispute can continue to be resolved in parallel with macedonia's alignment with european legislation.
madam president, among the croatian members of the european people's party, i would first of all like to thank my colleague, mr iva vajla, for the very good report and all the shadow rapporteurs who have contributed to the preparation of this document, as well as the commission for the report on macedonia and another recommendation. we heard in earlier discussions a few years ago, we're trying to get to the stage where we can start negotiations. i say this as a man who has spent many years on the side of croatian government and diplomacy, and we have been watching the integration process in parallel, along with macedonia. i would just like to remind you that back in 2000, during the zagreb summit, that is, the zagreb summit, our friends initiated the stabilisation and association agreement. 2000 , three years before the thessaloniki summit. it's been 15 years. unfortunately, the negotiations have not yet been opened, this is a bad example for the enlargement process, it creates frustration on the domestic political scene and therefore we are not surprised by the problems referred to by several colleagues recently. therefore, it seems to me that we must separate the issue of finding a solution for the name from the process of negotiating macedonia's accession, because i believe that in this way we will contribute to its development and economic stability, but also to strengthening the european project and good neighbourliness. (the president agreed to answer the question by raising the blue card (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure))
answer the question posed by raising the blue card. mr. fountoulis, like all of us here who have mentioned macedonia as a state in a way that does not suit you, it does not mean that we have no deep respect for greece as a country, and as its culture and as civilization. on the contrary. but also take into account that there are certain members of the european union, such as croatia, that have recognized macedonia under its constitutional name, and that is for us the main and only framework of the way of communication. therefore, do not be offended, this is what is worth in croatia and what i as a croatian citizen, and also a representative, will stick to. (the president agreed to answer the question by raising the blue card (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure))
answer the question posed by raising the blue card. mrs sakorafa, i do not think that this is the time for a debate like this, which talks about macedonia's progress towards the european union, to be turned into a whole debate again on behalf of the meps. i think what i said to my colleagues earlier is quite enough. let us try to make an effort that is oriented precisely towards good neighbourliness, regional cooperation, the functioning of the european project. because as it stands today, it will not be of any use to you as a neighboring country, to us as the european union, or to our friends in macedonia.
madam president, i would like to thank my colleague mr. weigl for his well-prepared report. since 2005, macedonia has been making efforts to meet the conditions for the opening of negotiations. those assumptions are not nuclear physics. i know this very well, because i worked with other colleagues on the preparation of the republic of croatia for negotiations and on the negotiations. so the other countries met the criteria, the fact is that macedonia met the criteria. when the progress reports are read, it is clear to all that the legal, political, economic and administrative reforms that have been implemented so far are at a satisfactory level to start negotiations. the comments on individual chapters are even considerably more positive than those of the countries with which negotiations have started. by postponing the negotiations, we are stopping further progress by macedonia and that is why i appeal to the neighbouring countries, especially greece, to help macedonia in the spirit of good neighbourly relations in further democratisation and europeanisation of society.
madam president, 15 years ago i was the minister for european integration of the republic of croatia and at the summit i was in zagreb, when europe celebrated the changes in croatia, macedonia signed the association and stabilisation agreement. i must say that we all looked forward to this and that as minister i did everything to help the then government of macedonia to embark as soon as possible, together with croatia, on the european path. i have the honor today to talk to you about european politics, sometimes agree more or less, and this country is far from the european union. of course, i don't think any of us here are guilty. first of all, it is a problem within those countries themselves and they must solve that problem themselves, but if i, as a man from serbia, speak about serbia in the desire that serbia become a member of the european union as soon as possible, and my colleagues and colleagues from greece will be for this together with me, then i ask my colleagues from greece to help your neighbor together.
the question he raised by raising his blue card. mrs. fajon, from your statement it follows that you are not aware that this law you mention, by which serbia has taken over universal jurisdiction, also applies to your citizens. i'm curious, will you still consider that law to be outside the framework of international and criminal law at that moment if it happens that under that law a slovenian citizen is arrested and tried?
madam president, i welcome the firm decision of the government of the republic of serbia to persevere on its european path, because i believe that this really does contribute to stability in the balkans at last. serbia's role has always been important in the balkans and the latest moves we see, first of all the dialogue between serbia and albania, serbia's attitude towards bosnia and herzegovina and other neighbours, i think are excellent and if serbia persists on this path, we should be ready to accept it as soon as possible in our society. what i want to emphasise is the need for further reforms in serbia, everything that is on the government's agenda and what i would additionally suggest is that serbia's potential be seriously considered, especially in the energy field, and that it be included in the programmes of the new juncker plan, because many of the energy resources that serbia has can be put to good use for the member states as well.
madam president, mr hahn, mr mcallister, i thank you for your well-written report on serbia, which i believe is an incentive for the serbian authorities to continue reforms on the road to the european union. i am pleased that the report also deals in a qualitative way with the protection of minority rights, respect for agreements with neighbouring countries and, of course, the resolution of the issue of missing persons. today in the debate, colleague fajon mentioned the law by which serbia extended its jurisdiction to other states of the former sfry, completely mixing the classic universal jurisdiction with a unique hybrid case of territorially selectively extended jurisdiction which according to my analysis and knowledge is unprecedented in other countries. i therefore call on commissioner hahn and the commission to help solve this problem, which is creating legal uncertainty for eu citizens, and therefore croatian citizens, and potentially slovenian citizens, but also others, in the months ahead and to help serbia to make a complete legal reform of its system on the way to the eu. (the president agreed to answer the question by raising the blue card (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure))
the question he raised by raising his blue card. mr. plenkovic, you mentioned this law that speaks of universal jurisdiction. i would like to ask you and give you another opportunity to explain, given that there is a misunderstanding in parliament and from mrs fajon herself, what the difference is so that our colleagues can understand what we are asking for. there is no question that we want to stop serbia, we want to help serbia, but we also want to clarify this issue.
answer the question posed by raising the blue card. mrs. šuica, i hope that the last two months, during which we have discussed this report, have not contributed to a weaker understanding of the problem, but rather to a better understanding of it, and i think we have achieved that. most of my colleagues who were not familiar with it now know what it's about. the court of justice of the european union has consistently held that the principle of 'universal jurisdiction' is not a principle of law and that it is not necessary to apply it to the conduct of a criminal offence committed in the territory of the former yugoslav republic of macedonia. we're not against avoiding impunity; in fact. but we are against a law creating legal uncertainty for eu citizens in the way that croatian citizen veljko maric was, and that is unacceptable in the future.
madam president, i see that ms lunacek has been partially informed about the issue. i suggest we have a short conversation for longer than the 23 seconds that are left so that i can tell you that just because the law was passed in 2003 does not mean that it was implemented until 2010. by the way, croatia passed a law in 2011 that made all the legal acts based on this law null and void; so her partial information is very partial and partisan and she should please bear that in mind before the vote tomorrow.
madam president, kosovo is facing major reforms. we want to support kosovo on its european path, but we also want to say that reforms are absolutely necessary. i want to emphasize in particular what no one here has mentioned, and that is the need to protect the rights of the serb community in kosovo. i am one of those who advocate for the rights of minorities everywhere, especially serbs in croatia, and that is why i want to speak about the need to protect serbs in kosovo. i want to emphasize that we are talking about the future of the balkans. we talked about it today. in many ways, opposing each other. i would like to see one day the whole of the balkans in the european union, because i believe that is the only real future for this part of europe.
mr president, i want to make a strong statement in support of the commission's ambition to create a single energy union. and this is from all the arguments that we have heard here: from the fragmentation of the market, from the need for competition, from the excessive price that we have within the european union, from the dependence on one supplier and all those other arguments that were very important. but i do have a suggestion for mr timmermans and the commission. i want to warn you in a way that the balkans are full of green renewable energy. the potential of the balkans is such that we can actually produce a lot of green energy relatively cheaply, and primarily from water sources. in this way we can help our candidate countries or potential candidates to grow economically, and on the other hand we have a close source of large green energy capacities. think about that idea.
written. all three themes expected at the next council of europe meeting are of particular relevance to the future of our continent. the first topic, the european energy union, has become a priority topic. we urgently need to create all the conditions for the establishment of a common european energy market. the eu imports 53% of its energy needs, amounting to about €1 billion a day. the price of electricity in europe is 40% higher than in the us and this directly undermines european competitiveness. this is particularly important in light of the intention to sign ttip. i expect the european commission and the european council to make all the documents available urgently so that the necessary decisions for the establishment of the european single market can be taken as soon as possible. the second theme, european development and the related investment drive through the new investment fund for strategic investments, is an absolute priority. without investment and job creation, there is no european future. that's why i strongly support the creation of a new fund with an initial 315 billion euros. the third theme, the external policy of the european union, involves creating the preconditions of the eastern partnership for long-term stability on our current eu borders with a european perspective for the eastern partnership countries. the catastrophic situation in libya and all the consequences of this crisis in the mediterranean must also remain the focus of our foreign policy.
written. i welcome the fact that the upcoming european council will focus on the energy union, alongside other topics of particular importance such as the european semester and relations with russia. i believe that this issue should be placed very high on the list of priorities of the european union, because a coordinated and coherent approach at union level will make it easier and faster to achieve our common, rather ambitious energy goals. during this process, we need to take into account the national circumstances of all member states, as well as their potential to implement the necessary reforms, and give them our full support. the political reality is that, in addition to security, energy has become the oxygen for democracy, so it is high time that we upgraded the political integration of the european union to include energy integration. i also welcome the decision by the heads of state to discuss the eu-us trade agreement, as negotiations on this have already made considerable progress. the eighth round of negotiations is over and it is high time that this agreement is discussed constructively and that a framework is set up that must be respected if it is to be adopted. if we succeed, ttip has the potential to secure high-skilled jobs and enable growth and development on both sides of the atlantic. only such a ttip will win my support.
written. ‒ the commission's proposal is limited to the codification of existing acts without substantial changes to them, which is why i support the accompanying resolution.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the draft legislative resolution of the european parliament on the proposal for a regulation of the parliament and of the council on common rules for imports from certain third countries, as this does not affect the substance of the proposal but is mainly a matter of technical amendments. in a very important area such as trade policy, it is crucial that eu law is made clearer and more accessible to citizens. i consider that the codification and amendment of this regulation will contribute to legal certainty and reduce the need for research activities when searching for the rules in force.
written. ‒ this proposal amends and codifies regulation (ec) no 625/2009 of the european parliament and of the council on common rules for imports from certain third countries. the basic act regulates the introduction of safeguard and surveillance instruments applicable to imports of products, including imports of coal and steel from a limited number of countries such as azerbaijan, kazakhstan, belarus, turkmenistan, uzbekistan and north korea. this proposed change updates the appendix to the regulation and removes from the list the countries that have meanwhile become members of the world trade organisation: armenia, russia, tajikistan and vietnam. the act will not undergo any other substantive changes. since i expect that the amended text will contribute to greater legal certainty in the application of the act in relations, both between eu countries and those third countries and between their economic operators in trade covered by the provisions of the regulation, i supported this proposal.
written. ‒ the consultative working party of the legal services of the european parliament, the council and the commission is of the opinion that the commission proposal does not contain any substantive changes other than those indicated as such in the proposal and that the proposal, as regards the codification of the unchanged provisions of the previous acts and those amendments, is limited to the codification of existing acts without substantial changes to them, and i therefore support it.
written. ‒ i support the welsh mp's report because it is important to codify this technical proposal for a regulation which talks about common rules for imports in general, but also for imports of textiles from certain third countries. following the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon, a new act was needed to ensure that the previous decisions were aligned with the new acts. this was achieved by the omnibus i and ii acts, which amend a number of trade-related regulations, including the regulation on common rules for imports from certain third countries. the most important changes were made in terms of the removal from the list of 'third countries' that have become members of the world trade organisation. the common commercial policy should be based on uniform principles, taking into account the specific characteristics of the economic systems in third countries. the liberalisation of imports, namely the absence of quantitative restrictions, should therefore be the starting point for union rules, and in the case of protection of the union's interests, the commission is competent to adopt safeguard measures, taking into account international obligations.
written. ‒ the commission proposal concerns the codification and recasting of regulation (ec) no 625/2009 on common rules for imports from certain third countries. the commission has also proposed to extend the scope of the proposal to include the protection and surveillance instruments applicable to imports of products including coal and steel, but excluding textiles subject to a specific regulation. the regulation concerns only a limited number of countries, namely azerbaijan, belarus, kazakhstan, north korea, turkmenistan and uzbekistan. the safeguard instrument is rarely used in practice and as far as surveillance is concerned, the last surveillance measure in force for steel products expired on 31 december 2012. the main change concerns the update of the additions for removal for the countries that have now become members of the world trade organisation, namely armenia, russia, tajikistan and vietnam. i would like to emphasise that the advisory working group has unanimously decided that the proposal does not contain any significant changes other than those already identified, and therefore i support the report.
written. ‒ montenegro has made some progress in the fight against corruption, but it is necessary to ensure greater independence of the judiciary and to demonstrate the political will to systematically investigate, prosecute and punish corruption regardless of the political background and position of the perpetrators. the judiciary and the prosecution are most effective in fighting corruption when they are given maximum autonomy and independence from political structures. i speak from the perspective of croatia, which has shown in recent years that there are no untouchables before the judiciary. eu influence and pressure on this issue has been crucial. free and independent media also play a key role in the fight against corruption and in the democratization of society in general.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the draft legislative resolution of the european parliament on the proposal for a regulation of the parliament and of the council on certain procedures for applying the stabilisation and association agreement between the european communities and their member states, of the one part, and the republic of montenegro, of the other part, as this is the way in which the content of the acts to be codified is incorporated into the proposal, thereby bringing them together in a single act. the consolidated acts do not change their content, but are simplified and made clearer and more accessible to citizens. i also support the recommendations of the advisory groups of the legal services of parliament, the council and the commission, which have contributed to making eu law more precise and transparent.
written. ‒ i support the report by mr dude, since, in the opinion of the consultative working party of the legal services of the european parliament, the council and the commission, the proposal in question is limited to the codification of existing texts without any substantive changes.
written. ‒ i support the report by mr andrzej dude on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on certain procedures for applying the stabilisation and association agreement between the european communities and their member states, of the one part, and the republic of montenegro, of the other part, and for applying the interim agreement between the european community, of the one part, and the republic of montenegro, of the other part, as the consultative group of the legal services of the european parliament, the council and the commission has unanimously concluded that the proposal indeed merely codifies the existing texts without any substantive changes. the purpose of the proposal is to codify council regulation (ec) no 140/2008 of 19 november 2007, which has been amended several times. the codification of acts, which are subject to frequent amendments, is essential to simplify and clarify european union law in order to make it clearer and more accessible to citizens and to give them the opportunity to exercise their specific rights under it. codification also provides certainty as to the law applicable to a particular subject-matter at a particular time. i welcome the continued efforts of the expert services of parliament, the council and the commission in the codification procedures.
written. ‒ having regard to council decision (14187/2013) and the protocol to the stabilisation and association agreement between the european communities and their member states, of the one part, and the republic of montenegro, and to the request for assent submitted by the council pursuant to article 217, in conjunction with article 218, paragraph 6, second subparagraph, points (a) and (b) and article 218, paragraph 8, second subparagraph, of the treaty on the functioning of the european union (c7-0007/2014) and to the proposal of the committee on foreign affairs (a7-0192/2014), i support the stabilisation and association agreement.
written. the purpose of this report is to codify the above-mentioned council and parliament regulation without any substantive changes. the presidency of the european council in edinburgh in 1992 confirmed the codification of all procedures after more than ten amendments, stressing their importance. the new proposal for a regulation fully preserves the unique content of the acts. the main codified provisions contain a proposal laying down certain procedures for the adoption of detailed rules for the implementation of the provisions of the stabilisation and association agreement between the european communities and their member states, of the one part, and the republic of montenegro, of the other part. it provides that fishery products originating in montenegro may be imported into the european union at a reduced customs duty, within the limits of tariff quotas. it is therefore necessary to lay down provisions governing the management of those tariff quotas. the proposal lays down in particular concessions for fish, fishery products and certain tariff reductions and lays down conditions concerning safeguard clauses for agricultural and fishery products. in my view, these measures should be adopted in accordance with a regulation of the european parliament and of the council and the commission should adopt immediately applicable acts.
in writing. ‒ i support the proposal for a regulation of the commission, the european parliament and the council opening and providing for the administration of certain union tariff quotas for high-quality beef, pigmeat, poultrymeat, wheat and silage and other residues. the proposal is adapted to the recommendations of the consultative working party of the legal services of the european parliament, the council and the commission and is limited to the codification of existing texts without any substantive changes.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the draft legislative resolution of the european parliament on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council opening and providing for the administration of certain union tariff quotas for high-quality beef, pigmeat, poultrymeat, wheat and sorghum and soya beans and other residues, as i believe that the european union's law in this area must be as clear and transparent as possible. the european union must make its legal acts easier and more effective to find and understand, and codification is moving in that direction. this proposal guarantees legal certainty and reduces the need for research work in order to find out what rules are in force.
‒ the european commission decided on 1 april 1987 that no more than 10 amendments to an act should be codified, citing the recommendation of the european council confirmed in edinburgh in december 1992, and on 20 december 1994 an agreement was reached between the european parliament, the council and the commission which further accelerated the process of codification by adopting the appropriate legal instruments. council regulation (ec) no 774/94 of 29 march 1994 opening and providing for the application of certain union tariff quotas for high-quality beef, pigmeat, poultrymeat, wheat and meslin, and for soya beans and other residues has been amended several times. the regulation governs the terms reached in the course of the negotiations on tariff concessions under article xxviii of the general agreement on tariffs and trade (gatt) and agreed during the uruguay round of multilateral trade negotiations on quotas. the basic regulation aimed at opening annual union tariff quotas for high-quality products. the proposal for a new regulation will bring together the different actions covered by the previous amendments and fully preserve the substance of the act. in order to ensure that the proposed codification is applied correctly among the shares to which it has legal effect, i consider it necessary as it contributes to greater legal certainty in the application of the act and have therefore supported this proposal.
written. ‒ according to the advisory group of the legal services of the european parliament, the council and the commission, the proposal in question is limited to the codification of existing texts without any substantive changes. this formal procedure increases the transparency of the process and allows citizens to be fully informed about this issue through simplified rules, which is why i support it.
written. ‒ i support the report by mr andrzej dude on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council opening and providing for the administration of certain union tariff quotas for high-quality beef, pigmeat, poultrymeat, wheat and sorghum and silage and other residues, because the consultative group of the legal services of the european parliament, the council and the commission has pointed out that the proposal is limited to the codification of existing texts without substantial changes. the purpose of the proposal is to codify regulation no 774/94 of 29 march 1994, which has been amended several times. the new regulation brings together the various acts and transposes the content of the acts with the formal amendments necessary for codification, thus contributing to transparency and openness. the european parliament thus supports simplification, which will make union law clearer and more accessible to eu citizens. i welcome the continued efforts of the expert services of parliament, the council and the commission in the codification procedures.
written. ‒ i supported the report on the proposal to open union tariff quotas for high-quality beef, pigmeat, poultrymeat, wheat and triticale and soya beans and other residues, given the importance of consumer protection. the greens/efa club has consistently stressed the importance of the origin of meat and other food products, and 90% of consumers in the european union agree with us. i consider it essential to ensure greater transparency throughout the food chain and stronger information for citizens and citizens of the union. the transparency and information just mentioned provide us with the tools to fight food fraud and provide the necessary protection. in order to protect the common market and domestic producers from excessive imports from third countries, the eu must continue to apply a number of measures in the trade sector. the commission has also found that the quota system is not in conformity with the union's rules on trade in agricultural products. the republic of croatia has doubled its beef production by 52% in 2014 compared to 2013, beef imports by 142%, pork by 60% and poultry by 44%. i expect further involvement of croatian businessmen in more transparent trade cooperation with third countries.
written. ‒ according to the advisory group of the legal services of the european parliament, the council and the commission, the proposal in question is limited to the codification of existing texts without any substantive changes. as regards the opening and administration of certain union tariff quotas for high-quality beef, pigmeat, poultrymeat, wheat and sorghum and silage and other residues, the advisory group unanimously concluded that the proposal does indeed limit itself to the codification of existing texts without substantial changes, and i therefore support it.
written. the proposal aims to open annual tariff quotas, whereby the council regulation must be codified in accordance with the procedure laid down by the interinstitutional agreement of 20 december 1994, which requires the official codification of legislative texts to be accelerated. the purpose of the proposal is to codify the council regulation of 29 march 1994 in the interests of clarity and rationality. the european union is negotiating tariff concessions on the basis of the general agreement on tariffs and trade and the uruguay round multilateral trade negotiations which led to the agreement allowing the opening of certain annual tariff quotas for high-quality beef, pork, poultrymeat, wheat and meslin and other cereals and residues. i consider that the rules necessary for the application of the quotas provided for in this regulation, and, where appropriate, the provisions guaranteeing the nature, provenance and origin of the products, those relating to the recognition of the documents allowing those guarantees and those relating to the issue of import licences and their expiry, should be adopted by means of implementing acts.
written. ‒ according to the advisory group of the legal services of the european parliament, the council and the commission, the proposal is limited to the codification of existing texts without any substantive changes. i support the motion.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the draft legislative resolution of the european parliament on the proposal for a regulation of the parliament and of the council on the importation into the union of agricultural products originating in turkey because it is precisely the process of codification that contributes to simplifying and explaining european union law in the context of a europe for citizens, so that the union's legal texts are as clear and transparent as possible. in this context, i support the interinstitutional agreement allowing for an accelerated procedure for the adoption of codified acts, and the involvement of the commission staff in the codification of acts after a maximum of ten amendments. i also believe that it is important to ensure that citizens have easy access to their rights and that they are guaranteed.
‒ the regulation on the importation into the union of agricultural products originating in turkey adopted in 1998 has been amended several times. this procedure, in the interests of clarity and rationality, on the basis of the decision of the european commission of 1 april 1987, the recommendation of the european council of december 1992 and the agreement between the european parliament, the council and the commission of 20 december 1994, codifies council regulation (ec) no 779/98 of 7 april 1998 and repeals regulations (eec) no 4115/86 and (ec) no 3010/95. in particular, as decision no 1/98 of the ec-turkey association council established a system of preferences applicable to imports into the union of agricultural products originating in turkey, the proposal for a regulation lays down the uniform conditions for the implementation of that system. the proposal for a new regulation will bring together the various amendments that were covered by previous procedures for amending the basic act while preserving fully the substance of the act. as i have always advocated transparent legal texts, without the need to consult them painstakingly in the form of multiple amendments and supplements which, often in an unclear manner, are passed through the various acts and which make it difficult for interested parties to find and read, and ultimately to apply, these acts, i welcome this codification.
written. ‒ according to the advisory group of the legal services of the european parliament, the council and the commission, the proposal in question is limited to the codification of existing texts without any substantive changes. this formal procedure increases the transparency of the process and allows citizens to be fully informed about this issue through simplified rules, which is why i support it.
written. ‒ i support the report by mr andrzej dude on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the importation into the union of agricultural products originating in turkey because the advisory group of the legal services of the european parliament, the council and the commission has pointed out that the proposal is limited to the codification of existing texts without any substantive changes. the purpose of the proposal is to codify regulation no 779/98 of 7 april 1998, which has been amended several times. the new regulation consolidates the scattered acts and transposes the content of the scattered acts into a single act with the formal amendments necessary for codification, thus contributing to transparency and openness. the european parliament thus supports simplification, which will make union law clearer and more accessible to eu citizens. i welcome the continued efforts of the expert services of parliament, the council and the commission in the codification procedures.
written. ‒ since, in the opinion of the consultative working party of the legal services of the european parliament, the council and the commission, the proposal in question is limited to the codification of existing texts without substantial changes, and the consultative working party, after having examined the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council codifying council regulation (ec) no 779/98 of 7 april 1998 concerning the import into the community of agricultural products originating in turkey, repealing regulation (eec) no 4115/86 and amending regulation (ec) no 3010/95, has unanimously concluded that the proposal is indeed limited to the codification of existing texts without substantial changes, i support the report.
written. ‒ i supported the report on the regulation of concessions relating to the importation into the union of agricultural products originating in turkey. the advisory group of the legal services of the ep, the council and the commission points out that the proposal contains a formal codification of existing legislative texts without interfering with their content. the legal affairs committee accepted the report which was intended to clarify and rationalise the council's codification of regulation no 1506/98 of july 1998 establishing a community tariff quota for turkey with a view to suspending certain concessions. the aim of the new regulation is to replace the acts without changing their substance and as such to combine them with the official amendments as required by the codification itself.
written. ‒ the resolution is limited to the codification of existing texts without any change in content. i support the text.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the draft legislative resolution of the european parliament on the proposal for a regulation of the parliament and of the council suspending certain concessions relating to the importation into the union of agricultural products originating in turkey, as i consider it to be the obligation of the european union to provide its citizens with easy access to legal acts. the scattered nature of the provisions in the various acts leads to the need for the rapid adoption of codified acts in order to make the provisions clearer. the consolidation therefore focuses on simplification which does not change the substance of the acts. this reduces the need for research to find the rules in force and ensures a faster and more efficient understanding of eu acts.
written. the basic text of council regulation (ec) no 1506/98 of 29 march 1994 suspending certain concessions relating to the importation into the union of agricultural products originating in turkey provides for the suspension of certain concessions in respect of imbalances in trade between member states in agricultural products resulting from the application of certain prohibitions on imports of certain agricultural products into turkey from the eu. in particular, turkey has applied a ban on the import of live animals (beef) since 1996 and has imposed restrictions on imports of beef from the european union. in order to protect the union's trade interests, the provisions of the regulation have taken appropriate reciprocal measures and some of the existing concessions have been suspended. the regulation has been amended several times and needs to be codified. on 1 april 1987, the european commission decided that no more than ten amendments to an act should be codified, citing the recommendation of the european council confirmed in edinburgh in december 1992, and on 20 december 1994 an agreement was reached between the european parliament, the council and the commission which further accelerated the process of codification by adopting the appropriate legal instruments. the proposal for a new regulation will harmonise the acts and procedures covered by the previous amendments and fully preserve the substance of the act. in order to ensure the correct application of this regulation, i consider the proposed codification to be justified.
written. ‒ according to the advisory group of the legal services of the european parliament, the council and the commission, this proposal is limited to the codification of existing texts without any substantive changes. this formal procedure increases the transparency of the process and allows citizens to be fully informed about this issue through simplified rules, which is why i support it.
written. ‒ one of the measures to make the work of the commission and the other eu institutions more transparent is to simplify and explain eu law so that it is clearer and more accessible to citizens. to achieve this objective, or if the law must be clear and transparent, the process of codifying rules, which change frequently, is of key importance. the purpose of this proposal is to codify council regulation (ec) no 1506/98 of 13 july 1998 introducing a preference for turkey in the form of a community tariff quota for hazelnuts in 1998 and suspending certain preferences. the new regulation will replace various scattered acts, which certainly contributes to transparency and openness. therefore, i support the report of the mep andrzej dude on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council suspending certain concessions relating to the importation into the union of agricultural products originating in turkey, as, in the opinion of the consultative working party of the legal services of the european parliament and of the council, the proposal indeed limits itself to a codification of existing texts without any substantive changes.
written. ‒ whereas, in the opinion of the consultative working party of the legal services of the european parliament, the council and the commission, the proposal in question is limited to the codification of existing texts without substantial changes, and whereas the consultative working party has unanimously concluded, on the basis of its examination of the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council codifying council regulation (ec) no 1506/98 of 13 july 1998 introducing a preference for turkey in the form of a tariff quota for hazelnuts in 1998 and suspending certain preferences, that the proposal constitutes a straightforward codification of existing texts without substantial changes, i support this report.
written. ‒ the agreement establishing the general fisheries commission for the mediterranean (gfcm), in accordance with the provisions of article xiv of the fao constitution, was approved at the 1949 session of the fao conference and entered into force in 1952. the gfcm is a regional fisheries management organisation (rfmo) whose objective is to promote the development, conservation and optimum exploitation of living marine resources and their rational management as well as the sustainable development of aquaculture in the mediterranean and black sea. these amendments to the agreement revised the structure and content of the existing agreement to bring it into line with the latest rfmo instruments. the amended agreement is consistent with the main objectives of the common fisheries policy. the aim of the proposal is to conclude the amended gfcm agreement on behalf of the european union, which i support.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the draft legislative resolution of the european parliament on the draft council decision adopting the amended agreement establishing the general fisheries commission for the mediterranean, as it gives its consent to the conclusion of an agreement that will modernise and upgrade the commission in question and strengthen its role in the conservation of marine resources. i believe that it is essential to ensure the sustainable and coordinated exploitation of marine resources and ecosystems in order to achieve their long-term and balanced conservation. in this context, it is important to clearly articulate the overarching objective of the biosocial, economic and environmental sustainability of living marine resources and to better define the responsibilities of the general commission and the relevant sanctions. the commission shall be assisted by the european parliament and the council.
written. ‒ this amendment to the agreement sets a clear general objective of the biological, social, economic and environmental sustainability of living marine resources and provides new definitions of terms necessary for a correct interpretation of the agreement establishing the general fisheries commission for the mediterranean. the gfcm's role should be further defined to include the promotion of joint fisheries management through multiannual management plans, the establishment of restricted fishing areas and the collection and exchange of data. in this sense, the new agreement covers the basic components of the common fisheries policy relating to: maximising sustainable yield, protecting ecosystems and applying the precautionary principle, reducing discards and combating illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing. in addition, the amendment to the agreement establishes provisions to determine measures and sanctions to address non-coordinated conduct by non-gfcm parties and establishes a well-defined mechanism for resolving disputes if they arise between the parties to the agreement. as croatia is a party to the agreement, i believe that a clearer regulation of these areas will contribute to a better implementation of a fisheries policy aimed at greater yield sustainability and ecosystem protection, and at the same time allow better communication of the exceptions and needs of specific mediterranean areas such as the croatian islands or the islands in the aegean sea.
‒ the gfcm is a regional fisheries management organisation (rfmo) whose objective is to promote the development, conservation and optimum exploitation of living marine resources and their rational management as well as the sustainable development of aquaculture in the mediterranean and the black sea. the amendment of the gfcm agreement was launched in 2013 following a performance review finalised in 2011 which concluded that the agreement needed to be amended in order to clarify the objectives and functions of the gfcm and to increase its effectiveness. in this context, the new agreement covers the basic components of the common fisheries policy relating to the objective of maximum sustainable yield, ecosystems and precautionary approach, reducing discards and combating illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing. i support the amended agreement which is in line with the main objectives of the common fisheries policy. the proposal aims to conclude the amended gfcm agreement on behalf of the european union and i hope that, in addition to meeting the basic objectives of the common fisheries policy, the traditional and cultural specificities of our fishermen will also be taken into account. this is primarily for small-scale fishermen who are completely marginalised by the existing system, even though it is a tradition and a way of life, not a disruption of the ecosystem and a profitable activity.
written. ‒ i support the agreement to establish a general commission for mediterranean fisheries, primarily because i represent croatia, a mediterranean and adriatic country which by its very position has an interest in investing in long-term development, the use of living marine resources, the preservation of ecosystems and the healthy coexistence of man and nature. i believe that this amendment creates a more convincing and better picture of the agreement itself because it sets clear objectives in terms of biological, social, economic policy of the sea and sustainable development. the commission's own role in fisheries, which includes promoting joint fisheries management through multiannual plans and the establishment of fisheries protection areas, is better defined. the agreement covers the basic elements of normal fishing procedures relating to maximum sustainable yield, the fight against all types of poaching and the reduction of fish arrivals. the regulation lays down penalties in the event of non-compliance by member states. the parties shall cooperate in the implementation of this agreement. the aim of this agreement is primarily to protect the 'blue ribbon', which is a long-term strategy and to support the sustainable development of the marine and coastal sector as a whole. they must be the drivers of europe's economy and have a great potential for innovation and growth. so i reiterate that we all need to insist on smart and sustainable growth and development in accordance with nature and human needs.
written. ‒ the amendments to the general fisheries commission for the mediterranean (gfcm) agreement were launched in 2013 and after a performance review finalised in 2011, it was concluded that the agreement should be amended to clarify the objectives and functions of the gfcm and to enhance its effectiveness. the negotiations were conducted between the member states and the commission and within their respective areas of competence in accordance with the terms of the mandate. the amended agreement revises the structure and content of the current one in order to bring it into line with the modern rfmo instruments. the aim of the new agreement is to set a clear overall objective of biological, social, economic and environmental sustainability of natural resources. it also provides definitions of terms necessary for the proper interpretation of the agreement. the more defined functions of the gfcm include the promotion of joint fisheries management through multiannual management plans, the establishment of fisheries in restricted areas, and the collection and dissemination of data. in this context, the new agreement integrates the fundamental objectives of maximum sustainable yield, ecosystems, reducing discharges, combating illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing, and i therefore support it.
written. the commission, on behalf of the european union, invites the council to adopt a decision approving the amended treaty establishing the general fisheries commission for the mediterranean, known as the regional fisheries management organisation, with the aim of promoting the development, conservation, rational management and best use of living marine resources and the sustainable development of aquaculture in the mediterranean and the black sea. the amendments to the general commission agreement were launched in 2013 to clarify its objectives and functions and to enhance its effectiveness. the revised agreement revises the structure and content of the existing agreement and sets clear targets for the biological, ecological, social, economic and environmental sustainability of natural resources. it also integrates the fundamental elements of the common fisheries policy in terms of maximum sustainable yield and the fight against illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing. in view of the common interest in the development and proper use of living marine resources in the mediterranean and black sea, and the conservation and sustainable use of marine resources and the protection of marine ecosystems, it is recommended that parliament give its consent to the conclusion of this modified agreement, which i personally support.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the motion for a european parliament decision requesting the waiver of the immunity of theodoros zagorakis in accordance with the proposal we have received. in accordance with article 8 of protocol no 7 on the privileges and immunities of the european union, the present case does not concern the expression of an opinion in the exercise of the office of member of the european parliament but an alleged offence. it is also important to note that the prosecution was initiated before mr zagorakis became a member of this parliament.
written. ‒ i respect the recommendation of the rapporteur because, although the criminal prosecution is not related to expressing an opinion or voting in the performance of his duties as a member of the european parliament within the meaning of article 8 of protocol no 7 on the privileges and immunities of the european union, and the alleged offence is clearly not related to the performance of the duties of mr zagorakis as a member of the european parliament but to his function as president of paok football club, there is no reason to assume that the criminal prosecution was initiated with the intention of causing political damage to the member concerned (fumus persecutionis) because it was initiated several years before he became a member of the european parliament.
written. - i have supported the report of the representative evelyn regner on the request for the waiver of the immunity of the representative theodoros zagorakis. parliamentary immunity is a legal instrument to protect the unimpeded functioning of members and thus constitutes a necessary means of safeguarding parliament's independence. in order to be credible, it is important that parliamentary immunity be an instrument of protection against politically motivated persecution only. in the case of fellow mep theodorus zagorakis, the legal affairs committee found that it was not a criminal prosecution initiated with the intention of causing political damage to the mep, as it was initiated several years before he became a member of the european parliament. as the procedure initiated has nothing to do with the performance of theodoros zagorakis' duties as a member of the european parliament, i agree with the unanimous decision of the committee on legal affairs to waive immunity, as the legal remedy of protection of citizens' representatives at the level of the european union must not place members of parliament above the law.
written. ‒ i support the decision of the european parliament to waive the immunity of theodoros zagorakis, since he is accused of causing bodily injury by accident and of failing to comply with safety regulations at work, and the alleged offence is clearly not related to the performance of his duties as a member of the european parliament but to his function as president of the football club paok.
written. i supported the report on the basis of a request by the assistant public prosecutor of the supreme court of greece submitted on 19 december 2014 concerning the taking of legal measures for the alleged criminal offence of causing bodily harm. theodoros zagorakis is accused of having, in the course of his duties as president of the greek football club paok, unintentionally caused bodily harm to one of the employees of that club. the european parliament has decided to vote to waive the immunity of member of parliament theodoros zagorakis. i support this position and vote for the waiver of immunity as my colleague the mp himself has requested and thus giving full respect and confidence to the greek judicial system.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the motion for a european parliament decision requesting the waiver of the immunity of mr sergei stanishev on the grounds that it is a criminal offence and that the judicial investigation procedure started before mr stanishev became a member of the european parliament. in addition, mr stanishev submitted two statements to the president of the bulgarian national assembly agreeing to criminal proceedings being brought against him while he was acting as prime minister of the republic of bulgaria and as a member of the national assembly.
written. ‒ i respect the rapporteur's recommendation because the judicial investigation procedure in relation to sergei stanishev started long before he became a member of the european parliament and taking into account that the said criminal procedure is in no way connected with his function as a member of the european parliament. although the alleged offence is not directly or ostensibly connected with the performance of sergei stanishev's duties as a member of the european parliament, nor is it related to the expression of an opinion or vote in the performance of his duties as a member of the european parliament within the meaning of article 8 of protocol no 7 on the privileges and immunities of the european union, there is no reason to assume, that is to say, a sufficiently serious and well-founded suspicion, that the proceedings were initiated with the intention of causing political damage to the member concerned (fumus persecutionis).
written. ‒ i supported the report of the representative andrzej dude on the request for the waiver of the immunity of the representative sergei stanishev. parliamentary immunity is a legal instrument to protect the unimpeded functioning of members and thus constitutes a necessary means of safeguarding parliament's independence. in order to be credible, it is important that parliamentary immunity be an instrument of protection against politically motivated persecution only. in the case of sergei stanishev, the committee on legal affairs has established that this is not a criminal prosecution initiated with the intention of causing political damage to the member, as it was initiated before he became a member of the european parliament. as the procedure initiated has nothing to do with sergei stanishev's performance of his duties as a member of the european parliament, i agree with the unanimous decision of the committee on legal affairs to waive immunity, as the legal remedy of protection of citizens' representatives at the level of the european union must not place members of parliament above the law.
written. sergei stanishev allegedly lost documents containing state secrets information and was subject to criminal proceedings in 2009 with a request for authorisation to do so. mr. stanishev immediately agreed to initiate criminal proceedings against him and submitted a written statement to that effect. the criminal proceedings were soon halted when mr stanishev became a member of the national assembly, thereby gaining the right to renewed immunity. mr. stanishev has again given his consent to the criminal proceedings being brought against him and they are ongoing. however, when mr stanishev was elected as a member of the european parliament in 2014, the court decided to suspend the proceedings due to a new type of immunity. since the judicial investigation procedure in relation to sergei stanishev started long before he became a member of the european parliament, the said criminal procedure is therefore in no way connected with his function as a member of parliament and that during the period when he was acting as prime minister and then as a member of the national assembly, in accordance with article 70 (2) of the constitution of the republic of bulgaria, he submitted two written statements to the president of the national assembly in which he gave his consent to the initiation of criminal proceedings against him, i support this report.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution of the european parliament on the general guidelines for the preparation of the 2016 budget , part iii, because i believe that this proposal is aimed at growth, competitiveness and jobs and represents a kind of investment budget that pays great attention to the structural and investment funds. i believe that one of the key things about the eu budget is that it focuses on reducing disparities between european regions, where it is needed most. regional and local authorities within the european union have a crucial role to play in achieving overall competitiveness and growth. in this context, the budgetary contribution to territorial, economic and social cohesion, and to the innovation and research sectors is important. it should also be stressed that part of the european budget must necessarily be directed towards smes, of which there are more than 20 million within the eu. the year 2016 is of great importance as it is the year when the eu programmes of the 2014-2020 multiannual financial framework will be operational and therefore the political priorities of the union need to be taken into account in order to achieve the objectives set.
written. ‒ the eu budget is first and foremost an investment budget with a strong leverage effect that serves as a catalyst for growth, competitiveness and jobs across the union. due to persistent economic and budgetary constraints at national level, the eu budget plays a key role in fostering competitiveness and increasing economic, social and territorial cohesion in the union. the wide range of eu programmes, including horizon 2020, cosme and erasmus+, directly contributes to the achievement of the objectives. the commission should also be able to assess the impact of the new rules on the application of the union state aid rules on the taxation of savings income and on the taxation of savings income in the member states. it is good that the european structural and investment funds, which are key to job creation and competitiveness, account for the largest share of eu budget expenditure. the eu budget should be a means of fostering internal solidarity by supporting economic, social and territorial cohesion, combating poverty and promoting inclusion in society. the budget is also a tool for external solidarity, as it makes the eu the largest provider of development aid to countries and people exposed to humanitarian and civil crises. finally, i hope that the adoption of this year's budget will not be confronted with last year's problem of unpaid bills. only a balanced and proportionate budget can enable the eu to realise its full potential.
written. - i support the report of my colleague jose manuel fernandez. the commission shall be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 264 concerning the establishment of a european youth employment initiative. the eu budget, as the report highlights, should be the backbone for the formation and potential mobilisation of eur 315 billion through the efsi with the support of the commission, which will finance investments in infrastructure, education, research, smes and thus make up for the lack of public and private investment. the commission shall be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 264 concerning the establishment of a european data protection supervisor. i also support the work of the council, the commission and parliament in tackling the problem of unpaid invoices, which reached eur 24.7 billion for the period 2007-2013. the commission should be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 290 tfeu concerning the establishment of a european agency for the operational management of large-scale it systems in the area of freedom, security and justice, in particular by means of implementing acts. the eu should remain the largest provider of humanitarian, civil and development assistance, as is currently the case with ukraine, and therefore the budget should allocate significant resources to this end as an instrument of external solidarity.
written. ‒ the effects of the economic and financial crisis are being felt in all eu member states. the level of investment in the eu has fallen significantly and the development gap between different regions in the eu has increased. unemployment, especially youth unemployment, is a problem for most member states. i supported this report on the 2016 budgetary guidelines because it includes measures to recover three main areas: employment, enterprise and entrepreneurship. job creation and the development of businesses and entrepreneurship represent smart, sustainable and inclusive growth for the european union. the eu budget is a means of fostering internal solidarity by supporting economic, social and territorial cohesion, tackling poverty and helping to reduce inequalities in the development of not only the member states but also their regions. the commission should also be able to use the information provided by the member states to assess the impact of the union's financial instruments on the union's external finances.
written. i support this report because the eu budget serves as a catalyst for growth, competitiveness and jobs across the union and has a key role to play in reducing disparities between european regions and securing investment in areas where it is most needed. the budget shall highlight the recovery of jobs, enterprises and entrepreneurship for smart, sustainable and inclusive growth in the european union. the eu budget is a means of fostering internal solidarity by supporting economic, social and territorial cohesion, combating poverty, promoting social inclusion and helping to reduce inequalities in the development of not only the member states but also their regions. it is also a means of external solidarity and serves to provide emergency assistance during humanitarian and civil crises by offering assistance to countries in need, as is the case with ukraine, and it makes the eu the largest provider of development assistance to meet the eu's commitments to eradicate poverty, as confirmed in the european consensus on development, and contributes to the global development strategy beyond 2015.
written. ‒ i voted against the report on the general guidelines for the preparation of the 2016 budget. while the report focuses on policies that enable smart and inclusive growth and foster competition for employment and development and job creation, attention should be focused on investing in visible untapped potential as well as on the revision of the multiannual financial framework that sets long-term spending priorities. the ultimate goal of pooling resources is to reduce inequalities between countries in order to allow poorer member states to participate on an equal footing in the revitalisation of the european economy. this will only be possible if better coordination of national and eu policies is achieved and sufficient space and support is provided for innovation and research, the development of better transport and energy routes and, ultimately, the achievement of a more globally competitive european economy.
madam president, every year the european commission publishes a report on the protection of the financial interests of the european union. the aim is to prevent fraud and promote sound financial management. the commission also notes that the 2013 report on the financial corrections of the european union to the general budget of the union for the financial year 2013 was published in the official journal of the european union on 29 march 2013. this may indicate that the detection system is working better, but it also points to the need for more effective prevention measures. i supported this report which calls for greater cooperation between member states and the european commission to increase transparency and accountability and to tackle corruption, organised crime, tax evasion and tax avoidance in order to minimise the negative financial impact of fraud and irregularities.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the european parliament resolution on the 2013 annual report on the protection of the eu's financial interests: fight against fraud, as it is vital to ensure the proper management and efficient use of eu funds. i fully support the fight against corruption, fraud, money laundering and any other illegal activities detrimental to the financial interests of the union, the allocation of additional resources to combat such activities, and the principles of accountability and transparency. in this regard, greater and structured coordination between member states, anti-corruption bodies, managing authorities and the european commission is needed, as well as the exchange of good practices to harmonise the approach to fight corruption. the commission should be able to verify that the information provided by the member states is accurate and that the information provided by the member states is correct. the quality of protection of the eu's financial interests enhances citizens' trust in the european institutions and contributes to the achievement of the union's objectives and policies.
written. ‒ given the current economic difficulties faced by the member states and the lack of resources in the eu budget, the protection of the financial interests of the european union is particularly important. in 2013, a total of 15 779 irregularities were reported to the commission for a total amount of approximately eur 2,14 billion, of which approximately eur 1,76 billion related to expenditure of the eu budget, representing 1,34% of all payments, and the remaining eur 380 million representing 1,86% of the gross accumulated traditional own resources. the recovery rate for fraud cases in 2013 was only 23,74%, which is below the average level of 33,5%. the direct loss of customs revenue caused by cigarette smuggling is estimated at more than eur 10 billion per year. the commission and the member states are both obliged to do everything in their power to combat fraud, corruption and any other illegal activity affecting the financial interests of the union. the protection of the financial interests of the eu, together with the principle of sound financial management, should ensure that budget revenue and expenditure contribute to the fulfilment of the eu's priorities and objectives and to building greater trust among citizens by convincing them that their money is used in accordance with the eu's objectives and policies and in the interest of the eu citizens.
written. ‒ i support the report by mr pirinsky because the protection of the financial interests of the european union is particularly important and the financial resources allocated to the functioning of the eu must be properly managed and used in a meaningful way. investigating and reporting financial irregularities and fraud is an important segment of the fight, and therefore this report has strong implications for further work. the detection of fraud in the cohesion policy segment of the eu budget shows where funds are going wrongly. the new control of cohesion policy planning will prevent and reduce the risk of irregularities. the european anti-fraud office (olaf) has the most important role to play in protecting and controlling revenue and expenditure, i.e. in combating irregularities in the spending of funds. its further work will significantly reduce financial fraud in the eu. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the budget and the implementation of the budgetary and financial management. the commission should also strongly advocate a strict policy on termination and suspension. each member state of the union is obliged to appoint, by the end of 2014, an anti-fraud coordination office which will strengthen olaf's cooperation with the member states.
written. ‒ i supported the report on the 2013 annual report on the protection of the eu's financial interests, as the protection of the eu's financial interests and the fight against fraud should ensure that budget revenue and expenditure contribute to the fulfilment of the eu's priorities and objectives, but also to building up citizens' trust. the commission has also been asked to provide a report on the implementation of the new law on corruption and to provide a report on the implementation of the new law on corruption and corruption. the report showed that fraud was 38 percent less in 2013 but that the number of irregularities reported increased by 16 percent compared to the same year. it is particularly interesting that cigarettes, as the most and most easily smuggled product, have caused significant revenue losses to the budgets of the eu and its member states. the direct loss of customs revenue caused by cigarette smuggling is estimated at more than eur 10 billion per year. in the light of the above, i consider that improved cooperation between the member states and the commission is necessary in order to ensure appropriate measures to avoid and correct irregularities and i therefore call on the member states to demonstrate strong political will in the fight against corruption.
written. ‒ the the annual report underlines the obligation of both the commission and the member states to do everything in their power to combat all other forms of illegal activities affecting the financial interests of the union, in accordance with the provisions of the treaty on the functioning of the european union. the commission should be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 290 tfeu concerning the establishment of a european data protection supervisor. the protection of the financial interests of the union, in the area of resources and expenditure, requires an equal level of vigilance. i welcome the report because 98% of the traditional own funds were raised without significant problems and the reported irregularities considered as fraudulent amounted to 0,29% of the gross established traditional own funds (worth eur 61 million) while the irregularities not considered as fraudulent amounted to 1,57% of the traditional own funds (worth eur 327,4 million). this report refers to the ongoing work on improving gni data and to the issues raised in the thematic report of the european court of auditors 11/2013 that require a shorter, more focused audit of gni amounts and improved reporting and coordination of results in order to make the gni system more reliable in contributing to the calculation of eu revenue.
written. the report helps to identify the areas most at risk of fraud by allowing for more precise identification of anti-fraud measures both at eu-wide and national level. this year, the report is largely based on the progress made by member states in developing the national anti-corruption coordination services that had to be established in relation to olaf regulations. the aim of these services is to work closely with olaf in order to join forces to fight fraud. the report welcomes the efforts made by the commission to protect the financial interests of the union and stresses that the fight against corruption can only be achieved through better, more accountable and transparent cooperation between all services. i therefore support this report.
the european union is committed to the development of the union's energy sector, and the eu is committed to the development of the energy sector in the union. i would like to emphasise in particular those parts relating to negotiating chapters 23 and 24 to which montenegro should pay particular attention, and which relate to the establishment of the rule of law, the establishment of an effective and impartial judiciary, the fight against corruption, media freedom, the establishment of good public governance and transparency in the financing of political parties, and ensuring the prosecution of all war criminals and the provision of compensation to all victims of war. i am thinking here primarily of croatia. i also consider it important that the resolution also referred to the need to create an atmosphere of tolerance and inclusion of all national minorities, emphasising the need for the montenegrin authorities to protect the multi-national identity of boka kotorska and to strengthen cultural and economic cooperation with the neighbouring member states of the european union.
written. ‒ it is clear that montenegro is on the right track and this is reflected in this report. the country has made some progress in the fight against corruption, but it is necessary to ensure greater independence of the judiciary and to demonstrate the political will to systematically investigate, prosecute and punish corruption regardless of the political background and position of the perpetrators. the judiciary and the prosecution are most effective in fighting corruption when they are given maximum autonomy and independence from political structures. i speak from the perspective of croatia, which has shown in recent years that there are no untouchables before the judiciary. eu influence and pressure on this issue has been crucial. free and independent media also play a key role in the fight against corruption and in the democratization of society in general. finally, i call on the montenegrin government to do more in promoting minority rights.
written. ‒ i supported the 2014 progress report on montenegro, as the resolution includes the main assumptions for further negotiations, including the main problems that exist in montenegro in certain areas, which are important for eu accession. it is particularly important to me that the resolution stresses the issue of the future continuation of the process of montenegro's accession to the nato alliance with the aim of increasing security in the adriatic, where all other nato countries are already members. the resolution calls for an amicable solution to the border issues with the republic of croatia, and in the event of an impossibility to resolve the dispute, proposes the international court of justice in the hague. the resolution calls for the further development of negotiating structures, calls for the involvement of civil society in the reform process, but also highlights concerns about the divisions in society that have resulted in the boycott of parliamentary work by some opposition parties. it is important for montenegro to continue public sector reforms, to strengthen the capacity of the ombudsman's office with the aim of combating discrimination. despite all the problems with the functioning of the judiciary, progress in the development of the new 2014-2018 justice reform strategy is important. progress aimed at ensuring the independence and increasing the efficiency of the judiciary should be welcomed. the eu has also committed to supporting the development of the country's tourism sector.
written. ‒ i support the latest in a series of progress reports on montenegro by my colleague mr tannock which, together with the adopted amendments, correctly show the areas where montenegro has made progress, but also those areas where significant efforts are needed to improve. it is certainly commendable that montenegro is the country that has made the most progress in the euro integration process of all the candidates with already 16 negotiating chapters open, 2 of which have been temporarily closed. the adoption of the anti-corruption package adopted last year should also be commended and support for its adoption and full implementation, as corruption is one of the main problems facing montenegro. although attacks on the media and journalists continue, which is for every conviction, it is positive that their number has decreased and that all cases of attacks on the media in the past year have been prosecuted. i am also pleased that the report included a call on montenegro to find a solution as soon as possible to the outstanding bilateral issues with its neighbours, to pay compensation to the war victims who have been waiting for more than two decades and to approach constructively the remaining succession issues. i would like to express once again my support for the report by mr tannock and for montenegro's progress towards european integration.
written. ‒ montenegro started negotiations with the european union in 2012 and has a leading role in european integration in the western balkans region and i have supported the positive development of its stabilisation and association agreement. the assessment of progress in the negotiations is a strong incentive to make further efforts to address the remaining problems hampering its path to eu membership, namely the judiciary, corruption, human rights violations and media independence. montenegro should demonstrate strong initiative in pursuing common regional interests by actively involving in the development of the adriatic-ionian strategy. through the strategy, countries are working together to improve the region's tourism sectors, improve transport connectivity, create new jobs and raise standards in the region. montenegro should be actively involved in the development of regional energy policy and strongly encourage the interconnection of energy systems in the south-east europe area. good connectivity and the development of renewable energy sources are the foundation on which montenegro can successfully develop its economy and strengthen its energy security.
written. ‒ i support this report because it encourages the government to implement sustainable economic reforms, including legal provisions on mechanisms to protect market competition, foster competitiveness and overcome structural deficiencies, address the problems of the large informal sector, and improve the business environment in general. i believe that transparency in dealing with the totalitarian past, including the opening of the secret service archives, is a step forward towards democratization, accountability and institutional strength. it is also important for montenegro to resolve as soon as possible in the accession process the remaining bilateral issues with its neighbours in a constructive manner and in a good neighbourly spirit. i particularly welcome the call on the montenegrin authorities to protect national minorities, the multinational character of boka kotorska, and to encourage its cooperation with the republic of croatia and other eu member states.
written. ‒ i support the report and welcome the progress made in the pre-accession negotiations and support the efforts made in the area of the rule of law, media freedom and the fight against corruption as well as the commission's emphasis on public administration reform. i am particularly pleased that all the amendments of the croatian epp delegation have been included in the text of the resolution, either as compromise or autonomous. in order to preserve good neighbourly relations, we will continue to insist on the resolution of outstanding bilateral issues at an early stage of the accession negotiations, as stated, inter alia, in the resolution. i would like to stress in particular the call by the european parliament to montenegro to resolve border issues quickly and effectively, and here i would particularly point to the border in prelaska, and to preserve the multinational identity of boka kotorska. i am particularly pleased that the amendment relating to fair compensation to the detainees of the montenegrin concentration camps has been included in the resolution, and i therefore call on the authorities to implement the conclusions of the report and to adequately, promptly and fairly compensate the croatian detainees of the concentration camps in montenegro, as well as to implement the succession of the assets of the former yugoslav people's army. i must stress that it is worrying that no serious efforts have been made so far to punish war crimes, and it is therefore important that effective investigations be carried out without delay, while on the other hand montenegro can count on the support of the hr on the european path using its experience in negotiations.
madam president, i support this report because it sends two important political messages. the first is that macedonia is unfairly blocked from opening accession negotiations because of a bilateral dispute with greece. this is the ninth consecutive time that the european council has been invited to open negotiations and there is no indication that next year will be any different. the other thing is the backsliding of democracy, freedom of speech and media and political culture in macedonia. the accusations by a leading opposition politician that the prime minister and the government are illegally wiretapping large numbers of citizens are serious and ring alarm bells. if a small part of the accusation is accurate, it will give momentum to those who want to stop macedonia's european progress. a situation in which the prime minister, in a personal address on state television, announces the prosecution of opposition leaders is politically extremely dangerous and has no place in a democratic state. i call on the government of macedonia to allow an impartial and objective investigation into the allegations of wiretapping, and if they prove to be accurate, to accept political responsibility.
madam president, i welcome the solidarity we have shown towards macedonia and with this resolution we call on the european commission and the council to find a solution after 9 consecutive failures so that macedonia can formally open negotiations and the bilateral dispute can continue to be resolved in parallel with the macedonian alignment with european legislation. the bilateral name dispute with greece has kept macedonia waiting for 10 years for the opening of negotiations, which is discouraging for the macedonian people and puts into question the success of the current methodology of the negotiation process. the successful example of croatia in resolving bilateral problems within the negotiation process is an example of good practice that we should also use in the case of the republic of macedonia. i once again call on the european council and the commission to actively use the good examples from past negotiations and urgently find a way to open negotiations with macedonia, as macedonia deserves this given its high level of preparedness.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the 2014 progress report of the former yugoslav republic of macedonia, as i agree with the statement in the adopted resolution. i would particularly stress the need to establish the start of negotiations. i also believe that the name should not be an obstacle to the accession process and that negotiations can only improve the resolution of bilateral issues. bilateral issues must not be an obstacle to the european accession process. furthermore, i would like to highlight the problem of the polarizing climate in the country, the deteriorating relationship between the opposition and the ruling. i also condemn unlawful surveillance and call for an independent investigation to be conducted in accordance with the principles of impartiality, taking into account the fundamental principle of freedom of expression.
written. ‒ i support the report by mr weigl, his first, which has presented in a comprehensive and realistic way the situation in macedonia and all the problems they face. it is unacceptable that for the ninth time, calls for negotiations have been made without any result. the current situation of the blockade is damaging to macedonia, but it could have serious implications for the entire region. turkey and iceland are clear examples of how the european union project has lost momentum on the periphery. the european union must know what it wants with the western balkans area in its own backyard. this is particularly true of macedonia, which, along with bosnia and herzegovina, urgently needs a new approach. its citizens are pro-european oriented but macedonia must first sort out its own domestic affairs, such as the latest affair of wiretapping thousands of citizens, in order to give its friends in europe, among whom i am certainly, a more convincing argument that we can end the blockade that has lasted too long together.
written. ‒ i supported the resolution on the progress of macedonia, which has been a candidate country for eu membership for nine years, given the fact that it has made significant progress in aligning its legislation with the eu. it has demonstrated its readiness for the eu accession process by improving business conditions as a leader in the western balkans region, and progress has been made on the labour market, with the unemployment rate falling from 29 to 27,9%. the commission has also received comments from the applicant, the applicant's representative in the european parliament, the european economic and social committee and the committee of the regions. i believe that the name issue that greece opposes should not delay the opening of negotiations, on the contrary, neighbouring countries should not be a threat to each other, and there are much more important issues that should be given priority. despite the progress, social inequality and poverty rates have increased, while the lowest level of media freedom in the region was recorded, falling from 34th to 117th place. croatia gives full support to macedonia in european integration, with which it has maintained cooperation and good relations for years, and the country's prosperity and stability are not only in the interest of croatia but also in the interest of its neighbours and the whole of europe.
written. ‒ i support this report and welcome the fact that the country continues to make positive progress in improving the business environment and its move from 31st in 2013 to 30th in the world bank's ranking in 2014. however, it has often been found that contractual obligations are met with difficulty and that frequent legal changes without adequate consultation pose serious obstacles to the creation of a business environment. at the same time, i would stress the importance of making progress on labour law and strengthening social dialogue, and the need to further improve the business environment by supporting smes, reducing disparities between regions and linking research and development institutions with the business and employment sectors. i welcome the steady inflow of foreign direct investment, which has diversified exports. the commission notes that the union industry has been able to increase its sales volumes by more than 50% over the period considered. i stress the importance of attracting foreign investment and believe that the stalemate in the eu accession process could be an obstacle to deeper economic integration. i therefore welcome the opening of negotiations with macedonia as soon as possible.
written. concerns have been expressed regarding media freedom, freedom of expression and the independence of the judiciary where authorities are directed to strengthen the necessary reforms. the resolution expresses concern at the lack of political culture and constructive political dialogue due to the strong accusations between the government and the opposition. calls on the government and all political parties to work towards improving relations in order to maintain political stability, establish sustainable constructive political cooperation and accelerate the implementation of the european agenda; recalls that the foundations of democracy rest on compromise, stresses the need to improve the transparency of the accession process and participation in it, stresses that the issue of the post-election boycott should be resolved in a spirit of shared responsibility of the government and opposition to the smooth functioning of parliament, calls on the vice-president of the commission/high representative to work with all parties to improve the political dialogue; condemns also any form of unlawful surveillance and calls for publications and reports to be made, calls for an independent investigation into the surveillance carried out and all allegations thereof, respecting the principles of transparency, impartiality and the presumption of innocence, reiterates the importance of respecting the fundamental principle of freedom of expression and calls on all political actors to engage in constructive dialogue in order to maintain focus on the strategic priorities of the country and its citizens. that's why i'm supporting this report.
madam president, i supported the resolution on the 2014 progress report on serbia by rapporteur david mcallister, because its key message is that serbia needs help to implement reforms in order to continue on its european path. i believe that the european commission, which has a duty to protect the rule of law, should also play an important role in this. the rapporteur has taken account of most of the amendments which i and my colleagues from the croatian epp delegation have tabled, with particular reference to the status of the croatian national minority in vojvodina and the problem of missing persons. i am also pleased that our colleagues in the european parliament have begun to realize how problematic the law on the organization and competence of state bodies in the procedure for war crimes is, by which serbia abuses the principle of universal jurisdiction, as evidenced by the amendment of the author of the resolution itself, which was adopted today, and which has made this issue international. the european commission can no longer shove problems under the carpet in the case of serbia, but must start to solve them. therefore, i once again call on them to seriously study the contested law and to request serbia to repeal articles 2 and 3 of that law. it is also necessary to allow veljko marić's transfer to croatia and to allow him a fair trial.
written. ‒ i support the 2014 progress report of serbia as it realistically portrays the political and socio-economic processes in the process of accession to the european union. the accession negotiations were opened in early 2014. implementation of the stabilisation and association agreement has improved and a commitment to european integration is evident. it is important to create the conditions for the early opening of negotiating chapters 23 and 24, as well as serbia's engagement in building good neighbourly relations with kosovo, and cooperation in the fight against criminal groups. in view of the events of the 1990s, serbia should continue to cooperate with the international criminal court, strengthen cooperation with croatia and other countries to collect data on missing persons. the eu and the republic of moldova have agreed to continue to cooperate in the fight against terrorism and to strengthen their cooperation in the fight against organised crime. progress has been made in the judiciary through the implementation of the strategic and action plan on judicial reform 2013-2018. the important thing is that the resolution highlights the question of vojvodina. the resolution calls for the establishment of a law on the competence and financing of ap vojvodina. as a convinced regionalist and connoisseur of vojvodina, a participant and promoter of cooperation, and a bearer of the idea that multilingualism in vojvodina has been extended to citizens of croatian nationality, i expect that all aspects of modern european regionalism will be applied in the future.
written. ‒ i support this report by my colleague mcallister, his first on serbia's annual progress on its european path. serbia has a serious opportunity to correct and improve many areas of its internal political structure through an active policy in the framework of the eu accession negotiations, but much more than in previous periods to contribute to regional stability in the western balkans. the western balkans is today a region not without political, economic, social and security risks. as for the human rights complex, it will be best tested in serbia on the situation of minority communities. it is precisely progress in this area that will help to better understand serbia and its neighbours. any country with european ambitions today must not only adopt a common legal heritage but also respect the common foreign and security policy. that is why the earlier opening of negotiating chapter 31 would be the right message at a time when the european union's competitive influence is spreading through the balkans.
written. ‒ i supported the ep resolution on the progress report of serbia, which has shown its commitment and readiness for eu membership in the new stage of its journey towards the european union. serbia received €1.2 billion in eu support from 2007 to 2013 to strengthen its administrative capacity, but only 32% of citizens still have a positive attitude towards the eu. in addition to progress in public administration, judicial reforms and the fight against corruption, serbia should demonstrate a stronger commitment to regional cooperation by assuming the chairmanship of the osce. the duration of the negotiations will depend on the ability to resolve the most important chapters, concerning the rule of law, economic governance and active and constructive engagement on kosovo and the normalisation of their relations. serbia needs reforms to attract as many quality investments as possible, but the economic situation has been further complicated by last year's catastrophic floods, which caused significant damage. serbia has considerable economic potential in developing waste management, as well as in building and developing a green energy policy. particularly worrying is the overreliance on coal as the main source of energy in the energy structure. emphasis should be placed on the effective resolution of border disputes with neighbours and the implementation of all international treaties on minority rights. there are over 50 000 croats living in serbia whose cultural and minority rights need to be further supported and strengthened.
written. ‒ i supported the 2014 progress report of serbia by david mcallister, and i believe that serbia must continue to implement reforms on its path towards the european union. it is important that serbia appropriately adopts measures to combat corruption and organised crime, ensure the independence of the media, and promote and protect human and minority rights and fundamental freedoms. i call on serbia to align its foreign and security policy more decisively with eu policy, especially when it comes to russia. it is also very important that serbia enhances cooperation with neighbouring countries and makes progress in addressing the issue of missing persons. in order to ensure legal certainty for eu citizens, serbia must also harmonise its law on the organisation and competence of state authorities in war crimes proceedings.
written. i support this report and the process of european integration which is also in the interest of the republic of croatia, but with clearly defined criteria and eu treatment that will not differ from that which croatia had in the negotiations. only by speaking the truth, facing the past, and respecting our shared values can we contribute to better relationships. i would like to point out that the croatian epp delegation has tabled a number of amendments to the serbian progress report as those urging serbia to establish more effective cooperation in the provision of data for the purpose of rapidly finding missing persons from the homeland war. the text of the report also included a call on the serbian authorities to open the archives of the yna and to open and access the archives of the udba in order to establish the truth about the past and the tragic events. i expect that the serbian authorities, in accordance with the text of the report, will implement bilateral agreements that commit them to the representation of croats in the national assembly of serbia, given the poor status of national minorities in vojvodina, among which there are many croats. there are still many issues from the return of alienated cultural property through the controversial law on the universal jurisdiction of serbia to the border on the danube, so we will continue to articulate the key issues arising during the serbian aggression against croatia with the aim of establishing better neighborly relations and reconciliation. and the most important of these is the acceptance of amendments calling on serbia to review the law on jurisdiction for war crimes committed on the territory of the former yugoslavia.
written. ‒ serbia's progress towards eu accession is important for croatia, but also for other european countries. i have no doubt that the process of stabilising serbia has seen technical progress in many areas, but i must express regret at the lack of cooperation on many open bilateral issues as well as the unwillingness of the serbian government to implement bilateral agreements with neighbouring countries. i express my particular regret that the amendment was not adopted which annulled the serbian law of exclusive jurisdiction for which the croatian citizen veljko marić was unjustly imprisoned. the consistent implementation of the eu acquis must be a priority, but i believe that by adopting certain legal frameworks, the fundamental values of the union must be adopted and respected at the same time. the report also calls for the establishment of a european union-wide network of information and communication networks, and for the establishment of a european network of information and communication networks. i am particularly concerned about the lack of action to punish war crimes, to deal with the problem of missing persons and the lack of a desire to restore in a peaceful and civilised way the cultural heritage that was looted in the homeland war, because i believe that this is necessary for the further progress of serbia, which is why i voted against this report.
written. ‒ mr president, i support this declaration, as well as the process of further integration of kosovo with the fulfilment of all the obligations and responsibilities that it entails. the rule of law, the fight against terrorism, the independence and transparency of the media, the role of women in government, and the firm 'no' to discrimination against lgbt communities are just some of the tasks that those in charge must work even harder to implement in the reform of a country that has so far been recognised by 23 of the 28 eu member states.
written. ‒ i supported the report on kosovo's european integration process as i consider this issue important for stability in south-east europe and for making progress on a number of issues that are important for kosovo and thus for the wider region. in this regard, the fight against corruption and organised crime and kosovo's participation in the fight against terrorism are of paramount importance. the commission should also be able to provide information on the implementation of the union's macro-financial assistance to the countries of central and eastern europe, including the countries of the former soviet union, the former yugoslav republic of macedonia, the former yugoslav republic of macedonia and the former yugoslav republic of macedonia. there are concerns about the independence and effectiveness of the judiciary. the resolution highlights the problem of respecting monuments of serbian and orthodox heritage and the heritage of other nations. the commission notes that the commission has not provided any information on the amount of the aid granted to the beneficiaries. in this regard, it is important that the council takes the necessary decisions necessary for the use of the eu programme. i commend the proposal to extend the mandate of the eusr for kosovo beyond the end of the current mandate. the key to the continuation of kosovo's integration is also the continuation of the meetings between serbia and kosovo and the respect of the agreements reached between the two parties.
written. ‒ i supported the adoption of the resolution on the report on the process of european integration of kosovo, which was recognised by the republic of croatia in march 2008. i welcome the establishment of dialogue between the authorities of the republic of serbia and kosovo and any efforts to respect each other and to normalise relations, as confirmed by the first agreement on the principles governing the normalisation of relations, signed by prime ministers hashim thaçi and ivica dačić on 19 april 2013, and the action plan for its implementation of 22 may 2013. in this context, i also consider the report's call for the signing of a cooperation agreement between the serbian and kosovar authorities to contain and dismantle criminal networks that control, exploit and smuggle illegal migrants from kosovo via serbia to certain eu member states to be important. the resolution also identifies all critical areas where kosovo still needs to make efforts to advance democratic processes and continue to work on the stability of the country. in particular, i would highlight the efforts to combat corruption and organised crime at all levels, to establish a functioning judiciary and the rule of law, to adopt effective and comprehensive legislation and to establish an institutional framework for the media. kosovo should also make efforts related to economic progress, poverty eradication, and securing greater employment in the country.
written. ‒ as head of the european parliament's delegation for kosovo, i welcome the report by my colleague lunaček, who had to embrace the extraordinary dynamics of events in the youngest european country. particular attention in the european context has been drawn to the large number of 'asylum seekers' from kosovo, who are the result of backwardness but also of a feeling of lack of perspective on the part of a significant part of the population. it is also an opportunity for the new kosovo authorities, as well as the european institutions, to change the situation for the better as quickly as possible.
written. ‒ i support the report on the process of european integration in kosovo following the end of the six-month political blockade that followed the elections, followed by the constitution of the assembly and the appointment of the new government. the new government is emboldened to continue on its european path. the implementation of reforms is the most important task on that journey. the problems that arise in the judiciary, and especially in the fight against corruption and organised crime, must be at the top of the list of reforms. the approximation of legislation to the european acquis must guarantee the rule of law and the functioning of the rule of law. all allegations of organised crime must be investigated transparently and processed independently. ensuring the independence of the judiciary, increasing employment and preserving existing jobs will move kosovo towards a society of economically prosperous countries and will attract potential investors. the inability to find work is an urgent call for structural economic reforms to reduce the unemployment rate, which is the highest in europe. european kosovo is certainly a beacon of stability in southeastern europe. it is also important to mention the relations with neighboring serbia, which according to the latest indications are progressing. serbia and kosovo must continue to cooperate by respecting the agreements already reached and developing new ones through dialogue.
written. ‒ i supported the motion for a resolution on the process of european integration in kosovo, considering it an incentive to implement the reforms necessary to meet the obligations under the stabilisation and association agreement. although kosovo declared its independence from serbia in 2008, five member states have not recognised its statehood: greece, spain, slovakia, cyprus and romania. the kosovo government should make efforts to combat corruption and organised crime, and to establish the rule of law and the protection of minorities. the economic situation in the country creates a feeling of hopelessness and a strong depression in the population. the high unemployment rate is over 30 percent, of which more than 55 percent are young people. almost five percent of the population, or 90,000 people, have emigrated illegally to the european union and will be returned after the asylum period expires. their survival will depend entirely on a state that is not prepared to accept their return. the commission considers that the aid is compatible with the internal market. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's energy policy and its implementation in the light of the union's energy policy objectives. the absence of a telephone number, internet domains and participation in the insurance companies' green card system represent a heavy financial burden. it is necessary to address the imf and budget planning and guarantee the allocated funds.
written. ‒ i support the motion for a resolution on the process of european integration in kosovo. by ending the six-month political impasse and appointing a new government, kosovo can move decisively to implement the necessary reforms and continue its path towards europe. kosovo's progress is slow in certain areas, but the key is in the implementation of reforms themselves. the new government should focus on a number of priority issues, such as minority rights, strengthening and reaffirming the rule of law, media independence and public administration reform. of course, i urge the government of kosovo to send us a clear signal that kosovo is systematically fighting organized crime and corruption at all levels, because that is precisely the area where progress is expected.
written. i welcome the end of the six-month political deadlock that followed the elections and the convening of the assembly and the appointment of a new government. i urge the new government to devote itself to addressing priority issues, to measures to strengthen and confirm the rule of law, to establishing a model of the judiciary based on the principles of independence, expertise and efficiency, and to systematic and effective fight against corruption and organised crime at all levels. while political turmoil and street protests over poverty, unemployment, and corruption are raging in kosovo, every month some 20,000 people are reportedly leaving the country in search of a better life in a western member of the european union, and many are entering the european union illegally. that is why i call on the authorities of serbia and kosovo to conclude cooperation agreements to control and disrupt the criminal networks that control, exploit and smuggle migrants from kosovo through serbia to the eu. i also support kosovo's engagement in the fight against terrorism in view of the amendments to kosovo's criminal code to take strong measures against foreign fighters and the actions taken by the authorities to bring to justice persons involved in recruiting young people to join extremist groups.
written. ‒ i am pleased with kosovo's progress because every effort made to reform, regardless of the european integration process, results in a better state of society and a better quality of life for citizens. i believe that this is in the interest of the european union and the kosovo authorities and therefore i do not expect any turbulence in our relations. kosovo's progress towards eu membership will definitely mark relations with serbia. we are currently in the absurd situation of negotiating membership with a country which does not recognise its southern neighbour while at the same time promoting the european perspective of that neighbour which has not been recognised by all the member states. i consider that the insistence on recognition of kosovo by the member states that have not yet done so and by serbia is a matter of credibility and therefore i take this opportunity to call on all actors in this process to commit clearly and unequivocally to kosovo's statehood and european future.
madam president, the three pillars on which growth rests are structural reform, fiscal consolidation and investment. investing in education, research and development, fostering innovation, modernisation, a cheaper source of energy are important to achieve productivity and competitiveness. investments are falling because there's no confidence and no hope of recovery, no willingness to take risks, entrepreneurs are over-indebted, financial markets are fragmented. the investment gap can and must be bridged by targeted public investments and by opening up favourable sources of financing to entrepreneurs. this report shows that determined and courageous governments and countries can look to the future with optimism, and that is why i am pleased that the report has been supported by a large majority in parliament today.
written. ‒ the rapporteur stresses the importance of a strategic approach in planning european economic growth. the europe 2020 objectives must be at the heart of all documents and must be systematically worked on. many member states are losing their share of the global economy and these are problems that the union must address.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the european parliament's motion for a resolution on the european semester for economic policy coordination: annual growth survey 2015. the introduction of the european semester has improved the coordination of economic policies by analysing the plans of the member states for macroeconomic, budgetary and structural reforms, but i also support the proposal to simplify the european semester and to further strengthen and stimulate the european union's economy at the global level, making it more competitive. i agree that investment and the return to higher growth levels should be further stimulated by supporting the investment plan for europe and pursuing structural reforms in individual member states. the results of the european semester also require more serious fiscal consolidation and the reduction of internal imbalances within and coordination between member states in order to be effective.
written. ‒ i support this report, which stresses in particular the importance of the social dimension and job creation in the context of good economic governance and the implementation of the european semester. it is important to implement comprehensive and well-balanced economic policy measures that must be specifically designed for each member state, taking into account its specificities. somewhere, the reduction in wages will increase productivity, attract investors and thus lead to the creation of new jobs. somewhere the opposite will happen - the best, most capable and educated will leave the country and competitiveness will fall so that even investors will not be interested in investing and unemployment will rise. this report warns us how careful we must be in our economic policy decisions if we are to preserve the jobs and social security of our citizens.
‒ in 2011, there were as many as 24 countries undergoing the excessive deficit procedure. six years after the start of the 2008 financial crisis, the eurozone is still facing record unemployment rates of almost 12%. since the peak of the crisis, investment levels have decreased by eur 470 billion and the investment gap is estimated at between eur 230 and 370 billion compared to its long-term trends. the member states fully implemented only around 9% of the recommendations in 2013. all of this data suggests that the approach so far has not been adequate. the eu economy as a whole needs to further boost its competitiveness in the global economy, in particular by increasing competitiveness in product and service markets to improve efficiency through innovation. the investment plan for europe is an important instrument to increase private and public investment and aims to stimulate additional investment, develop new projects, attract investors and restore confidence. although the report was initially framed according to the current, conservative policy, much was changed through amendments during the negotiations. there is a toning down of the rhetoric regarding liberal and structural reforms and that is why i support the rapporteur.
written. ‒ by taking into account specific recommendations for member states, the european semester, with the support of the commission, which monitors and gives clear guidance to countries, allows countries to better coordinate their budgetary and economic plans. the 2015 annual growth survey points to the need to boost the three main pillars in order to achieve higher growth rates and strengthen the recovery. low confidence, high indebtedness and risk aversion of investors can be addressed by more targeted public investment from the european fund for strategic investments with the support of member states, which are invited to contribute additional funds from the eu budget. the investment boost, which is planned to mobilise eur 315 billion, will give a boost to smes as the engine of economic recovery. strengthening structural reforms and implementing responsible fiscal consolidation will lead to improvements in the labour market, pension and health systems, long-term deficit control and the removal of obstacles to the single market. this ultimately supports growth and strengthens the still sluggish recovery, underlining the importance of consistent implementation of all three measures. the commission's contribution to improving and aligning the legal structure with the eu framework, and to combating tax evasion and fraud, will make the system more transparent and simple. cooperation between the european parliament and national parliaments is crucial in drawing up national budgets to achieve stability and convergence. i therefore support the report by my colleague darius rosati.
written. ‒ in 2014, the economic recovery in the eu slowed considerably. six years after the start of the 2008 financial crisis, the euro area is still facing record unemployment rates of almost 12%. the weak growth was also reinforced by the trend of disinflation, and investment levels have decreased by eur 470 billion since the height of the crisis. the investment plan for europe is an important instrument to increase private and public investment, noting that it aims to stimulate additional investment, develop new projects, attract investors and restore confidence. i would particularly point out that one of the biggest obstacles to growth in the eu is the lack of access to finance, especially for smes, and the drawback is that smes still have difficulty in obtaining bank loans. i also believe that alternatives to bank financing are needed, in particular by improving the business environment for venture capital. i therefore support this report.
the commission's annual growth survey 2015 seeks to promote a return to higher growth and strengthen the recovery by supporting an approach based on three main pillars (strengthening investment, accelerating structural reforms and pursuing responsible, growth-friendly fiscal consolidation) as the right way to achieve these objectives. i would point out that the investment gap can be addressed by targeted public investment and greater investment in private companies and european companies. i call for reforms to enable a new entrepreneurial climate that encourages new businesses, new investment and innovation, whereby investment can be seen as a key factor in attracting financial capital to the european economy. i welcome the investment plan for europe, which is an important instrument for boosting private and public investment, as it aims to stimulate additional investment, develop new projects, attract investors and restore confidence. i believe that one of the biggest obstacles to growth in the eu is the lack of access to finance, especially for small and medium-sized enterprises. small and medium-sized enterprises continue to have difficulty in obtaining bank loans. i believe that alternatives to bank financing are needed, in particular improving the business environment for venture capital, promoting credit unions, but also generally creating the conditions for an efficient allocation of capital through the capital market. that's why i'm supporting this report.
written. ‒ i believe that we need to provide entrepreneurs with an enabling and relaxed business environment in order to find long-term solutions that will enable their stability and liquidity. i agree with the part of the report that acknowledges the large role of small and medium-sized enterprises in achieving economic growth. but certain sections represent provisions that i cannot support. the report reiterates the importance of ensuring worker mobility, stressing that greater mobility can help reduce high levels of unfilled jobs. so again, i am concerned that this policy does not take into account the impact that the emigration of a workforce, primarily young people, can have on the economic and demographic picture of a country. we have stressed on countless occasions the importance of restructuring economies in order to achieve the revitalisation of the union's single market. but i believe that such measures are detrimental to those efforts. as a representative of a country where the trend of youth emigration is increasing day by day, i believe that only by creating measures to create more dynamic employment and retain a young and educated population can we prevent negative effects on economic growth and ultimately contribute to a better quality of life. that's why i voted against it.
written. ‒ the latest figures recorded, for 2013, show long-term unemployment at a historically high level of 5.1% of the labour force in the eu-28. i support the commission's integrated approach to growth, based on three main pillars: the investment plan for europe, structural reforms and fiscal responsibility. the report calls for ambitious economic policies to grow, create quality jobs and fight deflation.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the european parliament resolution on the european semester for economic policy coordination: employment and social policy aspects in the 2015 annual growth survey, bearing in mind the great need to boost employment and improve social policies. i support the european commission's integrated approach to growth, which includes an investment plan for europe, structural reforms and fiscal reforms. the current downward trend in investment needs to be reversed by common incentives for a sustainable and competitive economy, which implies accompanying measures such as the elimination of unnecessary administration and red tape. cohesion policy instruments play a key role in reducing inequalities within certain european regions in terms of job creation. in this context, i agree with parliament's proposal that additional incentives are needed to create new jobs for the long-term unemployed, which also include reducing the youth unemployment rate. global socioeconomic challenges will be a major factor in achieving more effective social policies aimed at ensuring sustainable growth and competitiveness of the european economy.
written. ‒ in october 2014, the imf estimated that the probability of a recession in the euro area had increased and would be between 35% and 40% by the end of the year. the unemployment rate remains at historically high levels with almost 25 million people out of work in the eu. long-term unemployment is at alarmingly high levels, with 12 million people out of work for more than a year (4% more than last year). the commission notes that the union's macro-financial assistance is limited to the minimum necessary to address the specific needs of the member states and the union's macro-financial assistance to the countries of central and eastern europe. 75% of the longterm unemployed in the eu are under 35. the socioeconomic imbalances between member states have further increased. the unemployment gap between the core and the periphery increased from 3,5% in 2000 to 10% in 2013. labour market reforms in a number of member states have failed to reduce precarious employment, with temporary jobs accounting for 50% of open jobs in 2014. all these data suggest that the economic and monetary policies of the past have not been adequate, especially when analysing their impact on social and employment policies, where europe needs structural reforms to prevent our most educated generation from becoming a lost generation.
written. ‒ citizens need to be ensured a dignified life from their work. almost 25 million people in the european union are currently unemployed, while 12 million people have been unemployed for more than a year. the most vulnerable group in the european labour market are young people, whose unemployment rate is 21.2%. croatia, with more than 300,000 unemployed, almost half of them young, ranks high on the list, after spain and greece. every year, 12,000 people leave croatia because of the lack of creative solutions and public policies that will keep them and ensure their dignified and secure existence. green local businesses are the best tool to counter this negative trend. the implementation of the circular economy principle in public policy-making would create a whole range of new jobs and ensure sustainable growth for croatia and the european union. the commission shall be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 264 concerning the establishment of a european works council, the establishment of a european works council and the establishment of a european works council. as part of the integrated approach of the european semester, member states should implement structural reforms and promote financial support programmes for young people and enterprises, such as horizon 2020 or cosme, whose potential should be harnessed to create a stronger entrepreneurial culture in the european union.
written. ‒ the annual growth survey gives us an insight into the economic and social situation in europe and sets out the eu's policy and action priorities for the whole of the year ahead. although we have achieved some improvements in the economic and social situation in recent years by various measures, the unemployment rate remains at historically high levels, especially for young people. poverty and social exclusion are also high. i supported the report on the european semester for economic policy coordination by rapporteur prieto because i believe that the time has come for responsible economic policies to grow, create quality jobs and fight deflation. it is also a time for reforms aimed at increasing growth potential, human capital and productivity. the eu must continue to improve its economic and social policies in order to achieve the europe 2020 objectives as soon as possible.
written. europe must be committed to a social market economy model that guarantees sustainable growth in order to secure jobs for the next generation instead of debt. i welcome the commission's integrated approach to growth, based on three main pillars: the investment plan for europe, structural reforms and fiscal responsibility. we call for ambitious, expansionary economic and fiscal policies, within the existing rules of the stability and growth pact, to foster smart, sustainable and inclusive growth and the creation of quality jobs. that's why i endorsed this report.
written. ‒ the report highlights the importance of the digital marketplace for boosting growth, creating quality jobs, maintaining the competitiveness of the european economy in the world market and providing benefits to businesses and consumers. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the new rules and will continue to monitor the implementation of the new rules and will continue to monitor the implementation of the new rules. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' to cover all the activities of the european union.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the european parliament's motion for a resolution on the governance of the single market in the european semester 2015 because the single market is one of the european union's greatest achievements, making it a world economic power. however, the european single market has not reached its ultimate level of efficiency and therefore requires sound public finances, targeted investment and structural reforms. the commission shall be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 264 concerning the establishment of a european data protection supervisor. better governance of the single market is also needed to stimulate growth and establish effective control mechanisms, and to strengthen coordination of economic and employment policies.
written. ‒ one of the important structural reforms at eu level is the strengthening of the single market, from the building of the banking union to the digital and energy single market. the european commission, when presenting the new investment plan, stressed that the key elements, in addition to the establishment of the new fund itself as a source of funding, were the establishment of a list of projects and structural reform. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's macro-financial assistance to the countries of central and eastern europe, including the countries of the former soviet union, and will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's macro-financial assistance to the countries of central and eastern europe. the reforms that need to be done at eu level are to work on further strengthening the single market and facilitating business conditions and reducing fragmentation. the good governance of the single market and its functioning in practice is crucial for the development of the european union and i voted today in favour of this report, which emphasises this in particular.
written. ‒ i support the report by mrs gáll-pelcz because after more than 20 years since it was formally created, the single market is still not fully completed. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the digital single market and its impact on the economy, in particular by ensuring that the digital single market is fully operational and that the digital single market is fully integrated into the internal market. in particular, it is important to remove unjustified restrictions and barriers to entry in key sectors such as retail, e-commerce and business services. europe needs a holistic single market strategy that takes into account the concerns of citizens, consumers and smes and projects single market priorities across all policy areas. in the context of the europe 2020 mid-term review, the single market and the digital single market should be seen as key instruments for re-launching economic growth and creating quality jobs in the eu, while ensuring complementarity with more traditional growth drivers such as stimulating investment in research, development and innovation, training and education, in particular taking into account the needs of small and medium-sized enterprises.
written. ‒ i support the report by mrs gall-pelcz on the governance of the single market in the context of the european semester 2015. i believe that strengthening the governance of the single market in the context of the european semester will serve as a catalyst for economic recovery and faster growth. the practicality and economic functionality of the whole system will be ensured by the consistent implementation and application of the rules governing the single market, which take into account the priorities of the market, the concerns of citizens and of small and medium-sized enterprises. the involvement of the commission in the definition of policy priorities, the introduction of a methodology of quantitative targets and the presentation of annual reports will contribute to a more transparent reflection of the state of integration of the single market and the realisation of the full growth potential of the market. achieving the objectives of the single market gives the eu's 500 million people the opportunity to become a global player. the commission should also be able to take into account the impact of the digital single market on the development of the union's digital single market.
‒ europe 2020 in the middle of the implementation period the single market and the digital single market should be seen as important instruments to restart economic growth and create quality jobs in the eu, while ensuring complementarity with more traditional growth drivers such as stimulating investment in research, development and innovation, training and education, especially taking into account the needs of smes. i therefore call for the development of analytical tools to measure the economic and regulatory performance of the single market within the single market pillar of the european semester in order to improve the governance of the single market. i would stress the importance and added value of the single market integration reports of previous years in terms of their contribution to the overall priorities identified in the commission's annual growth survey and the establishment of recommendations for individual member states in the context of the european semester, and for all of the above i support the report.
written. it is necessary to strengthen the management of the single market within the european semester as a horizontal priority of the different union policies, maintaining the necessary balance between the economic, social and environmental dimensions, and to improve the quality of transposition into national legislation, implementation and application of the rules governing the single market in order to make it practical and economically functional. the commission should also be able to use the information provided by the member states to assess the impact of the proposed measures on the internal market. that's why i endorsed this report.
written. ‒ reports of child sexual abuse on the internet show alarming trends. the demand for child sexual abuse content on the internet is increasing, the violence in such content is increasing, and the age of the victims is decreasing. according to europol, 10% of the victims are under two years old. the development and availability of technology creates a vast space for manipulation. police have a hard time tracking down the perpetrators, and the objectionable content remains online, presenting a permanent trauma for the victims. it is estimated that each year, about 50,000 controversial photos are uploaded. i believe that joint action at transnational level is a necessary precondition for successfully countering these trends. parliament must create the most effective legislative framework for police and judicial action to combat this frightening problem as quickly as possible.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution on combating child sexual abuse online, given that new modern technological possibilities also create new security threats. the internet and other new technology opportunities are particularly dangerous because legal regulation and practice are not fast enough and their solutions are generally lagging behind potential threats. in this sense, but also because of the obvious existence of child abuse which is not new today, and which is only given new possibilities and different forms of manifestation by new technologies, i strongly support this resolution and the continuation of the fight against what is probably the worst form of abuse.
written. ‒ protecting children and ensuring a safe environment for their development is one of the primary objectives of the european union and its member states. we need to guarantee children's rights and protection online and take measures to ensure that illegal content is promptly removed and reported to law enforcement authorities. it is necessary to provide for sufficient legal instruments for the investigation and prosecution of offenders and to strengthen cooperation between law enforcement authorities. i believe that children's personal data online must be properly protected and that children should be informed in a simple and understandable way about the risks and consequences of using their personal data online. parents who are responsible for raising their children need to be educated first in how to monitor their children's communication, and this is achieved primarily by developing mutual trust. parents' insight into what their children are doing and with whom they are communicating can go a long way toward reducing the incidence of online child molestation and timely detection of perpetrators who need to be punished most severely.
written. ‒ there is a growing demand for online content depicting child sexual abuse, more violence in such content, and the age of the victims is getting younger. according to europol, 10% of the victims are under two years old. research shows that at eu level, children on average start using the internet at the age of seven. the average time spent online by children between the ages of 9 and 16 is about an hour and a half a day, but as technology becomes more accessible and more sophisticated, there is more and more manipulation of children. due to its international nature child exploitation and sexual exploitation of children online is present in hundreds of countries and involves hundreds of judicial authorities this problem clearly requires a solution at international level. the measures taken by member states to prevent illegal content on the internet are not sufficiently effective. the commission should also be able to provide information on the impact of the digital revolution on the digital environment, including on the impact of the digital revolution on the digital economy, and on the impact of the digital revolution on the digital economy.
written. ‒ we are all aware of the seriousness and difficulty of the problem of child sexual abuse. the eu must therefore take further steps to combat and prevent these monstrous crimes. the sexual exploitation of children directive is the most important document, as it includes a large number of tools to improve the efficiency of member states and facilitates international cooperation in combating this type of crime. these crimes are happening in real life, but in large part today, because of the growth of the internet and social networks, and it should be given special attention because it is a "new type of violence". by establishing the internal security fund, the commission will support the establishment of a public-private partnership between key private sector actors and the law enforcement agency. by merging these two parties, the commission will continue to co-finance the european broadband network of safe internet centres, whose key role is to raise awareness of online safety issues for children across the eu. safer internet centres are tasked with teaching both children and parents about the proper use of the internet. by supporting law enforcement to identify victims and perpetrators more effectively, and by co-financing the development of common databases, which are currently hosted by interpol, the legal basis is provided for better access to data and evidence available worldwide. therefore, i support the motion for a resolution on the sexual abuse of children on the internet.
written. ‒ i am a strong advocate of combating child sexual abuse online and believe that tackling the alarming rise in violence against children should be a priority of our action. as technology advances, the rate of abuse increases. the commission should also be able to assess the impact of the proposed measures on the environment and the environment protection of natural resources. according to a recent survey, as many as 93 percent of minors in croatia have a social networking profile, and one in five minors spends more than three hours a day on the site. a survey of a large number of children active on social networks in croatia showed that most of them have between 300 and 500 friends on their profile, and in the event that a stranger invites them to meet, as many as 18 percent of children say that they might agree to meet, while 8 percent have already found themselves in such a situation and went to the meeting adding to the problem is the very nature of the children, who are often ashamed or afraid to report abuse. in view of the above, i believe that the european union must take strong action to tackle child sexual abuse online and i support and welcome the establishment of various mechanisms to achieve this objective.
written. ‒ children are the most vulnerable group in our society and need special attention to protect them. the sexual abuse and exploitation of children online constitute serious violations of fundamental rights and remain a leading problem for law enforcement authorities. the internet, information and communication technology are part of the daily lives of children in the eu, and for all the benefits they bring, children are increasingly exposed to risky situations and to perpetrators of online crimes. i supported this resolution in order to protect children's personal data on the internet in an appropriate way, to provide all the necessary information to children and parents and to improve international cooperation between member states in combating the sexual abuse and exploitation of children. the partnership approach and the exchange of information between member states and the raising of public awareness of this problem contribute to creating a safe environment for children, which is one of the primary roles of the european union.
written. the number of children receiving unwanted sexual requests and advances online is increasing at an alarming rate, and so are the alarming trends in child abuse. it is time to condemn the sexual abuse and exploitation of children because we are witnessing the times and the speed with which these things are happening. particular attention and protection is needed in developing countries, where the internet is still less widely used than in western countries. the commission has also been asked to provide information on the implementation of the new law on the protection of personal data. it is important for us to protect children online and to implement active prevention, and to provide victims with a reliable legislative framework to find, identify and punish perpetrators. children are our future, vulnerable and dependent on us and we must have the full responsibility to protect them and therefore by voting for this initiative i join.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution on combating sexual abuse of children online because i consider it extremely dangerous to increase the trends of this scourge, but also its manifestation through other telecommunications and information technologies that are increasingly developed and available. child molesters are gaining momentum as the internet becomes more than an attractive place for those who commit these monstrous crimes. the commission should also be able to provide information on the use of the term 'child sexual abuse' in the context of the 'child sexual abuse' and 'child sexual exploitation' programmes. i agree that it is essential to enable coordinated exchange of information and to strengthen cooperation between states and national legislatures on the one hand and europol on the other, but it is equally important to put internet service providers under stronger supervision in order to enable all public authorities to act lawfully and effectively.
vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy.– mr president, i would like to thank this chamber for the chance to discuss here today something that is extremely serious. i believe, as do you, that we all shared a sense of not only sadness, but also indignation, when we learned on the evening of 27 february of the murder of boris nemtsov in moscow. he was killed just two days before leading a demonstration against the war in ukraine and the effects of the economic crisis in russia. on sunday last week, tens of thousands of citizens in moscow, but also in other cities, turned these marches into a tribute to a man who served his country as a deputy prime minister in the 1990s and who since then had relentlessly tried to bring his country forward. all 28 european union ambassadors, together with our european union head of delegation, were united in attending his funeral on tuesday, joining an impressive crowd. let me share here the words expressed by president schulz on russia’s refusal to let one of you, ms kalniete, into russia to attend his funeral. the same also happened to other representatives of european union member states. this goes against the spirit of our visa facilitation agreement and follows similar incidents that have happened already. i remember when ms harms and mr landsbergis received a similar refusal to enter the country. they joined the words of the president of the european parliament in saying that this is simply not acceptable. we shall remember boris as a strong advocate for a modern, democratic and open russia – a russia open to the world. he defended values which we all share: respect for human dignity; commitments to democracy and to accountability; belief in civil society as a force. he was opposed to war in ukraine, and he was gathering evidence on the involvement of russian troops. yesterday, here in strasbourg in this parliament, i met with mikhail kasyanov, who shared his political commitment. for me, it was a way to honour his memory and to express, once again, our sadness at the loss that his family, friends and his colleagues have suffered, and for the gap he leaves in political life in russia. but it also gave me a chance to discuss the state of democracy in russia. russian citizens deserve no less than a democratic and open russia. strengthening political freedoms and supporting the consolidation of democracy are, moreover, objectives set out in the first article of the partnership and cooperation agreement between the european union and russia. we support russian organisations who are working on improving the legal framework in russia. in our human rights consultations, we have called on russia – time and again – to establish a level playing field for political parties by allowing opposition parties to play a role and by ensuring diversity of the media. looking at the state of democracy in russia today, we see that freedom of expression is under increased pressure. opposition parties struggle to exist and to have access to mainstream media. some have been repeatedly denied registration. the last duma elections in 2011 were described as ‘slanted in favour of the ruling party’ by osce/odihr. remember that the russian population opposed those practices by taking to the streets, leading to the well—known bolotnaya square trials. individual leaders who emerged from those events are constantly harassed, while others left russia out of fear for their freedom or for their lives. this recent assassination brings back to our minds the memories of many others: natalia estemirova, anna politkovskaya, stanislav markelov, anastasia baburova, sergei magnitsky and alexander litvinenko. journalists, lawyers, intelligence officers, human rights defenders – they had little in common until they became victims of those who portray so—called ‘enemies of the state’ as legitimate targets. we all know that the conflict in ukraine has intensified the public discourse against the too—famous fifth column. let us not forget those who face trial in russia through unfair procedures because of the ukrainian conflict, such as nadia savchenko and oleg sentsov, who was arrested in crimea. the russian authorities have not only the duty to conduct a full and transparent investigation into the murder of boris nemtsov, but they also have to put an end to the climate of suspicion, hatred and intolerance for diversity of opinion. the defence of basic freedoms, including the freedom of expression, is – i would like to remind you in this room – a statutory obligation for all members of the united nations.
the question he raised by raising his blue card. mr salvini spoke about the state of democracy in europe and russia. i'd like to ask him one simple question. does he think russia is a more democratic country than italy? i await your answer.
on behalf of the ppe group.– madam president, i would like to thank the high representative for her exposé, which was always succinct and to the point. high representative, to paraphrase henry kissinger, if there was a question about who one should call in europe on a general level, we have solved it with your function. i think we always knew that for foreign policy in the european parliament we should ring elmar brok, who has been a long-standing chairman of the committee on foreign affairs (afet) and a guarantor of continuity in our strategic foreign policy thinking. therefore, i thank him for a very good report which suggests the main aspects we should work towards – namely the credibility of our international action, the comprehensive character of using all aspects of our work, including political, security, defence, economic, trade, development, humanitarian leverage, and especially trying to have the flexibility on a budgetary level to use the global actor role for the european union that we are all working for. i very much welcome the fact that you are going in the direction of a strategic review because doing this in an open manner will be your legacy as the high representative in looking at how the eu should function on the foreign, security and defence policy in the years to come. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8))
blue-card answer. – mr szanyi, i think that the message of european solidarity and unity in terms of foreign policy credibility is essential. therefore, i regard the work that ms mogherini is doing with a cluster of foreign—policy—oriented commissioners as a first step, and the close dialogue that she has with the foreign ministers, with us in parliament’s committee on foreign affairs, and also with all the delegations involved in foreign policy, is an important signal – and an incentive – indicating that all the member states should be fully aligned with the main strategic tracks of our foreign policy.
on behalf of the alde club. madam president, madam high representative, ladies and gentlemen, first of all i would like to thank mr brock for the excellent report and the good cooperation between the political groups in its preparation. the european union's common foreign and security policy is 15 years old and this may in itself be reason enough to launch strategic reflections on that policy. however, there are two very compelling reasons for this. the first is the difficulties facing the european union in implementing its foreign and security policy, which is very clearly indicated in this report, which of course in many respects destroys the credibility of the european union and the achievement of those objectives which it could achieve. the most important difficulty mentioned in this report, which i repeat here and welcome as being mentioned because it is important to face the problem in order to solve it, is the lack of uniformity and coordination of certain policies of the european union, in particular the external and internal policies of the european union and the policies of the european union and its member states. the second, equally important reason for the new strategic rethinking of the european union's foreign and security policy is the deterioration in the european union's environment, which, as the report says, is unprecedented since the very beginning of european integration. the european union is therefore unable to achieve its objectives and to have the impact on peace and stability in the world, and especially in its immediate neighbourhood, that its strength allows. i therefore invite the high representative, together with the council, the commission and the european parliament, to start thinking about a new strategic foreign and security policy for the european union.
madam president, i am extremely pleased that you mentioned, esteemed high commissioner, the speech of his excellency king abdullah ii of jordan here in parliament. i am extremely pleased to hear this from many of my colleagues and colleagues because i want to emphasise that europe needs such allies. europe with its policy of such an alliance of building bridges can remain a leader in creating a democratic atmosphere in our closest countries, can help those closest countries, many of which are in great disaster situations and that is why i support the policy you are pursuing because i am convinced that only such an open policy of building bridges, but also of raising awareness of the problems that exist in individual countries can be a successful policy. i believe that in this mandate you will do so and that you will not forget the balkans, regardless of my dear friend from greece, i believe that the balkans need no more unrest and i expect you to support peace in that area as well.
following the outbreak of conflict in ukraine, the security environment in the european union has deteriorated significantly, while relations between brussels and moscow are at their lowest level since the end of the cold war. following the terrorist attacks in paris on the editorial staff of the satirical magazine charlie hebdo, security is high on the eu agenda, as we have a duty to ensure a high level of security for citizens within an area of freedom, security and justice, and to achieve this, appropriate reforms are needed. i think it is high time for europe to unite again, but this time on the basis of better cooperation between national authorities, intelligence services, here i am thinking of the air passenger information directive which will allow for the seamless exchange of private data on passengers on aircraft that land or take off anywhere in the eu. the union's foreign and security policy should, above all, be aimed at safeguarding the fundamental european values and interests with a view to strengthening the political and legal order, thus contributing to the maintenance of peace and stability and the security of citizens. the union must be ready at all times to respond effectively to threats such as terrorism and trafficking in arms, drugs and people, and this requires improving certain internal structures, but also creating partnerships with so-called third countries.
mr president, i support this report in the majority, but as a representative from croatia i feel obliged to respond to paragraph 165 of the report in which the rapporteur expresses regret over the outcome of the croatian referendum on the definition of marriage in december 2013. i think there is no reason to regret, because the constitutional definition of marriage in croatia has not in any way harmed the rights of the lgbt community. that's right. it served as a catalyst for the passage of the same-sex life partnership law in july 2014 that placed the same-sex community within the law as befits a society that cares for all its members. the desire of the vast majority of croatian citizens to keep marriage as a union between one man and one woman is not an expression of homophobia or discrimination as point 165 of the report imputes. it is a call to protect the traditional values that have kept our society homogeneous despite the frequent historical disasters that have affected croatia.
mr president, the annual human rights report is an important instrument for guiding the european union's foreign policy and development cooperation policy. this report must focus on the human rights situation outside the eu and therefore i hope that the sentences on the member states will eventually be deleted from the resolution, because they have no place here. we also need to follow more systematically the european union charter of fundamental rights, which puts the right to life at the forefront of human rights promotion. this question is often put in the context of ideological struggles or worldviews. but the fact is that 21st-century science proves that human life begins long before birth, at conception. we have left the regulation of human life and reproductive health to the member states, in accordance with the principle of subsidiarity. the same principle should apply in relations with non-eu countries we must not impose on other peoples solutions that are rightly rejected by non-european peoples in general as an ideology of waste and disregard for the fundamental right to life. human rights are universal, but only when it is really just about the right of a human being to live in dignity from conception to death - everything else would be an expression of ideological arrogance.
madam president, madam high representative mogherini, dear colleague panzeri, i am pleased that we have on the agenda today the report on the state of human rights and democracy in the world for 2013, and i think that this debate shows that the final version of your report, which will be adopted tomorrow, will apply to those countries that should, namely those countries that are not yet members of the european union, and therefore it is good that paragraphs 165 and 162, which i consider to be controversial, are not finally adopted as currently in the draft and on which we are all working together, and i say this especially as i come from croatia. what i think is important is that this debate and this report are in the spirit of our discussion on the previous item on the agenda, on the external policy of the european union, where we stressed that european values are crucial in promoting our objectives and our values, and that is human rights, number one, and therefore i particularly welcome that my colleague panzeri, as chairman of the conference of all the heads of delegation, has pointed out that the issue of human rights must be a priority in the guidelines for the conduct of our activities and delegations.
written. this report goes beyond the framework of the report on the state of human rights in the world in some areas and interferes with the internal affairs of member states which, under the principle of subsidiarity, have the competence to decide on matters of marriage and the family. in paragraph 165, you inadmissively call on croatia to hold a referendum on the constitutional protection of marriage in 2013 and you put my country in an inappropriate context. i ask you to delete this from your report because you are calling on croatia as an eu member to hold a referendum on issues of importance to croatian citizens. i believe that with this report you are doing an injustice to croatia and do not recognize the initiative of croatian citizens to actively participate in the political processes of their country and influence the decisions that are important to them. i would add that the report also deals with the internal affairs of two other member states, slovakia and lithuania, in the same paragraph, and that in several other paragraphs such as paragraphs 135, 136 and 164 you mention family, health and reproductive policy issues such as abortion and same-sex marriage, which are also the full responsibility of the member states, and i therefore ask that this be removed from the report.
madam president, for almost a decade now, the central mediterranean has been one of the main routes of illegal immigration into the european union, and every year we see that number rising by 2015. it is also predicted that perhaps as many as half a million refugees will arrive, mainly from libya. unfortunately, many of them could lose their lives as we have seen it happen. the funding for sea rescue operations is limited. frontex announced that it would not have enough financial and human capacity to deal with the situation. so we really need to focus on this problem and especially on the source of the problem. libya is torn today between two centers, tripoli and tobruk, and with isil threatening to use the country as a staging ground for attacks on europe. therefore, we need a political solution and the eu to become more involved and support the un-led dialogue. in this sense, i welcome the priorities that the high representative has presented here, but we also need to think now about a more long-term development solution that can only ensure long-term peace because poverty is a breeding ground for radicalism. and through development aid programs, we have to ensure institution building in libya. that's the key. unfortunately, the opportunity to do so was missed right after gaddafi was ousted from power. but now we must not shirk our responsibility for the security of europe.
madam president, madam commissioner, i am not a man who is apocalyptic and pessimistic. i'm a very optimistic person by nature. but in this particular case, it's like time is running out. i'm afraid that these three years, when we all hoped, after what happened three years ago and the revolution, that the libyan people would take their rich country into their own hands and create a prosperous country. today it is all, clearly, missed. therefore, i especially support your ambition to create a government of national unity because it is clearly the only solution to be able to fight these criminals who rob and kill people, innocent people and innocent victims and create great problems in all the countries in which they operate. i particularly underline your ambition to talk to local and regional authorities. i have some experience in this area and i think it's a good part of your strategy as well.
vpc/hr. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to reply in italian. i have to say i agree with what one of you said: to use the term "unstable situation" for libya is an understatement. just as it is an understatement to refer to a failed state: we are simply not dealing with a state. and that's the main problem we have to deal with. in addition, there is the knot of the complexity of the problems that are intertwined on the libyan scene, there are really, probably, as many of you have said and as i myself said in the opening, one of the most potentially dangerous and dramatic crises that we have around us. there are different problems and levels of problems and complexity that intertwine: on the one hand, those relating to security, not only of the libyan territory, where we see not only a greater presence of terrorist organisations and groups, but also a real use of daesh's franchise on previously existing organisations or groups or militias, but also a link with other crises, those in the south, for example with boko haram, which was mentioned, but also with the crisis in syria and iraq and the return or arrival on libyan territory of foreign fighters from other conflict scenarios, with potentially devastating consequences for the neighbouring countries: we think of tunisia, one of the countries which we rightly call a success story of democratic transitions in the region, which is facing terrifying pressure at its borders, both in terms of security and immigration. so problems in terms of security, in terms of immigration and human trafficking, in terms of control of both the energy and financial resources of a country - i repeat - potentially rich, which would not need, as it did not need in the past, to rely on international support, but clearly in these conditions the population is extremely suffering from a very dramatic humanitarian situation - and also on this the european union is doing a lot and is ready to do more - and the further level of consequences for the neighbouring countries, starting with tunisia, but also egypt, algeria and the european union itself, as well as the countries bordering to the south - we think of the whole sub-saharan area - not only in terms of consequences and security but also in terms of political dynamics in the region, because we know very well one of the main problems with which we have to deal is not only the total division or collapse of the region, but also the risk of war, so to speak, on one side of the country, not only on the other, for the sake of libya, but also for the potential of war in the region. so it is very clear to all libyans - and i hope it is clear to all of us - that there is no military option that can stand up to what is happening in libya, and anyone who might be tempted by the "there is a crisis, let's intervene" approach would not be able to deal with the complexity that i just mentioned, with a very large territory and a very complex social structure, as well as the absence of state structures. a problem this complex cannot be answered with the illusion of magical answers: there is no magic wand for this crisis, as there is unfortunately for many crises, but for this one even less than others: there is no military option. the libyans know this very well and i think we should know this very well. this does not mean that the european union is not interested or that it does not have the main responsibility to prepare the concrete actions that have been asked of me. i hope my words can be read back to you but obviously you didn 't hear what i said in the beginning: the european union is taking concrete action, and i must say that we are among the main supporters, not just supporters but also builders of the concrete actions that are on the ground today for libya: take dialogue, for example. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we must insist on the need to move forward. the dialogue in tripoli, the dialogue in morocco, the dialogue between tobruk and tripoli and misrata. i can confirm to mr bonanno that i was in tripoli exactly four months ago and that i met some of the tobruk parliamentarians in tripoli who were engaged in the dialogue, as were women parliamentarians on the other side: it's a dimension that someone has asked to be strengthened that i think is useful. on the other hand, it was the women of misrata who encouraged their men to sit at the table of dialogue, because they are tired of a conflict that is depriving them of resources and human lives. dialogue with the libyans, therefore, dialogue with the un two or three days ago with ban ki-moon we talked about the situation in libya dialogue with the arab league and regional actors: i remember we spoke to the league secretary general last time this morning and we will speak to the egyptian foreign minister as soon as we finish this long plenary session. but building european action also means working on options that can be ready at the right time, the right actions to be taken at the right time. the timing of this crisis can be fatal, as i believe has been demonstrated in the past months and years in a very clear way. this means, for example, preparing not only for border control but also for the rational and human rights-respecting management of migration flows and asylum seekers, together with the unhcr; it also means starting to prepare measures to protect the country's basic infrastructure, starting with the buildings of a future government but also the communication and road infrastructure linking airports; the european union must also be able to take action to ensure that the ceasefire is observed when it is in force. the libyans know very well that the european union is working constantly in these days and weeks, not only on the dialogue channel, but also on the concrete instruments that we will put at the disposal of a future government of national unity to ensure that that government of national unity - and not external military intervention - has the instruments to face the security challenges, the reconstruction of the country and the management of the migratory flows that libya will have to face. the other challenge, as some have mentioned, is not only to make these options concrete, not only to make them ready for use at the right time but also to make them in the unity among our 28 member states that any decision to this effect requires and will require. so clearly it is not an easy process but i believe that the gravity and the drama of the situation puts us - and all our 28 member states - in front of a responsibility and an urgency from which we can hardly escape. this means being ready, all together, at 28, to take these decisions if and when they are needed, and also to develop, all together, at 28, greater solidarity in welcoming. this is one of the issues that we have begun to deal with, as i said, with the commission, which the home ministers are dealing with in these hours in the council and which the foreign ministers will deal with on the issues within their competence next monday. i was asked what we are doing concretely about the khartoum trial: the khartoum process was launched just at the end of november by the italian presidency in rome - i was present at that meeting - and it is a process that can give us many tools: i would like to say that the commission is very pleased that the european parliament has been able to take part in the debate on the report, and that it is very pleased that the commission has been able to take part in the debate on the report. i think i have answered most of the questions raised. i would like to conclude with a comment: at the moment, we are rightly focusing on the urgency of dealing with a security and human rights challenge and the risk of implosion of a large and important country next door to the european union. we would be wrong if we did not include among the concrete actions we are preparing these days the strength of any element of support from the european union to any of our partners, namely institution building. we are faced here with the absence of a successful process of institution building. this is what has been lacking in recent years and this is what must be the first strong point of engagement of the european union in a partnership with the libyan authorities in the future. the bottom line is this: libya is not economically weak; libya has enormous capacity: what the european union can do, beyond its commitments to security and the management of migration flows, beyond its commitment to border control, beyond its commitment to a constructive and not destructive regional dynamic, is to support institution building. we will never win the long-term challenge of libya unless we work on building democratic institutions, responsible for the entire libyan territory and responsible for managing the lives of all libyans, whether they are from tobruk, tripoli, misrata or elsewhere.
president-in-office of the council on behalf of the vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy.– madam president, on behalf of the high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy/vice-president of the commission, i am very glad that parliament still has a keen interest in the situation in mali, as the european union has deployed considerable efforts in support of peace, democracy and development in the country over the years. we are all saddened by the recent attack in bamako on 7 march which cost the lives of several people, including a belgian security officer in the eu delegation. there is a real risk that increased terrorist activity will derail the political process which is currently at a turning point. all should join efforts to make sure that this will not happen. the united nations multidimensional integrated stabilization mission in mali (minusma) in particular should be given the appropriate means to accomplish its mandate. the eu condemns the continuous attacks against the un forces, such as recently in kidal on 8 march. as you know, the eu contributed to reaching a peace agreement in algiers on 1 march. it acted as co-mediator together with the united nations, the african union, the organization of the islamic conference, the economic community of west african states and five neighbouring countries. the european union special representative was personally involved in the talks. it required substantial efforts to reach a compromise between the parties, respecting the unity and integrity of mali. the accord foresees further devolution of economic competencies and resources to local authorities and the creation of local police forces. regions should be better represented in the central institutions. the malian army will be reformed to integrate ex-rebels in its ranks and will then be progressively redeployed over all the territory under un minusma supervision. the immediate challenge for us is to obtain endorsement of the agreement by the coordination. the eureopan external action service is currently taking part in a joint mission on the ground to support this process and to convince the different stakeholders that there is no other credible alternative. it is now important for the government to demonstrate its commitment to the agreement by taking swiftly some of the actions it has undertaken to deliver. the eu will play its role in making sure progress is indeed achieved. beyond this immediate action of the mediation, resources will have to be mobilised to accompany the process through reconciliation and a re-foundation of mali. our 11th european development fund national indicative programme has just been signed on 6 march in brussels and would contribute significantly to this endeavour, but implementation will depend partly on the speed with which the government meets its obligations. other tools within the comprehensive approach and in synergy with member states and other international actors could also be mobilised as well. but of course, security remains a pre-condition for any humanitarian or development action. the un mission – minusma – as already mentioned, has a crucial role to play. the eu should support it in its efforts and make sure it is given proper means to accomplish its mandate. to this end, the eu will have to assess how the eu training mission and european union csdp mission in sahel mali, can work with minusma on the disarmament, demobilisation, and reintegration and security sector reform processes of security forces, both civilian and military, as foreseen in the agreement. these eu missions are already providing advice and training contributing to the reform of the security sector. in the longer run, efforts have to be pursued in the regional context through the implementation of the eu sahel strategy for security which was adopted in 2011. the adoption still this week of a sahel regional action plan will indicate additional actions to support the strategy in the years ahead. i thank you very much and look forward to a fruitful debate.
on behalf of the ppe club. madam president, i would like to begin by expressing my condolences to the family of the deceased employee of the delegation of the european union to mali, mr ronny piens from belgium, who was the victim of a terrorist attack in bamako. the continued violence in the north of mali has become a barrier to the development of the entire country, but also a threat to the security of the wider sahel region. this recent act of violence in mali, which included the death of a european union citizen, is unfortunately just one of many examples of violence and human rights violations. all parties to the conflict have committed serious human rights violations including violations of the right to life, enforced disappearances, torture, sexual violence, arrests. we recently met a delegation from mali in brussels who told us that there can be no peace without development and no development without peace, and i therefore join the call of the high representative and commissioner mimica to all parties to the conflict to engage in a constructive dialogue and to sign a peace agreement in algeria as soon as possible and to embark on a path of reconciliation, reconstruction and development. a peace agreement is a fundamental prerequisite, but long-term stability and growth can only be achieved through reconciliation and the eradication of extreme poverty. the citizens of mali really need eu solidarity to ensure a life of dignity through sustainable development. development cooperation between mali and the eu was renewed in 2013 after the government showed a willingness to engage in political dialogue, and it is now important that all parties show seriousness in reaching a peace agreement and return mali to the path of stability and sustainable development.
written. i welcome the initialling of the mali peace agreement, which ended months of negotiations with the key mediation of algeria and other international actors and organisations, the european union, the united nations, the african union, the economic community of west african states and several neighbouring states. the agreement reached represents a significant step towards establishing lasting peace in mali while respecting its unity, integrity and territorial sovereignty. i believe that all parties to the proceedings will endeavour to respect the compromise reached for the benefit of the malian people and to achieve a lasting solution to the conflict. it is important that the european union, in cooperation with other international actors, monitor the process of implementation of the agreed agreement, as security and peace in mali represent a strategic challenge for africa and europe. the civilian eucap sahel mali mission, launched in january this year, plays an important role in the european union's regional approach to the security and development of the sahel. in the context of the security crisis, as demonstrated by the recent attack in bamako, which also claimed the lives of several european citizens, it is important to assist the malian institutions in implementing the necessary reforms in the internal security sector. security is an indispensable precondition for all other activities that the international community wishes to undertake in the field of mali's reconstruction and development.
madam president, i welcome the memorandum of understanding that our foreign service has signed with the general secretariat of the arab league. political dialogue and cooperation on security issues between europe and the arab league are key instruments in the fight against extremism and terrorism. as a member of the development committee, i would like to highlight that dimension in this debate. the commission should also be able to provide the union with the necessary financial resources to support the implementation of the union's external action in the field of the common foreign and security policy. in this way, our development policy will also contribute to the overall effort to reduce the space for extremists who often try to legitimise their radical politics by falsely presenting themselves as fighters against corrupt regimes in the arab world. the current imperative of fighting terrorism must not lead us to make concessions on respect for human rights and the rule of law in countries with which we want to build counter-terrorism partnerships.
mr. president, if i may ask, as there has obviously been a serious mistake, it says here that the session begins today at 9:30, not 9:00. mrs nicolai, who was supposed to speak on behalf of the alde group, is not here, so i ask that either i say something now or she says something when she comes. in any case, please take into account the fact that it says 9:30 here, not 9:00.
mr president, i want to thank mr cadec for this resolution, but i am particularly interested in recreational fishing, particularly points 3 and 7 of your resolution. i see that you have recognised recreational fishing and that you say that the principle of regionalisation should be taken into account. i think it's very important to consider regional differences. specifically, i'm referring to the croatian adriatic. during the negotiations for eu membership, unfortunately we did not negotiate well, so that recreational fishermen over 60 years old are even censured financially and cannot participate in recreational fishing. so i ask you to consider these two points carefully to add maybe, in this 7 you said the difficulty of embracing recreational fishing. you know that's not easy. i know that a quarter of the fisheries when it comes to cod are recreational fisheries, but i would ask you to make sure that you have a regional approach in mind. i trust you took care of that.
mr president, regional specificities or specificities should definitely be taken into account. it's not the same to catch a cod in the adriatic or the north sea. so i ask that these specifics be given special consideration. i would also like to highlight the social component of fishing, which is recreational fishing, especially on the small adriatic islands where only a dozen, maybe fifteen families live, and for whom it is, in a way, a way of life. i want to emphasize two things in particular. we absolutely must protect our natural breeding grounds for cranes because, thank god, there are still cranes. we should also consider the possibility of re-fishing some of the smaller closed seas, because scientists have also spoken about this, and i want to say specifically that in the long term, to keep the cod on our menus, we need to promote aquaculture, that is, farming, and let that also be part of the theme and the thinking of our rapporteur.
mr president, i thank commissioner hahn for presenting the european union's priorities for this year's human rights council which are substantially in line with the key messages of the european parliament resolution we are adopting today. i consider it very good that high representative mogherini has already been present in person, as i welcome the activities of our high representative for human rights, mr lambrinidis, and the activities of the european parliament's subcommittee. i consider the mechanism of the universal periodic review of human rights, in which i myself participated a few years ago defending the report of the republic of croatia, one of the key multilateral instruments of the true and detailed monitoring of human rights of all countries in the world. i am particularly pleased that the priority this year is the situation in ukraine, and what you said commissioner hahn, the large number of human rights violations in the occupied territories of ukraine, in the illegal and contrary to international law annexed crimea, are of extreme importance to the european union and therefore we have to highlight this as well as the many, systematic, worst human rights violations that we are seeing right now by the islamic state in iraq and syria.
madam president, it is true that human rights are being violated in europe too, and it is also true that our member states in many areas, on many issues, whether it is the right to a minority language or some other rights, have human rights problems. but let's face it, europe is still the leader in human rights in the world. and that's why we need to be that example to all the countries, to all the 193 member countries that are meeting in switzerland. what i want to highlight in particular is the issue of children's rights. it's a universal right -- from children being poor, not having enough to eat, to what we see in the developed world today and what we've talked about, which is online violence against children. we must do everything we can to try and protect the most vulnerable groups first, and in this sense children are a particularly vulnerable group.
mr. president, just under four years ago, south sudan and its citizens gained independence, and that's when many of the so-called lost sons of sudan, from generations who were kidnapped and separated from their parents and recruited for military purposes, and tens of thousands who fled the country, decided to return to south sudan because they wanted to build a better future for their country. unfortunately, those lost boys who escaped the war, returned to their home to find only a new war. as early as december 2013, violent ethnic clashes began, passing the nightmares of war and lost childhood onto another generation of children. according to unicef, last year alone, across that country, about 12,000 child soldiers were used, recruited by both sides. the recent abduction of 89 boys in south sudan has reminded us of this reality, and that is why i support the un sanctions of 5 march to punish those who obstruct the attempt to end the conflict.
the question he raised by raising his blue card. mr. marias, i have to say that i am shocked by the situation in south sudan, especially with the kidnapping of children happening on a daily basis. children are recruited, separated from their parents, their parents are killed, women are raped and those who manage to survive this situation unfortunately, due to lack of food and the onset of disease are endangered. i would therefore like to know what my colleague thinks about this situation, is it enough to pass resolutions or should the european union do something concrete?
mr president, when we had an item on the agenda earlier on the work of the unhcr, i was talking about the problem of human rights violations, especially of children. in south sudan, we see the best example of the tragedy of the human rights violations of children and all that is happening, which is really abhorrent. i want to point out that today there are 12,000 children in the military, on opposing sides, and of course the only way to detect that is that there are big interests in south sudan, big interests because of the wealth of that country. i call on the commission, knowing the great efforts that the commission is making, to continue, because the tragedy with the children must be stopped.
the question he raised by raising his blue card. mr. corrao, i've been listening to you very carefully. i share your opinion and my question is very simple: do you agree with me that this is a deliberate crime against the maasai people and that the european union in such a situation should sever all serious business relations with tanzania?
mr. president, this tragedy of the maasai people reminds me of those tragedies that my istrian people have experienced in other ways. because the land grabs of the last century were everywhere, much of it because of the totalitarian regimes that were, and my region in particular suffered tremendously from that. and the people were left without land. here, today, in this century, it's really incredible that such things are happening and we're not taking any sanctions and taking any action. i sympathize with what is happening because this is how the country is being hijacked, it's really scandalous and i'm trying to make it clear that europe, the european union, needs to respond, especially if there are findings that european companies are involved.
written. ‒ boris nemtsov, a prominent reformer of russia's post-soviet society and economy, former deputy prime minister of the russian federation and one of the leaders of the russian liberal opposition, was killed two days before a planned public protest against the political, social and economic situation in the country and the conflict in ukraine, which he had co-organised. as well as expressing my condolences to mr nemtsov's family, i also express my deep concern at the series of attacks on opposition politicians, independent human rights organisations and civil society groups in russia. i expect the russian authorities to conduct a full, prompt and transparent investigation into the murder and bring the perpetrators swiftly to justice.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the joint motion for a resolution on the assassination of russian opposition leader boris nemtsov and the state of democracy in russia because i believe that this case requires an independent investigation that will contribute to strengthening fundamental human rights and the rule of law in russia. i believe that by respecting international law, mediation and diplomacy, a strategic agreement can be reached between the european union and russia to ensure a rapid de-escalation of tensions. in this context, it is necessary to put an end to all human rights violations, repressive measures and other forms of pressure, in order to establish a genuine dialogue in accordance with the russian constitution in the form of implementing the reform plan and promoting an open society.
written. ‒ i support the urgent resolution condemning the assassination of boris nemtsov, opposition leader and a great critic of vladimir putin and the war in ukraine. as the former deputy prime minister of the russian federation, he was responsible for the repression of the ukrainian people in the crimea. i welcome the call for an impartial international investigation into the murder and for the european union to take into account the current political atmosphere, propaganda and information warfare against neighbouring states and serious violations of the rule of law and human rights in formulating policy towards russia. russia is a member of the united nations, the council of europe, and the osce, yet the human rights situation in russia has deteriorated dramatically in recent years. the most recent examples are the imprisonment of opposition leader alexei navalny for supporting demonstrations and the unlawful detention of nadia savchenko. for each conviction, the fact that some high-ranking foreign officials, including european parliament member sandra kalniete, were prevented by the russian authorities from paying their last respects at the funeral.
written. - i supported this resolution because i am appalled by the murder of a prominent politician and leader of the russian opposition boris nemtsov. this murder is a direct attack on our most fundamental principles - the right to life and freedom of speech. i am deeply concerned about the state of democracy in russia and the level of human rights protection in that country as russia is disregarding its international obligations under membership of the council of europe and the osce. that's why it's important to conduct a full and impartial investigation and punish the perpetrators. justice must be served on behalf of all russian citizens who know what it means to fight for a democratic and modern russia. they deserve our solidarity, as do all those who fight for true values. i also support the call for the russian authorities to release all political prisoners, and in particular nadiya savchenko.
written. ‒ in recent years, the human rights situation in russia has deteriorated and the russian authorities have passed a series of laws containing vague provisions, which are used to further restrict opposition actors as well as civil society actors and to make it more difficult to exercise freedom of expression and assembly; whereas the ministry of justice has used the new powers granted to it to designate 42 groups as foreign agents, including the most professional and trusted human rights organisations in the country. he was also a member of the 'people's council' of the so-called 'donetsk people's republic'. the latest tragic example of the murder of boris nemtsov is just further evidence in support of the previous facts. the russian authorities must stop the current propaganda and information war against their neighbours, the western world and their own people, which is turning russia into a state characterised by repression, hate speech and fear, in which the annexation of crimea and the escalation of the state of war in ukraine are the reason for national euphoria, in which the rights of the crimean tatars are violated and in which the kremlin nurtures and incites hatred and violence, thus violating international law.
‒ the question of the state of democracy in russia after the execution of boris nemtsov in moscow deserves a wide-ranging debate in the european parliament with the high representative of the european union for foreign affairs and security policy federica mogherini. while the prominent russian political opposition figure, gary kasparov, has said that the murder of vocal kremlin critic boris nemtsov has extinguished any hope of a peaceful political transition in russia, it is important to insist on a transparent, independent and thorough investigation that will reveal the perpetrators and the commissioners of this murder. the european union, which promotes democracy and human rights, freedom and the rule of law in accordance with its fundamental principles, has a duty to continuously integrate respect for these values into all segments of its relations with russia. the eu should also give clear support to the thousands of russian citizens who gathered symbolically in front of the sakharov centre before the start of the deportation of boris nemtsov, and send unambiguous support to the russian opposition. i also believe that the european parliament should strongly condemn the refusal to allow the entry into russia of ms sandri kalnieta, who wanted to attend the funeral of boris nemtsov, but was instead detained for hours at moscow airport on the pretext that she posed a threat to the state security and public order of the russian federation.
written. - first of all, i would like to express my sincere condolences to the family and friends of boris nemtsov. recent events in russia, most recently the assassination of opposition leader boris nemtsov, point to serious violations of democracy, human rights and the rule of law in that country. i express my concern about this situation and support the resolution to work together to create a firm, consistent and comprehensive eu policy towards russia. i call on the russian authorities to stop the shameful war propaganda and violation of basic human rights, to stop the continuing intimidation and harassment of opposition members, and to release all political prisoners as well as the abducted nadia savchenko and eston kohver.
written. ‒ i support this resolution and strongly condemn the murder of boris nemtsov because it is an attack on freedom of speech, but also an attack on all those principles that we in the european union hold as fundamental. we must act in good conscience and take whatever steps are necessary to conduct a thorough international investigation. this is not only in the interest of us in the european union but also of all russian citizens, especially as we see that in the last few years their rights have been seriously violated. i also consider it important to support and show solidarity with the russian democrats and their efforts to create a russia based on dignity and true values.
written. ‒ i support the annual report of the high representative for foreign affairs and security policy, bearing in mind the great temptations and challenges facing the european union. the security environment has deteriorated, there is the problem of isis, with attempts to export terrorism and endanger eu citizens. there's a war on the territory of ukraine, and relations with russia are deteriorating. the eu has a problem in aligning common positions and in being consistent in implementing the positions adopted. the lack of flexibility of the union's financial system in the face of the dynamics of developments on the ground is also a problem. foreign policy is increasingly linked to the eu's internal policies. the same consideration should be given to external and internal security. the eu needs to position itself as a credible participant in international processes, and the eu delegation network needs to be modernised. it is imperative to preserve the level of security and stability achieved and the european political and legal order.
‒ the annual report by mr brok on the european union's foreign and security policy points out that the union has not used its power to shape an international environment that has deteriorated drastically because of the internal crisis. the union's priority is to develop a foreign policy based on its core interests, values and objectives. financial instability and constraints make it impossible to respond quickly to crises. poor cooperation with third countries and a lack of consistency and coordination between member states constitute an obstacle to the achievement of the union's foreign and security policy objectives. the commission is asked to be more active in strategic planning and operational action and to develop a comprehensive political strategy to address emerging threats and challenges, taking into account global change. the recent terrorist attacks, the conflict in ukraine, but also in the middle east, have a major impact on the security of our citizens and threaten the interests of the union. we need to take a clear stance on important issues such as terrorism, migration, energy security and relations with russia and our eastern and southern neighbours. i support the views of the rapporteur on the annual report of the high representative of the european union, mrs frederica mogherini, which aims to draw attention to the lack of effective union response to crisis situations. it is important to develop as soon as possible coordinated strategies for cooperation and partnership within the union and with non-member states in order to strengthen security and promote democracy and human rights.
written. ‒ the security environment around the eu has deteriorated dramatically due to numerous new and long-running crises, particularly in its immediate neighbourhood, where the order, stability and security of europe, based on international law, is facing its greatest challenge since the start of the european integration process. the recent terrorist attacks in eu countries show that it is becoming increasingly difficult to separate internal from external security, and i therefore support the call for member states and eu institutions to pool their efforts in these areas more effectively. i would like to highlight in particular a very important part of the report which recalls that energy is increasingly being used as an instrument of foreign policy and that energy cooperation is the cornerstone of european integration. the political reality is that, in addition to security, energy has become the oxygen for democracy, so it is high time that we upgraded the political integration of the european union to include energy integration. the european foreign and security policy needs a thorough revision that will protect european values and interests and strengthen the political and legal order in europe, thus restoring and preserving peace and stability. in these turbulent times, when local crises can quickly develop into regional and even global ones thanks to globalisation, we have a unique opportunity to strengthen the union's common foreign and security policy, which has often been a dilemma.
‒ the annual report of the high representative of the european union for foreign affairs and security policy evaluates the common foreign and security policies of the european union member states and gives us a number of recommendations for improving them. the report calls for a more proactive and ambitious european union foreign policy and for the adoption of a new european security strategy taking into account global changes and emerging threats and challenges. that is why i support this report and agree that the political, economic and financial means of the eu and the member states must come together to, among other things, face the new political and security environment, protect european values and interests and support security, democratisation, the rule of law and the development of the eu's neighbourhood. the european union must be a credible partner in partnership with the rest of the world and contribute to strengthening stability based on cooperation and rules. this is particularly the case with better coordination with the us as a key strategic partner of the eu, the development of a strategy on sharing responsibility for peace and stability of the world political and economic order with russia, china and other actors, and the strengthening of the eu's foreign policy towards asia.
written. the security environment around the eu has deteriorated dramatically, especially in its immediate neighbourhood, where we are facing our greatest challenge to date since the start of the european integration process. the report warns of the changes currently taking place on the world political scene. the eu's foreign and security policy priorities are to protect european values and interests and to strengthen the political and legal order in europe, thereby restoring and maintaining peace and stability, and to enhance the eu's contribution to the territorial defence of its member states and the security of its citizens by strengthening its ability to defend itself against the threats it faces, including terrorism and trafficking in arms, drugs and persons, and to improve the eu's internal structures and working methods in order to strengthen its resilience and realise its full potential on the world stage. i stress that external financial assistance allocated by the eu and member states must be redirected and used more efficiently in line with agreed strategic priorities, and i call on the eu to take more measures to make eu assistance more visible, coherent and effective. i stress the need to establish strategic cooperation and partnerships with a number of countries, with a clear plan, and to carry out reviews of current strategic partnerships in the light of the impact of their policies and therefore i support this report.
written. ‒ the report is comprehensive and covers the important elements. the eu must invest in the protection of fundamental human rights in the world, in particular the rights of minorities and vulnerable groups. tolerance and mutual respect are core values of the eu. the report sets out clear priorities within the eu and beyond, and that is why i support it!
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution on the 2013 annual report on human rights and democracy in the world, and i consider this a fundamental issue whose aspects should be included in all the political, social and economic processes in which the union is engaged. the rule of law, freedom of speech, respect for human rights, an independent judiciary define a democratic society. today, most of the world's population does not live under such conditions, so it is imperative that we develop relationships that create the conditions for improving such conditions. i support the fact that human rights have become an important part of the union's action in bilateral, multilateral and institutional relations. i also welcome the proposal to retain the post of eu special representative for human rights and to make it a permanent post with all the prerequisites for effective work.
written. ‒ i welcome the adoption of the amendment that i insisted on and which exempted from paragraph 165 the inadmissible invitation of croatia as an eu member state to hold a referendum on the constitutional protection of marriage in 2013. it corrects the injustice of calling on member states to use democratic institutions in matters of importance to their citizens, thereby making the report an undue interference in the regulation of internal policies which are the responsibility of the member states. in the same way, the report interfered in the internal affairs of two other member states, slovakia and lithuania, in the same paragraph. i could not support the whole report because unfortunately, despite the amendments it contained, it still contained references to the right to abortion and sexual and reproductive rights, which violates the principle of subsidiarity within the european union. in the same way, these issues are being unduly imposed on countries outside the european union, which must also have the right to decide on these issues on their own. i regret that the european union is increasingly turning into a promoter of abortion instead of a promoter of life.
‒ 2013 was not the brightest example of respect for human rights, both in the european union and in the world in general, despite the fact that on 23 june 2014 the council adopted the eu annual report on human rights and democracy in the world for 2013, which covered the first full year of implementation of the eu strategic framework and action plan on human rights and democracy. the number of incidents involving freedom of religion or belief has increased dramatically, partly as a result of the growing number of conflicts with religious symbols. 2013 is also the first full year of the new mandate of the eu special representative for human rights and the holder of this post should help the union to coordinate its activities in order to make its action in promoting respect for human rights worldwide, and in particular women's rights, clearer and more visible. i would like to support first of all the part of the report that highlights the clear link between corruption and human rights violations. sometimes the violation of rights in this way does not seem clear and obvious, but corruption in the public and private sectors encourages and exacerbates inequalities and discrimination and prevents the equal enjoyment of civil, political, economic, social and cultural rights. unfortunately, eu citizens are still too often exposed to violations of their rights in this way.
written. ‒ report on the annual report on human rights and democracy in the world 2013 by piera antonia panzerija was originally adopted in the committee on foreign affairs, following a heated debate over the undermined principle of subsidiarity, a fundamental principle of the european union's functioning. the report was created with the aim of drawing attention to the importance of respect for human rights in the field of eu external policies. it also stresses the need to systematically include binding agreements in human rights clauses in international agreements signed by the eu with third countries, including trade and investment, and calls on the commission to propose a draft document containing a human rights component. it is commendable that the report contains recommendations for the fight against corruption, ideology, and for the protection of children's rights, but it found unacceptable references to the situation in the member states, including the referendum held in croatia that calls into question the right to life. paragraphs 136 and 164 directly violate and call into question the subsidiarity of the member states of the union, which is contrary to the eu acquis and that is why i did not support this report.
written. ‒ mr president, i support this memorandum of understanding between the eu and the arab league. terrorism is the greatest evil in the world today and certainly the fight against terrorism is much more effective when it is coordinated by multiple parties, and the signing of the memorandum strengthens efforts to address this global threat.
written. ‒ i supported the joint motion for a resolution on eu-league of arab states relations and cooperation in the fight against terrorism because terrorism, particularly that based on jihadist extremism, is becoming a serious global threat that needs to be tackled by coordinated efforts of national governments and international organisations. it is necessary to find solutions to achieve peace and stability, but also the causes that lead to the development of extreme forms of terrorism that do not choose potential victims. it is important that counter-terrorism efforts and actions do not compromise human rights and freedoms and that a satisfactory balance be found in this respect. i support the publication of the memorandum of understanding signed on 19 january 2015 between the european external action service and the general secretariat of the league of arab states, as such a document should be made available and subject to democratic and judicial scrutiny.
written. ‒ the third meeting of the foreign ministers of the european union and the league of arab states last year adopted a declaration in which ministers expressed their support for euro-arab cooperation and ensured unity in the strategic challenges ahead. the motion for a resolution by the club of representatives of the european people's party welcomes the strengthening of dialogue and cooperation between the european union and the league of arab states. the plan is to increase understanding of political and security issues through the exchange of experience, information and best practices with a view to better responding to crises, combating terrorism and organised crime and curbing weapons of mass destruction. i join in condemning all forms of terrorism and extremism as they are major threats to our security and must continue to work in line with the un global counter-terrorism strategy.
written. ‒ terrorism and violent extremism are among the main threats to our security and our freedoms. i welcome the cooperation aimed at fostering a strategic dialogue between the eu and the league of arab states. the eu should actively support the global partnership against terrorism and work closely with regional actors such as the african union, the gulf cooperation council and the league of arab states, and in particular with the neighbouring countries of syria and iraq, as well as with the un, in particular its counter-terrorism committee. the european union's external and development policies must be geared towards a comprehensive fight against terrorism, with the aim of combating poverty, discrimination and marginalisation, combating corruption and promoting good governance, and preventing and resolving conflicts, all of which contribute to the marginalisation of certain groups and segments of society and make them vulnerable to the propaganda of extremist groups.
written. ‒ terrorism and violent extremism are major threats to security and freedoms worldwide, and eu policies must therefore contribute to combating the terrorist threat that is becoming more serious in certain parts of its neighbourhood, notably in syria and libya. in particular, the eu faces a serious and growing threat from so-called 'eu foreign fighters', that is to say individuals who travel to a country where they are neither resident nor a national with the aim of committing or planning terrorist acts or participating in terrorist training, either as trainers or as trainees, also in connection with armed conflicts. since the outbreak of war and violence in syria, iraq and libya, an estimated 3,500 to 5,000 eu citizens have left their homes to become foreign fighters. we're talking thousands of eu citizens, reportedly as many as a dozen islamic state forces. military victory over dictators and terrorists alone is not enough, because it is easier to remove the top of regimes than the political, economic and social circumstances in which they were maintained. the deep socioeconomic and cultural causes of this phenomenon need to be properly identified and addressed. it is also necessary to strongly advocate a review of the nature of the political system in the countries with which it cooperates in order to protect respect for the principles of human rights, the rule of law and democracy.
written. ‒ the memorandum of understanding between the eu and the league of arab states on cooperation in the fight against terrorism strengthens the eu-arab states relationship in the fight against the greatest threat to peace today - terrorism. the adoption of the resolution is important as it will enhance dialogue and cooperation between the two sides with a view to promoting a strategic dialogue between the eu and the league of arab states on political and security issues in the field of early warning and crisis response in the fight against terrorism, transnational organised crime and the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction. peace in the arab states is also an eu commitment to a stable neighbourhood policy, particularly in the middle east, libya, syria and iraq. when the french satirical newspaper charlie hebdo was attacked by terrorists earlier this year, it was a clear signal that the terrorist movement is not at rest and that it is a threat to our citizens and societies. the eu and the league of arab states should continue to work together to ensure that the return of fighters to their place of origin is not a matter of speculation or of dispute, but of a genuine and effective response to the situation.
written. ‒ i support the motion for a resolution on the memorandum of understanding between the eu and the league of arab states on cooperation in the fight against terrorism. the memorandum of understanding, signed on 19 january 2015, supports and strengthens the relations between the eu and the league of arab states. political dialogue and cooperation on security issues between europe and the arab league are key instruments in the fight against extremism and terrorism. the commission should also be able to provide the union with the necessary financial resources to support the implementation of the union's external action in the field of the common foreign and security policy. in this way, our development policy will also contribute to the overall effort to reduce the space for extremists who often try to legitimise their radical politics by falsely presenting themselves as fighters against corrupt regimes in the arab world. the current imperative of fighting terrorism must not lead us to make concessions on respect for human rights and the rule of law in countries with which we want to build counter-terrorism partnerships.
written. ‒ the cod is a noble species that is highly sought after in the fishing industry because of its considerable economic value. the recovery of the cod population size will take a long time due to the fact that the mortality rate is still very high and that this is a late maturing and slow growing species. research shows that the number of cranes is decreasing despite the measures currently in place by the european commission. while this report deals with the state of the cod stocks in the northern seas of the european union, it is also relevant for the southern seas such as the adriatic. in croatia, the growing presence of cod farming in fish farms covers a good part of the demand for this fish on the market. measures to conserve the population of bran are necessary, but i call on the commission not to impose binding measures without taking into account regional specificities.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution on sustainable fishing for hake because it highlights the problems of overfishing and the problems of biological sustainability and of the high-quality fishery, given the lack of scientific data on hake stocks, but also the various alarming studies on the state of the stocks despite the measures taken by the commission in the past. it also showed that safeguard measures at national level are not sufficient. this resolution sets out the preconditions and calls on the commission to take the necessary measures to conserve gillnets and to ensure sustainable fishing, both recreational and professional.
written. ‒ the proposal for a resolution by cadeca's representatives calls on member states to define the state of the cod stocks and to limit catches of this species, given that the fisheries committee's recommendations are to reduce catches by up to 60% in order to protect the species. it also invites the commission to propose a multiannual plan for cod catches and stocks. in january, an emergency ban on the fishing of blue ling in the united kingdom, france, belgium and the netherlands came into force during the monsoon season, which runs until the end of april. despite these measures, the cod is still hunted because the blue fish has economic value. i support the motion for a resolution which aims to encourage member states to regulate bluefin tuna fishing in order to preserve the species, but i hereby call for regional characteristics to be taken into account.
written. ‒ i support the european parliament's resolution on the sustainable exploitation of seabirds because it speaks of the need to protect this species from overfishing and of measures that must be based on scientific evidence. i particularly welcome the principle of a regional approach mentioned in the resolution. the european parliament sometimes talks about the harmonisation of standards and practices within the european union, but nature does not know how to harmonise standards and practices because it depends on its adaptation to the geographical area in which it exists and to the given climatic and other conditions. however, different ecological conditions and current fishing practices in different geographical areas of the cod fishery result in greater or lesser pressures on the sustainability of the species. the commission shall be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 26 to supplement this regulation by laying down detailed rules for the application of this regulation. it is equally important that fishermen are consulted on the measures, as they will be the most affected. it is in their interest to protect the fish resource for the future, just as it is in the eu's interest to protect its citizens - the fishermen.
written. ‒ according to various studies, the status of the cod stocks is worrying, regardless of the measures taken by the commission in the past. the recovery of the cod population size will take a long time due to the fact that the mortality rate is still very high and that this is a late maturing and slow growing species. the catch in recreational fisheries is significant and represents at least a quarter of the catch of that species. in order to ensure that the union's fishing fleet is able to comply with the requirements of this regulation, the commission should be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 21 concerning the establishment of a union fishing fleet in the area of the union. together, the european institutions and the member states must create a multiannual management plan for cod to bring the stock above the maximum sustainable yield and to protect this special and valuable fish species.
written. ‒ i support the european parliament's resolution on sustainable crab fishing, as despite the measures taken earlier by the commission, various studies show a worrying status of crab stocks, their mortality rate is still very high and they are a late-maturing and slow-growing species. the commission considers that the use of cod in the fishery is not justified by the fact that the cod is not caught in the same area as the cod in the other areas of the union. it is important to emphasise that in the long term all stocks should be exploited at a level that allows them to produce the highest sustainable yield and, in this regard, it is necessary for the commission to adopt a multiannual management plan for hake and to involve in its preparation professional and recreational fishermen and an advisory council. the management measures for the fisheries of the straits should be adopted at european level and the proximity management and the principle of regionalisation should also be promoted. at the same time, measures for recreational and commercial fisheries must be mutually consistent and in line with the objectives of the common fisheries policy.
written. ‒ scientific data on the status of cod stocks are incomplete and according to various studies the stock status is worrying. the cod is a noble species, which is highly sought after in the fishing industry because of its economic value. the commission has also concluded that the stock of bluefin tuna in the baltic sea is not at risk of overfishing. i supported this resolution on the sustainable exploitation of hake and agree that measures for the management of hake fisheries need to be adopted at european level in order to protect this species and bring stocks to levels above or below the maximum sustainable yield. i welcome the proposal to involve professional fishermen, recreational fishermen and an advisory council in the development of the plan and measures at european level.
written. today, numerous scientific studies show that the status of the crab stocks is worrying, despite the commission's previous actions, and that the recovery of the crab population size will take a long period due to the fact that the mortality rate is still very high and that it is a late-maturing and slow-growing species. it is also important to emphasise that this is at the same time a very popular recreational fishery and consumers should be encouraged to consume other less popular species. the scientific, technical and economic committee for fisheries (stecf) recommends reducing the fishing mortality of gillnets by approximately 60% and therefore the need to create a plan for the sustainability of stocks and the balance between recreational and commercial fisheries, which has become increasingly popular in recent years. i think that the resolution is welcome, but i also stress that it is very important to take account of regional differences, and i am referring in particular to the croatian adriatic. the fact is that the republic of croatia did not get the best conditions for small fishermen during the accession negotiations, so i consider this issue to be extremely important and worthwhile to further consider and improve the problem of small fishermen.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the joint motion for a resolution on the european union's priorities for the united nations human rights council in 2015 because one of the pillars of the european union is the protection and promotion of the universality of human rights. a free and democratic society must be based on respect for the civil, political, social and economic rights of all individuals in order to ensure the effective and comprehensive application of internationally recognised human rights. further efforts are needed in the areas of gender equality, the rights of children and lgbti people to ensure the universality and indivisibility of those rights. i also believe that the european union must continue to provide concrete assistance to certain countries where fundamental human rights are not fully respected or are being violated, as has been established in the case of ukraine, syria and others.
written. ‒ i support the resolution on the 28th session of the united nations human rights council which gives priority to civil and political rights, which implies freedom of thought and expression, of religion and the fight against all forms of discrimination and violence. i welcome the un development plan for social and economic rights and the efforts to eradicate poverty by 2030. we need to be aware that corruption, tax evasion, mismanagement of public goods and lack of accountability contribute to human rights violations. governments are obligated to respect the rights of citizens and to provide education, health care, and other social rights. the resolution notes that despite progress, women's rights remain under threat, with women underrepresented in decision-making positions and violence against women widespread. children's rights are equally at risk, and more than 58 million children lack the basic conditions for normal development, education and life. calls on all member states to promote the universality and indivisibility of human rights, accordingly including human rights in all areas of foreign policy including trade, development and investment policy and security and defence policy;
written. the un human rights council rightly condemns the self-proclaimed islamic state, which in my opinion is only the latest, extreme form of threat to the christian communities living in areas that we consider the cradle of our faith, and which today are on the verge of complete disappearance. the tragedy of the disappearance of christians from areas that are sacred to us, the tragedy of the loss of a link to our roots. communities and cultures that have endured for nearly two thousand years are today facing religious and cultural destruction. rivers of blood still flow in the middle east today. rivers of the blood of christians who, despite all the disasters of history, have survived in the lands where our faith was born. a faith that makes christians in the middle east often second-class citizens. the doors of the european union must be open to our brothers and sisters fleeing death threats, but it is also necessary to do everything possible to preserve christianity in the middle east. we must be concrete in our actions, not just stand by and watch our brothers and sisters being killed or pass resolutions that remain a dead letter on paper. enough of the shrugging and the justification that parliament has no executive role. but we have a responsibility. as politicians and as people. let's show her.
written. ‒ the motion for a resolution is based on topical and thematic issues such as the establishment of human rights, the death penalty, civil and political rights, women's rights and children's rights, and the inclusion and placing of human rights at the heart of eu policy. respect for, and promotion and protection of, the universality of human rights is one of the fundamental principles of the european union. that is why i stress the importance of the participation of parliamentary delegations in the human rights council and in all other relevant un sessions, as this contributes to the promotion and respect of human rights and democracy.
written. ‒ i welcome this proposal because it is clear that the un human rights council is one of the most important actors in protecting and promoting the universality of human rights. all states are obliged to respect the fundamental rights of their populations and to take concrete measures to guarantee the protection of human rights. they must first and foremost provide protection within their borders. freedom of expression is the backbone of any free and democratic society and we must not allow cases like charlie hebdo to ever happen again, i condemn the use of religion for the purposes of extremist and jihadist groups in all countries, and especially in syria and iraq. i also call on the situation in eastern ukraine and welcome all efforts to protect human rights, which are being increasingly undermined in that area. this resolution is important because it supports the work of the international criminal court in the field of ending impunity for the perpetrators of the most serious crimes. it also deals with the protection of the rights of women, children and immigrants and these are just some of the reasons why i will support this resolution and join the fight to protect fundamental human rights.
written. ‒ venezuela has been rocked by social and political unrest for some time, caused by the economic situation and the deep polarization of society. the detention of democratically elected politicians, the lifting of the legislative immunity of deputies in the national assembly and the continued detention of opposition leaders since february 2014 are among the causes of protests and street clashes that have killed 44 people. new protests could cause more violence, which would only deepen the gap between the government and the opposition and further polarize the fragile political situation. therefore, i urge representatives of all parties and sectors of venezuelan society to remain calm in both words and deeds. furthermore, i call on the government of venezuela to adhere to its own constitution and to respect international obligations regarding the independence of the judiciary, the rights to freedom of expression, association and peaceful assembly, and political pluralism, as these are the foundations of democracy.
written. ‒ i supported the resolution on the situation in venezuela, as i believe that the european parliament should take a stand and act actively in terms of pointing out the obvious violations of human rights and the undemocratic use of the levers of power in the political struggle. this resolution gives a clear signal that the eu parliament is aware of what is happening in venezuela and calls on the high representative, other eu institutions and international institutions to act in this regard.
written. ‒ recent events in venezuela point to a political, economic and social crisis. evidence of the political crisis is the violent detention of the mayor of the caracas area a month ago and the alleged foreign conspiracy, destabilization plans and assassination attempts of high-ranking officials that president nicolás maduro has revealed on national television. venezuela has the largest energy reserves in latin america, but its citizens suffer from shortages of basic foodstuffs and doubled food prices. at the same time, they live in fear of a government that imposes strict censorship. it is a disturbing fact that earlier this year the department of defense authorized the use of potentially lethal force as a last resort to avoid riots. i support the motion for a resolution which expresses deep concern at the instability in venezuela, the deterioration of democratic coexistence, the atmosphere of political violence and violation of fundamental rights and the increasing authoritarianism of the government. i call for respect for fundamental human rights and freedoms and dialogue to resolve this social, economic and political crisis in venezuela.
written. - fourteen-year-old student kluvierto rou was killed in cold blood by a venezuelan state police officer during anti-government protests near the catholic university of táchira, becoming the first victim after nicolás maduro authorized the use of firearms against protesters. president nicolás maduro, in a national radio and television program, announced the disclosure of an alleged plan to destabilize his government by an alleged coup d'état involving the leaders of the coalition of democratic union, and already before, the leaders of the democratic opposition were repeatedly and baselessly accused of participating in alleged plans to destabilize the state and coups d'état, resulting in permanent political persecution and the lifting of their parliamentary immunity. the situation in venezuela is unacceptable and a strong reaction of the international legal institutions is needed to prevent further flagrant violations of the fundamental principles of democracy. the people of venezuela deserve support in their fight against the repression of their government. we must not leave them alone, it is our duty to ensure that democracy, freedom, the rule of law and tolerance are respected in all parts of the world. the intimidation and punishment of dissenters is unacceptable, freedom of thought and freedom of speech must be protected because they are the pillars of our society.
written. ‒ after the detention of democratically elected politicians, the removal of legislative immunity from members of the national assembly and the detention of leading opposition figures since february 2014, street protests have erupted in venezuela. since february 2014, 44 people have been killed, including a 14-year-old schoolboy. following the anti-government protests in february 2014, most of the arrested protesters were released, but 83 people are still in prison and currently awaiting trial for alleged involvement in the protests. all of this data clearly indicates the need for us to act. this is all the more so as the eu funds a wide range of projects by the venezuelan government and ngos aimed at strengthening human rights and democracy, in particular under the european instrument for democracy and human rights. i support calls on the government of venezuela to ensure maximum neutrality and transparency of the democratic process in order to allow all candidates and political parties to participate and conduct the electoral campaign on an equal footing. i also support calls for the government to ensure the impunity of people for exercising their rights to peaceful assembly and freedom of expression and to repeal recently issued resolution 008.610, which allows the use of firearms or other potentially lethal weapons by security forces. these are just some of the conditions for improving the situation and respecting the rights of citizens, which we must strive for, wherever they are.
written. - after the death of hugo chavez, we wanted to believe that venezuela would turn the page of totalitarianism and start the process of transition to a democratic society, and the latest events point to an alarming situation in the segment of human rights and democracy. one year after legitimate and peaceful opposition protests calling for the resignation of president maduro, which were suppressed by repression and the killing of 43 people, venezuelan opposition leader and mayor of caracas, antonio ledezma, was arrested these days, accused without any evidence of plotting a coup. the recent cold-blooded murder of high school student kluivert roe and the arrest of opposition leaders confirm that maduro's government is becoming increasingly authoritarian and repressive. in this context, it is important to re-launch a dialogue between the government, the opposition and civil society organisations that will reach a consensus in addressing the dramatic situation that has arisen. the venezuelan people will have the opportunity to participate in parliamentary elections later this year, so it is important to ensure the conditions for political pluralism, protection of human rights, democracy, freedom of the media, freedom of speech and assembly in the coming period. the european parliament calls for the establishment of the rule of law in future relations with venezuela, and calls for the democratization of society in compliance with international human rights obligations, and i therefore support this resolution of the european parliament.
written. ‒ when on february 19th of this year, an armed group of venezuelan intelligence forces entered the offices of the mayor of the caracas metropolitan area without any court order, and under the charge of conspiracy and association with the intent of the conspiracy, took the mayor to a military prison, the masks of the venezuelan government finally fell. it became clear that there is no respect for political freedom and individual freedom in venezuela, and that there is no respect for democracy in venezuela. the democratic opposition, media and protesters have continuously faced political persecution. maduro was elected in a democratic election, but it's not just about electing a government democratically, but also about respecting the opposition and civil liberties. when a government starts to restrict those freedoms and imprison its political opponents, then it's an authoritarian regime. the regime of nicolás maduro has clearly turned into a dictatorship. venezuela is sinking deeper into poverty and repression. i supported this motion for a resolution on the situation in venezuela because i believe that we need to send a clear message on behalf of the international community and the european parliament.
written. ‒ i believe that the political persecution and repression of the democratic opposition in venezuela must be stopped as soon as possible, because it is unacceptable to repeat cases such as the imprisonment of antonio ledesma and his transfer to a military prison (the twice democratically elected mayor of the metropolitan district of caracas and one of the opposition leaders who is imprisoned without an arrest warrant and without any concrete evidence), and the statement by the president himself on national radio and television in which he said that he had foiled a plan allegedly aimed at overthrowing his government. the government needs to be reminded that without opposition, there is no democratic society. they need to be warned to stick to their own constitution since the supreme court justices have openly rejected the principle of separation of powers. local and international organizations are concerned that one year after peaceful protests, more than 1,700 protesters are awaiting trial, more than 69 are still in prison, and at least 40 people have been killed in protests while their killers are still not held accountable. given the alarming situation in venezuela, i have supported the resolution with the aim of resolving the situation as soon as possible.
the question he raised by raising his blue card. mrs. fotyga, thank you for accepting my blue card. several of your colleagues from poland are constantly talking about how we need to think carefully about whether and how to get rid of coal as an energy source. i'm one of those in croatia who opposes the project that's trying to build a coal-fired power plant. i ask you what energy needs do you see for poland and how do you think other energy sources should be introduced in poland?
mr president, i have already expressed my support on several occasions for the common energy market and the energy union. at this point, i want to highlight three things, two of which have happened in the last few days. mr šefčovič was in turkey for the opening ceremony of the tanap gas pipeline, which, with its tap branch, should be of great importance to many european countries. i want to encourage the interest in building tanap and tap, because i think it's a good way to solve the energy problem of a part of the european union countries. second thing, we were recently in serbia, montenegro and albania. i repeat and warn the commission - the balkans have tremendous potential, thousands of megawatts for renewable hydroelectricity. third: the construction of the nlg terminal at krk, in the northern adriatic. i call on the commission to support this project as well.
mr. president, we see that the spring summit has covered a lot of issues, from ttip, energy union, libya, tunisia, ukraine. many topics were inevitable and on the agenda, but you have focused on one topic, the energy union, and it is good practice to focus on one topic. the energy union is a topic that concerns us all at the moment, but it is not just about the more than 500 million european union citizens who are interested in this topic, it is also about investing in energy and it is very important to empower investors to make sure that europe can be invested safely. i want to support mr. tusk's opening statement. you said that structural reforms must first be done at the national level. i really want to support you in this, because without structural reforms at national level there will be no growth and development, and we are particularly interested in youth employment, i.e. unemployment, and i ask you to insist on this.
written. i welcome the conclusions of the european council meeting confirming the eu's commitment to creating an energy union based on energy security, solidarity and trust, an integrated european energy market and energy efficiency that contributes to consumption reduction, economic decarbonisation, research, innovation and competitiveness. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's energy policy and its implementation in the member states. it is also important to align existing national legislation with eu energy law and to ensure its full implementation and application, in particular when it comes to the purchase of gas from external suppliers. the development of a more efficient, flexible market model should be accompanied by enhanced regional cooperation and help in the integration of renewable energy sources. on external relations, i welcome the commitment to strengthen relations with neighbours and to focus the eu's commitment on its eastern and southern partners. the european council called on all parties to the minsk agreements to implement swiftly and fully the commitments made in the minsk agreements and stressed the responsibility of the russian authorities in this regard. with regard to libya, the eu has expressed its readiness, with the countries of the region and international partners, to contribute to the implementation of the agreement on the formation of a government of national unity, making full use of all its instruments which are important for the democratic processes in that country.
written. i welcome the council conclusions adopted at its meeting last week on the issues that will largely define the future of the european project. the commission shall be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 290 concerning the conditions for the participation of third countries in union programmes in the field of energy. i hope that the union's energy policies will be included in the revision of the neighbourhood policy and will be a strong factor in the continuation of the enlargement policy. i am pleased that the council has supported this proposal and i hope that support for this project will be followed by increased investment and funding in existing enrget projects. the two existing projects of exceptional importance for croatia and the neighbourhood are the lng terminal at krk and the adriatic-ionian gas pipeline. one way of doing this is through the european fund for strategic investments, which the council also supported at this meeting to be operational by the middle of this year. as regards the ttip negotiations, i appreciate the council's constructive approach and i would like to stress once again that the free movement of capital must be preceded by full visa reciprocity and the free movement of all union citizens. finally, i am pleased that the council has also recognised the seriousness of the problem of migrant casualties at the union's southern borders and i hope that the european agenda on migration, which we expect in may, will offer adequate solutions.
mr president, the rapporteur rightly recognises the need to relieve smes of the tax burden, but nevertheless, in my view, she has not addressed a sufficiently strong call to member states with un-stimulative tax policies to relieve their taxpayers and businesses. we would not be engaged to this extent in the fight against tax evasion and avoidance today if member states had not, through excessive levies and administrative burdens, literally declared a part of citizens and businesses to be in the grey economy. accordingly, i do not support the rapporteur's condemnation of those member states which have sought to establish an incentive tax system that encourages investment and attracts foreign investors. it's not the fault of those countries that they're competitive, it's the fault of the others that they're not.
written. the european commission's new tax transparency package will oblige 28 member states to share data on all tax agreements they have with multinational companies. by ensuring stronger cooperation between member states, as well as their tax administrations, the new measures will significantly improve the transparency of tax rulings compared to the situation we face today. the green/epp group is determined to be the leading political force in the fight against tax fraud in the european union and has proposed the establishment of a european parliament committee of inquiry to investigate all possible cases of breaches of european tax laws and practices. i am convinced that the committee of inquiry is the strongest instrument in the hands of the european parliament and, through the oversight power of meps, represents the power of citizens in the european union. it is the only one that allows for a comprehensive access to the official documentation of the member states, the commission and the council of the european union. for the above reasons, it is important to make good use of the mandate of the newly formed special committee and thus protect the public interest of all citizens of the european union.
written. transparency is one of the fundamental principles of the functioning of the european union, which must be equally represented in all segments of the union's functioning, and in this respect i particularly emphasise financial operations. so i'm glad we're finally talking about the disparity of tax policies in the eu member states, as well as tax evasion. the commission notes that the tax transparency policy of the czech republic is based on the principle of the taxpayer's right to know the amount of tax due. such practices are not illegal because they are different in nature from classic tax evasion, but even so, a legal course of action does not necessarily make it moral. it therefore encourages the commission to step up its efforts to tackle this problem and not to leave things to chance, as tax transparency is a key element in its solution. tax evasion and tax avoidance, together with corruption, account for the majority of member states' outstanding claims, as recognised by both parliament and the council. it is therefore important to adopt, and even more important to implement, effective measures to increase tax transparency in the area of taxation. the tax transparency package is a first step towards generating more revenue in the budget, which will open up the space to allocate these funds to tackle the economic and social problems in the eu, which are a priority at this time.
vice-president of the commission. – madam president, first of all, i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr landsbergis and the committee on international trade (inta) for their valuable work on this report and for expediting approval procedures. i would also like to thank the committee on foreign affairs (afet) for its contribution. as you know, the commission submitted its proposal for a macro-financial assistance operation for ukraine in the context of the enormous political and security challenges in ukraine, and a deteriorating economic situation. ukraine is confronted by deep recession: its currency has depreciated strongly, inflation has been rising and international reserves have been declining. this shows that the situation is very acute, and ukraine badly needs international financial assistance as soon as possible. indeed, international donors led by the imf have wrapped up a new financial aid package for ukraine, with the most recent imf extended fund facility, of 11 march 2015, amounting to usd 17.5 billion. the eu is also contributing with its current commission proposal for macro-financial assistance (mfa) of eur 1.8 billion in addition to the previous mfa operations of eur 1.6 billion in loans. it is intended that this mfa operation will be disbursed in three equal tranches, and this is going to be the highest amount of assistance ever disbursed to a third country in such a short period of time. of course, a new mfa operation will be subject to the fulfilment of conditions, namely political preconditions concerning respect for democratic mechanisms, human rights and the rule of law. moreover, ukraine must satisfactorily implement the imf programme and, last but not least, must fulfil economic and financial policy conditions to be agreed between the eu and ukraine in a memorandum of understanding. in this context, potential policy measures in the areas of public finance management, anti-corruption and transparency, the business environment, energy sector reform and financial sector reform are being explored and will be discussed with our ukrainian partners. i would stress that timing is of the essence here. ukraine’s most urgent and important financing needs are in 2015, and the first two of the three tranches under the newly proposed mfa operation should be disbursed this year – i.e. the first tranche before the summer break in mid-2015. contrary to its proposal for last year’s mfa operation of eur 1 billion, which was based on the urgency procedure, with a council decision as provided for in article 213 of the treaty, the commission has based the present proposal on article 212 of the treaty, which provides for a decision under the ordinary legislative procedure. the current commission proposal follows precisely established practice for mfa operations – practice also reflected in the joint declaration of parliament and the council of 12 august 2013 on granting mfa. in view of ukraine’s urgent financial needs, swift adoption of the current proposal by the co-legislators under the ordinary legislative procedure is very important. therefore, i am pleased that the international trade and foreign affairs committees upheld the commission proposal without amendments. i am also pleased that the council, through coreper, today agreed to adopt the commission’s proposal without amendments.
madam vice-president, i welcome and congratulate our rapporteur, mr landsbergis, and i thank commissioner dobrovskis for presenting this €1.8 billion macro-financial assistance package, another important contribution of the european union to the financial stability of ukraine. last week, we were a delegation of the committee on budgets, the committee on defense security and myself as the head of the delegation for ukraine in kiev. we have realized the very demanding and difficult situation of the stability of ukraine's public finances, which is because of the war costs, which is because of all the other economic and financial problems that the country is in at the moment. today's message is an important political message of solidarity, of the unity of the european union and of the desire to help a country whose budget is largely spent on war and defence, and therefore i consider that this 1.8 billion euros is an additional contribution to the continuity of our clear political support for ukraine in the difficult situation when it is faced with aggression by the russian federation.
madam president, i support the rapporteur's position that, without amendment and further delay, financial assistance should be provided as soon as possible to ukraine, whose economy will shrink by 6% this year. the national currency, the hryvnia, suffered the world's largest devaluation of 38% last year. a million people have been displaced, a million and a half live in difficult conditions in conflict areas, 20% of industrial potential cannot be used because it is in the occupied territory, and as many as 1 700 000 children have been affected by a crisis with no end in sight. it is estimated that the country needs at least 50 billion euros to recover. in this situation, the 1.8 billion euros we are discussing here is a modest but important contribution to ukraine's efforts to protect its population, which is threatened by a deterioration of the economic and social situation more than by aggression. the eu must pass the ukrainian exams because ukraine is a question of the future of the european project, a question of determining values more than geographical borders. ukraine is part of europe by both criteria and therefore deserves our full support!
written. the european commission's proposal to provide an additional eur 1.8 billion in macro-financial assistance to ukraine is important and crucial in several respects. ukraine is a country of strategic importance for the european union, but also for the countries of the same old continent, which are not members of the eu, for geopolitical reasons, and because of fragile political stability and currently extremely tense relations with russia. the european union has felt the effects of the ukrainian crisis on both the economic and social levels. the commission has also provided a comprehensive overview of the measures taken by the union to address the crisis in ukraine. i believe that the €1.8 billion mentioned goes towards supporting the european union and its bodies, initiating structural reforms and democratic processes to prevent further worsening of the long-standing economic recession and stagnation caused by various conflicts and occupations, and paving the way for real change. i also stress the fruitful effectiveness of a joint and coordinated approach in achieving a comprehensive assistance plan that can, indirectly, be a catalyst for mobilising additional financial resources. i believe that the macroeconomic financial assistance mechanism, which represents an exceptional response of the european union to similar crisis situations and is available to other eu partners, can contribute to the stability of the eastern european neighbourhood and accelerate the recovery process of ukraine.
written. i condemn in the strongest terms the terrible terrorist attack at the museum in tunis and express my condolences to the families of the 19 victims. it is an act that threatens the values of peace, tolerance and solidarity that the civilized world cherishes. in these circumstances, it is necessary to provide full support to the tunisian authorities and people in their fight against terrorism and all forms of radicalism. the difficult economic situation does not contribute to democratic stability and institution building, and the eu has a key role to play in this context. it is important that the eu sends a clear message that tunisians are not alone, and that they have friends who are ready to help them. the members of the parliamentary delegation for the maghreb countries are 'first among equals' who can help in this regard, expressing solidarity with the citizens of tunisia. also, an important component for tunisia's democratic and economic development is investing in the education of young tunisians, because they will be the force for economic recovery. by distributing eu funds equally, the european neighbourhood policy will contribute to peace and stability on its eastern and southern borders.
the question he raised by raising his blue card. mr president, i would like to ask the honourable member, when she is talking about the need to level the wages of those who transport goods, whether she thinks that perhaps we should level the wages of all doctors in the european union because they are surgeons, they treat us, they take care of us and maybe all doctors should have the same salary, which might be more important than those who do the hard work of transporting goods. we live in a different europe, we have different salaries, different standards. i'm not talking about social dumping, it's a problem of different standards.
madam president, as i understand it, you will give the floor to practically every group, i was the first to speak, that is true, but my colleague josé faria asks me to speak, so i would ask you kindly to speak for the alde group, josé faria, not me, because i see that we will not both get the floor.
madam president, jasenovac is another nazi camp where a great pogrom of roma was carried out and we must therefore speak clearly about the genocide that was committed in world war ii. sadly, prejudice, discrimination, intolerance, and racism are still common today. i want to bring here my experience as the man who ran istra for 12 years. i have a great experience with roma and we have managed to integrate roma very well, especially in the city of pula. what did we do? first, we always mark world roma day very publicly and very openly. secondly, in terms of education, we have created kindergartens for small roma children, where i once took them some brijuna mandarin cakes, which were a symbol of gifts in the former yugoslavia. third, we organized their sports societies. fourth, we've done a lot for their microeconomy. five, we have a special radio show that regularly features roma. sixth, they participate in all events where they nurture their cultural identity. we have a lot more to say, but i like to talk about positive examples. let's say this is a positive.
answer the question posed by raising the blue card. it is definitely clear that the european commission can also participate in the financing of these activities and i am aware that there are programmes where the european commission also finances various activities. but these specific things that i've been talking about, from education to cultural and sporting and other events, radio shows, microeconomics. these were mainly local sources from pula, the istrian region i was in charge of, and i think that local action is crucial for the good integration of the roma. our great efforts here and the conversations about it are necessary, but local action is crucial.
written. ‒ as greece has submitted a justified and complete application for a financial contribution from the egf following the redundancies of 928 workers in 16 enterprises in the nuts 2 region of attica, i support this decision.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution of the european parliament on the proposal for a decision of the parliament and of the council on the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund in favour of 928 greek workers made redundant in the attica region because of the extremely difficult situation in greece and the recession that has hit the greek economy for more than six years. in such cases, it is important to provide adequate assistance and support as quickly and effectively as possible in order to mitigate the effects of global structural changes. the attica region is the region with the highest unemployment rate in greece and the economic situation will be further aggravated by these redundancies. therefore, i consider that the financial support from the egf is of the utmost importance in order to reintegrate workers into the labour market as soon as possible and to stimulate the growth of entrepreneurship, and at the same time it demonstrates the solidarity of the european union.
written. ‒ the greek economy is still recovering from the effects of the crisis that has lasted for 6 years. the commission notes that the commission has not provided any information on the level of the measures in force. since 2008, thousands of companies have gone out of business, and their workers have ended up on the stock exchange. unemployment increased by 20,6% during the crisis. the greek authorities have submitted a request to mobilise the european globalisation adjustment fund to the amount of eur 5 million in order to help 928 redundant workers. the requested amount would be used to co-finance a project to help dismissed workers of 16 companies in the mass media sector. the aid package consists of a personalised career guidance service, training and self-employment subsidies to reintegrate workers into the labour market. i support the request to mobilise the egf given that greece, along with spain and portugal, is the member state with the highest unemployment rate in the european union, which is continuously increasing, and the data on personal consumption in times of crisis are worrying. analyses from 2012 show that 23% of greek citizens live below the poverty line, so personal spending fell by 32.3% during the crisis.
written. ‒ i support this request by the greek authorities for a financial contribution from the egf following the redundancies in 16 enterprises operating in the programme and television sector in the attica region of greece. with the greek economy in deep trouble for years, and in deep recession for the sixth year in a row, the government has taken unpopular measures to pay off the foreign debt, such as increasing tax revenues, rationalizing public spending, and cutting the salaries of public service workers. this has led to a decline in personal consumption and a decline in purchasing power. i therefore support this request, which concerns the care of 928 workers from 16 undertakings and which proposes to mobilise the egf to the amount of eur 5 046 000, representing 60% of the total cost of the proposed measures, in order to ensure a contribution to their implementation.
written. ‒ as the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) was established to provide support for workers made redundant and self-employed persons who have ceased their activity as a result of major structural changes in world trade patterns caused by globalisation, the prolonged global financial and economic crisis referred to in regulation (ec) no 546/2009 (3) or the new global financial and economic crisis, and to help them reintegrate into the labour market, i support the allocation of eur 5 046 000 in commitment and payment appropriations to partly finance redundancy losses in 16 enterprises falling under section 60 of the nace rev. 2 classification of programmes (issuance). member states should show solidarity with each other when necessary, and i am glad that they have shown this today by this example.
the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) was established to provide additional support to workers affected by the consequences of major structural changes in international trade and to help them reintegrate into the labour market and find a new job. at the same time, union financial assistance to workers made redundant should be dynamic and available as quickly and efficiently as possible. the greek authorities submitted an application for a financial contribution from the egf in respect of the project egf/2014/018 gr/attica broadcasting following the redundancies of 928 workers in 16 enterprises in the broadcasting sector. according to the greek authorities, the economy has been in a deep recession for the last six years (2008 to 2013), and according to elstat, the greek statistical body, since 2008 greek gdp has decreased by 25,7 percentage points; public consumption by 21 percentage points and private consumption by 32,3 percentage points, while unemployment has increased by 20,6 percentage points. the commission notes that the greek authorities have not provided any evidence that the restructuring plan is in line with the restructuring plan. i therefore support the report of rapporteur georgios kyrtsos on the mobilisation of eur 5 046 000, representing 60% of the total cost, as the objective is to help displaced workers to train and re-qualify for new jobs.
written. ‒ i support this resolution as greece has submitted an application egf/2014/018 gr/attica broadcasting for a financial contribution from the european globalisation adjustment fund following the redundancies of 928 workers in 16 enterprises operating under nace rev. 2 division 60 (broadcasting) in the nuts 2 region of attica (el 30) attica broadcasting in greece. i welcome the fact that all eligible redundant workers are expected to participate in measures supported by the egf and that greece is entitled to a financial contribution under the provisions.
written. as the european globalisation adjustment fund was established with the specific aim of providing support to displaced workers and self-employed persons affected by the major economic changes driven by globalisation, i agree with the report and welcome the decision to adopt the request of greece. greece has applied for egf funding following the redundancies of 928 workers in as many as 16 enterprises in the region of attica, which already has the highest overall number of unemployed compared to other regions in greece. it is positive to note that even before the decision to grant the egf, greece has taken the necessary steps to help workers and to provide them with vocational guidance, and this will be facilitated by these funds, it is also very positive that a significant amount of the funds will be directed to supporting start-ups in the form of self-employment incentives. i support the steps already taken and express the hope that such active measures will lead to sustainable, long-term employment which is an important factor in the recovery of any economy.
written. ‒ as the greek application meets the eligibility criteria set out in the egf regulation, i support the financial assistance of 705 redundant workers in 46 greek enterprises.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution of the european parliament on the proposal for a decision of the parliament and of the council on the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund in the case of attica publishing, as the financial contribution from the egf directly helps the economic situation of the greek region of attica, which is adversely affected by the 705 workers made redundant. the global financial and economic crisis has had a negative impact on the publishing sector and has further jeopardised the already difficult economic situation and unemployment rate of the region. in this context, i support the vocational guidance provided to redundant workers and tailor-made training and skills recognition programmes. it is important to create a stable and positive atmosphere that will be an incentive for job creation and economic growth, which is what the globalisation adjustment fund is striving for. i also believe that we must act as quickly and as efficiently as possible.
‒ the european globalisation adjustment fund was created to provide assistance to former employees in finding a new job, education or self-employment, who have lost their jobs as a result of globalisation and the financial and economic crisis. the greek authorities have submitted a request to mobilise the european globalisation adjustment fund to provide eur 3,7 million to assist former employees of 46 companies in the publishing sector in the attica region. the deep crisis in greece, which has been going on for six years, has led to the layoffs of a large number of workers and the closure of thousands of businesses in all sectors. the publishing sector has seen a 60 percent drop in sales between 2009 and 2013, as salary cuts resulting in reduced personal consumption have left citizens spending on only basic needs. the package to be co-financed by the egf is intended to provide targeted assistance to 705 eligible redundant workers. among them are as many as 576 persons in the 30 to 54 age group. i support this request to mobilise the european globalisation adjustment fund, given that in greece the unemployment rate has quadrupled during the crisis and is continuing to rise, and the attica region contributes 43% of greek gdp, and has a major impact on the entire greek economy.
written. ‒ due to the economic and financial problems in the region of attica linked to the world economic crisis, i support this request, which concerns the provision of 705 workers who are technological surplus in 46 enterprises. the egf should be mobilised in the amount of eur 3 746 700, representing 60% of the total cost of the proposed measures, in order to provide a financial contribution for their implementation. furthermore, i note that these redundancies will have a particularly adverse impact on the attica region which already has the highest number of unemployed in greece compared to the other 12 regions. i welcome the fact that all eligible redundant workers have been offered a multi-stage career guidance programme which will provide them with individual, personalised counselling and help to develop plans for their re-employment.
written. ‒ as the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) was established to provide support for workers made redundant and self-employed persons who have ceased their activity as a result of major structural changes in world trade patterns caused by globalisation, the prolonged global financial and economic crisis referred to in regulation (ec) no 546/2009 (3) or the new global financial and economic crisis, and to help them reintegrate into the labour market, i support the allocation of eur 3 746 700 in commitment and payment appropriations to partially finance redundancy losses in 46 enterprises operating under the nace revision 2 (export activities) division 58. member states need to show solidarity with each other when needed, and i am glad that they have shown that today by this example.
the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) was established to provide additional support to workers affected by the consequences of major structural changes in international trade and to help them reintegrate into the labour market and find a new job. at the same time, union financial assistance to workers made redundant should be dynamic and available as quickly and efficiently as possible. greece has submitted an application for a financial contribution from the egf in respect of redundancies in 46 enterprises in the publishing sector in the region of attica in greece, amounting to 705 workers. the commission notes that the greek authorities have not provided any evidence that the greek banks have been able to provide the necessary capital to cover the losses of the greek banks. the commission notes that the greek authorities have not provided any evidence that the restructuring plan is in line with the restructuring plan. therefore, i support the report of rapporteur lefteris christoforou on the mobilisation of eur 3 746 700, representing 60% of the total cost, as the objective is to help dismissed workers to train and re-qualify for new jobs.
written. ‒ i support this resolution as greece has submitted an application egf/2014/015 gr/attica publishing activities for a financial contribution from the european globalisation adjustment fund following the redundancies of 705 workers in 46 enterprises operating under nace rev. 2 division 58 (publishing activities) in the nuts 2 region of attica (el 30) in greece. as the application fulfils the eligibility criteria set out in the egf regulation, i welcome the fact that all eligible redundant workers are expected to participate in the measures supported by the egf and that greece is entitled to a financial contribution in accordance with the provisions.
written. i welcome the fact that the greek authorities have decided to start providing services that will be tailored to the workers before the egf funds are approved. the layoffs as a result of the pervasive crisis have caused both consumption cuts and layoffs in the publishing sectors as non-essential expenses are eliminated first. i welcome the fact that the redundant workers in attica will participate in the egf. it is important to introduce tailored training programmes with recognition of the skills and abilities acquired by the worker during his career. i welcome the fact that workers will be offered personalised advice on future employment. i want to stress that we should co-finance those measures that encourage long-term employment. for all the reasons stated above, i support this report.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the motion for a european parliament decision requesting the waiver of the immunity of mr antonio marinho e pinto because it allows mr marinho e pinto to prove in court the genuine merits of the accusation of alleged defamation by former officials of the portuguese bar association. however, i consider it necessary to ensure that the member is able to work unhindered in the european parliament.
written. ‒ i respect the recommendation of the rapporteur because, although the prosecution is not related to expressing an opinion or voting in the performance of his duties as a member of the european parliament within the meaning of article 8 of protocol no 7 on the privileges and immunities of the european union, and the alleged offence is clearly not related to the performance of the duties of mr zagorakis as a member of the european parliament but to his function as president of the portuguese bar association, there is no reason to assume that the prosecution was initiated with the intention of causing damage to the political representative concerned (fumus persecutionis) because it was initiated before mr pinto became a member of the european parliament.
written. ‒ i have supported the report by deputy kostas chrysogonos on the request for waiver of the immunity of deputy antoni marinho e pinto. parliamentary immunity is a legal instrument to protect the unimpeded functioning of members and thus constitutes a necessary means of safeguarding parliament's independence. in order to be credible, it is important that parliamentary immunity be an instrument of protection against politically motivated persecution only. in the case of mr antonio marinha e pinte, the committee on legal affairs found that it was not a criminal prosecution initiated with the intention of causing political damage to the member, as it had been initiated before he became a member of the european parliament. since the proceedings have nothing to do with the performance of the duties of mr antoni marinha e pinte as a member of the european parliament, i agree with the unanimous decision of the committee on legal affairs to waive immunity, as the legal remedy for the protection of citizens' representatives at the level of the european union must not place members of parliament above the law.
written. ‒ i supported the decision of the european parliament to waive the immunity of antónio marinho e pinto, forwarded on 8 october 2014 by dr. rodrigo pereira da costa, judge of the district court of coimbra (ref. 6076/12.0tdlsb), and published in plenary on 12 november 2014. a judge of the district court of coimbra has requested the waiver of the parliamentary immunity of the member of the european parliament, antónio marinho e pinto, in relation to possible legal proceedings for an alleged offence. the alleged acts are not connected with the expression of an opinion or the voting of members of the european parliament in the performance of their duties within the meaning of article 8 of protocol no 7 on the privileges and immunities of the european union.
written. ‒ given that on 8 october 2014 dr rodrigo pereira da costa, judge of the district court of coimbra, forwarded to the european parliament a request for the waiver of the parliamentary immunity of mr antónio marinho e pinto, member of the european parliament, in relation to the accusation of defamation of former officials of the portuguese bar association, i support the decision of the european parliament to waive the parliamentary immunity of my colleague, as i consider that it is in the spirit of the european union to show respect and good faith towards all legislative and judicial institutions, and i believe that in this way we also show confidence in the judicial systems of the member states.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the european parliament's motion for a resolution requesting the waiver of my immunity because it is the only way to enable me to face my accusers in court soon. it's important to investigate to the end and find out what's true, and congressional immunity is not a priority. it's the truth.
written. ‒ ireland has submitted an application to receive a financial contribution from the egf, following the redundancies of 424 workers at lufthansa technik airmotive ireland ltd. and two of its suppliers in ireland. the situation has a serious impact on employment in the region and on the local and regional economy. as the irish authorities will provide, in addition to 250 targeted beneficiaries, tailor-made services to be co-financed by the egf for up to 200 young people who are not in employment, education or training and are under 25 years of age on the date of application, i support this report.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution of the european parliament on the proposal for a decision of the parliament and of the council on the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund for the 424 redundancies of lufthansa technik airmotive ireland ltd and two suppliers, as those redundancies have a significant impact on the local and regional economy in the disadvantaged region of southern and eastern ireland. the structural changes affecting the sector 'repair and installation of machinery and equipment' require concrete measures in view of the fact that workers in this sector have specific skills that are not easily exploited in other sectors. i therefore support the financial contribution from the egf to mitigate the consequences of redundancies and aim at the speediest possible return of workers to the labour market.
written. ‒ last month, the european commission adopted a proposal for a decision to mobilise the european globalisation adjustment fund to provide €2.5 million to help irish nationals made redundant by lufthansa technik. the irish authorities argue that the closure of lufthansa technik is conditional on changes in world trade, technological change and the production of new generations of aircraft with countries such as india and china as the initiators. so did the parent company, lufthansa technik of germany, decide to move its plants to countries where labour is cheaper and where aviation technology is more innovative and developing faster. the number of people employed in this sector in ireland is currently only 1550 or 52% less than before these changes. the egf will be used to co-finance a package of personalised assistance for 424 redundant workers. they need help in finding new jobs, and for training and education or encouraging self-employment. the skills and knowledge of people employed in this sector are specific and it is harder for them to find a job because the same skills are not needed in other sectors. in view of the above, i support the request to mobilise the egf for former employees of the irish branch of lufthansa technik.
written. ‒ i support the request by the irish authorities to the egf for a financial contribution following the redundancies of lufthansa technik airmotive ireland ltd (ltai) and two of its suppliers in ireland, which concerns 424 workers and an amount of eur 2 490 758 representing 60% of the total cost of the proposed measures in order to ensure a financial contribution for their implementation. the commission considers that the aid is compatible with the internal market on the basis of article 107 (3) (c) of the treaty. i point out that workers in this sector have very specific skills that are difficult to use in other sectors, which makes it difficult for these workers to find new employment, especially for workers close to retirement (around 20% of workers). i welcome the fact that a harmonised package of services tailored to their needs has been developed in consultation with the targeted users, their representatives and trade unions.
written. ‒ given that the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) was established to provide support for workers made redundant and self-employed persons whose activity has ceased as a result of major structural changes in world trade patterns caused by globalisation, the prolonged global financial and economic crisis referred to in regulation (ec) no 546/2009 (3) or the new global financial and economic crisis, and to assist them with their reintegration into the labour market, i support the proposal to mobilise part of eur 2 490 758 for the request submitted by ireland to address the financial consequences of the redundancies in lufthansa technik airmotive ireland ltd and its two irish suppliers. member states need to show solidarity with each other when needed, and i am glad that they have shown that today by this example.
the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) was established to provide additional support to workers affected by the consequences of major structural changes in international trade and to help them reintegrate into the labour market and find a new job. at the same time, union financial assistance to workers made redundant should be dynamic and available as quickly and efficiently as possible. ireland submitted an application egf/2014/016 ie/lufthansa technik for a financial contribution from the egf, following the redundancies of 424 workers at lufthansa technik airmotive ireland ltd and two of its suppliers in ireland. although the application does not meet certain eligibility criteria, it falls under the category of exceptional circumstances, due to its serious impact on employment and the regional economy, which allows the use of the egf. the commission considers that the aid is compatible with the internal market on the basis of article 107 (3) (c) of the treaty. in addition, workers in the 'repair and installation of machinery and equipment' sector have very specific skills that are difficult to use in other sectors, which makes it difficult for these workers to find new employment. i therefore support the report by rapporteur victor negrescu on the mobilisation of eur 2 490 758 to help redundant workers to train for new jobs.
written. ‒ i support this resolution as ireland has submitted an application egf/2014/016 ie/lufthansa technik for a financial contribution from the european globalisation adjustment fund following the redundancies of 424 workers at lufthansa technik airmotive ireland ltd and two of its suppliers in ireland. as the application fulfils the eligibility criteria set out in the egf regulation, i welcome the fact that all eligible redundant workers are expected to participate in the measures supported by the egf and that ireland is entitled to a financial contribution under the provisions.
written. the closure of lufthansa technik airmotive ireland ltd, which is the result of a major change in trade in goods and services in the union due to the technological shift in production, has led to the dismissal of a large number of workers with very specific skills that are difficult to apply in other sectors. the commission notes that the commission has not provided any evidence that the irish branches of the irish branches of the cci have been able to obtain any advantage from the state. the commission notes that the aid granted to the beneficiaries was limited to the minimum necessary to cover the costs of the project. for these reasons, i support the report and the decision to allocate funds from the egf, and i welcome the initiative of ireland which decided that the harmonised package of services, which would be co-financed by the egf, would be used for professional guidance and support in career planning, implementation of training and secondary education programmes and contribution to the cost of courses not only for redundant workers but also for a target group of up to 200 young people under 25 years of age who are not necessarily from this sector. i see this as positive and proactive measures targeted at target groups for the sake of concrete progress not only for the sectors affected but for the economy in general.
written. ‒ i voted against the motion for a european parliament decision requesting the waiver of the immunity of mr victor uspaskic because the report submitted still contains doubts and uncertainties relating to a number of important issues. in addition, this prevents mr uspaskich from performing his duties as a member of parliament and restricts his personal freedom. i maintain that the waiver of a member's immunity must be based on concrete facts and thorough analysis.
written. ‒ i respect the recommendation of the rapporteur because, although the criminal prosecution is not related to expressing an opinion or voting in the exercise of his duties as a member of the european parliament within the meaning of article 8 of protocol no 7 on the privileges and immunities of the european union, and the alleged offence is clearly not related to the exercise of the duties of mr uspaskich as a member of the european parliament but to his earlier function in lithuania, there is no reason to assume that the prosecution was initiated with the intention of causing political damage to the member concerned (fumus persecutionis) because it was initiated before mr uspaskich became a member of the european parliament. in addition, the committee on legal affairs is not furthermore tasked with reviewing the judicial systems of the member states individually in the context of the immunity decision-making procedure.
written. ‒ i supported the report by the mp evelyne regner on the request for the waiver of the immunity of the mp viktor uspaskich. parliamentary immunity is a legal instrument to protect the unimpeded functioning of members and thus constitutes a necessary means of safeguarding parliament's independence. in order to be credible, it is important that parliamentary immunity be an instrument of protection against politically motivated persecution only. in the case of mr viktor uspaskich, the committee on legal affairs found that it was not a criminal prosecution initiated with the intention of causing political damage to the member, but that it was the same procedure that, following the invalid judgment of the vilnius regional court, is now being conducted before the court of appeal of lithuania (and the european parliament already decided in 2010 to lift the immunity of mr viktor uspaskich). as the procedure initiated has nothing to do with the performance of mr uspaskich's duties as a member of the european parliament, i agree with the decision of the committee on legal affairs to waive immunity, as the legal instrument for the protection of citizens' representatives at the level of the european union must not place members above the law.
written. ‒ i support the report on the request for waiver of immunity of viktor uspaskich because an invalid judgment has been passed against him by the vilnius regional court and the same procedure is now being conducted before the lithuanian court of appeal. as the charges against viktor uspaskih do not relate to his work as a member of the european parliament, article 8 of the protocol on the privileges and immunities of the european union does not apply to him.
written. ‒ following the judgment of the vilnius regional court of 12 july 2013 convicting viktor uspaskich for criminal acts of improper accounting, and following the decision of the european parliament of 7 september 2010 lifting the immunity of the member, i support the decision of the committee on legal affairs not to protect again the immunity and privileges of viktor uspaskich. the commission has not provided any evidence that the commission has taken the necessary measures to ensure that the immunity of the applicant has been waived.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the motion for a european parliament decision on the request for the protection of the privileges and immunities of gabriele albertini, confirming the previous decisions not to protect his privileges and immunities. in the case in point, there is no direct and obvious link between the opinion expressed and the performance of parliamentary duties which would allow the use of immunities under article 8 of the protocol on the privileges and immunities of the european union.
written. - i respect the recommendation of the rapporteur concerning the preservation of the immunity of my colleague albertini. the present case is, in any event, brought by reason of the opinion expressed by the member and since, in that context, the key criterion for the possibility of exercising immunity under article 8 of the said protocol is the proof of a direct and obvious link between the opinions in question and the performance of parliamentary duties. furthermore, since the doctrine of fumus persecutionis , that is to say, the sufficiently serious and precise suspicion that the case is brought with the intention of causing political damage to the member concerned applies only to cases of immunity covered by article 9 of the said protocol, that is to say, to judicial proceedings relating to offences other than those committed by reason of opinions expressed or votes cast pursuant to article 8 (6) of that protocol, and in view of the fact that mr albertini is a former member of the european parliament, article 9 no longer applies to this case.
written. ‒ i supported the report by mr andrzej dude on the request for the protection of the privileges and immunities of former member of the european parliament gabriele albertini. parliamentary immunity is a legal instrument to protect the unimpeded functioning of members and thus constitutes a necessary means of safeguarding parliament's independence. in order to be credible, it is important that parliamentary immunity be an instrument of protection against politically motivated persecution only. in the case of mr gabriele albertini, the committee on legal affairs has found that there is no criminal prosecution with the intention of causing political damage to the member. the case has been brought because of an opinion expressed by a member but in this context the key criterion for the possibility of exercising immunity must be proof of a direct and obvious link between the opinions expressed and the performance of parliamentary duties. no evidence of such a link has been provided in this case, on which parliament has already expressed its views on two previous occasions. since it has been established for the third time that the procedure initiated has nothing to do with the performance of gabriele albertini's duties as a member of the european parliament, i agree with the decision of the committee on legal affairs that privileges and immunities are not protected, since the legal remedy for the protection of citizens' representatives at the level of the european union must not place members of parliament above the law.
‒ former member of the european parliament gabriele albertini has applied for the protection of his parliamentary immunity in relation to criminal and civil proceedings pending before an italian court. the proceedings are being conducted in connection with alleged defamatory statements and statements by mr. albertini about alfred robled, the prosecutor who opened an investigation in a case involving the municipality of milan and with which albertini himself was associated. since mr albertini did not make the statements in question in his capacity as a member of the european parliament, i supported the committee's position that the privileges and immunities of mr gabriele albertini should not be protected in respect of the criminal proceedings brought against him.
written. ‒ i agree with the decision of the committee on legal affairs not to protect the privileges and immunities of mr gabriele albertini in respect of the criminal proceedings brought against him. the commission notes that the italian authorities have not provided any evidence that the italian authorities have been able to establish that the italian authorities have been misled by the allegations made by the italian authorities. since the documents subsequently submitted by mr albertini do not remove the doubt, i consider it appropriate to maintain the previous decision of parliament and not to grant mr albertini's request for a review of the civil proceedings brought against him.
written. ‒ ukraine's economy and finances are in a very bad state due to the war in the east of the country and the annexation of crimea by russia. but the fact is that the economic crisis is partly the result of corruption and the failure to reform in the prewar period. the economic collapse of the country must be avoided and that is why i support providing macro-financial assistance to ukraine. in addition to helping a country facing aggression, the european union owes a kind of help to show that it is able to act quickly and meet its political obligations.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the draft legislative resolution of the european parliament on the proposal for a decision of the parliament and of the council providing macro-financial assistance to ukraine because of the serious structural problems in ukraine, coupled with the difficult, problematic situation in the eastern parts of the country caused by the conflict with russia. the economic recession in ukraine is adversely affecting the reforms initiated with the aim of contributing to stability and security in the region. i therefore support the european union's macro-financial assistance to ukraine as a close strategic partner that will surely advance economic and social reforms in that country. this will also contribute to the stabilisation of the eastern european neighbourhood and it is necessary to establish, together with the ukrainian authorities, a structured programme and guidelines that will strengthen the democratic changes under way and build confidence in them.
written. ‒ i support the report of the landsbergis representative, which was drafted on the basis of the commission's recommendation for additional macro-financial assistance to ukraine of eur 1,8 billion. the crisis, which affected the whole of europe, also left a deep mark on ukraine. the crisis is further complicated by the armed conflicts in their territory over the past year. in addition, the former president of the republic of moldova has been responsible for the repression of the ukrainian people in the so-called 'donetsk people's republic'. the new government began to implement reforms to stabilize the political situation, financial reforms and the fight against corruption, as well as reforms of the tax system and the energy sector. the european union has allocated eur 11 billion in financial assistance to ukraine over the past two years, and this macro-financial package aims to help implement structural reforms and create budgetary stability in ukraine and to help with the consequences of the armed conflict. it is important to respond quickly to the crisis in ukraine and to provide financial and other assistance as soon as possible in order to make it easier and more effective for the newly elected ukrainian government to implement the necessary reforms and to become both a free state and to meet the expectations of the accession agreement with the european union.
written. ‒ this proposal for macro-financial assistance to ukraine aims to further strengthen the eu's ties with ukraine and to support it in the fight against russian aggression and in the implementation of economic reforms. the commission is therefore proposing to provide an additional eur 1.8 billion to support ukraine in the face of a difficult economic situation rooted in long-standing structural problems and exacerbated by the conflict in the east. the budget allocation of eur 1,2 billion is expected to be implemented in 2015. the european union and parliament's commitment to the reform process in ukraine will support ukraine's legitimate leadership and facilitate ukraine's coping with the balance of payments crisis that threatens the country's financial stability. the european union should also explore other ways of assisting ukraine, such as facilitating the recovery of funds illegally transferred to eu countries by former ukrainian political leaders, supporting ukraine's efforts to fight corruption, establishing a joint investigative body to monitor the european union's financial assistance to ukraine, composed of ukrainian officials and eu anti-corruption experts.
written. ‒ i fully support the approval of macro-financial assistance to ukraine, without amendments and additional delays, given the extremely severe financial crisis in which ukraine is found, which military aggression only further aggravates. a million people have been displaced, a million and a half live in difficult conditions in conflict areas, 20% of industrial potential cannot be used because it is in the occupied territory, and as many as 1 700 000 children have been affected by a crisis with no end in sight. the economy will shrink by 6% this year. the national currency, the hryvnia, suffered the world's largest devaluation of 38% last year. it is estimated that the country needs at least 50 billion euros to recover. in such a situation, the 1.8 billion euros we are discussing here is a modest but important contribution to ukraine's efforts to protect its population, which is threatened by a deterioration of the economic and social situation more than by military aggression. the eu must pass the ukrainian exams because ukraine is a question of the future of the european project, a question of determining values more than geographical borders. ukraine is part of europe on both counts and therefore deserves our full support.
the ukrainian economy is undergoing a serious crisis rooted in long-standing structural problems, which are aggravated by the armed conflict in the east of the country and the illegal annexation of crimea by russia. after the new government took office in february 2014, its programme launched an ambitious macroeconomic adjustment and structural reforms supported by an imf financial assistance programme and two eu macro-financial assistance packages. in its latest resolution of 15 january 2015 on the situation in ukraine, the european parliament welcomed the commission's proposal to extend assistance to an additional eur 1,8 billion. the european parliament has called for the development of an assistance plan for ukraine in the form of macro-financial assistance. the commission proposal also builds on the european council conclusions of 18 december 2014 calling on the eu and its member states to be ready to further facilitate and support ukraine's reform process, of course all in line with imf rules. in line with all of the above, i support the proposal to provide macro-financial assistance to ukraine.
written. ‒ i welcome this report and the automatic exchange of information agreement. i hope that its implementation will start relatively soon. it is estimated that billions of euros are lost each year in the eu through tax fraud and tax evasion. such a loss is a major threat to the efficiency and fairness of the eu's tax systems, as it increases the tax burden on all citizens and businesses who pay their taxes honestly. the common approach can succeed in combating tax fraud, tax evasion, tax avoidance, aggressive tax planning and tax havens and improve the framework for the proper functioning of the single market through effective tax legislation.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution of the european parliament on the annual report on taxation because i believe that coordinated action and a common approach are needed at european union level to prevent tax fraud and evasion and to strengthen the principle of transparency, which is also an objective of international tax policies. it is necessary to establish an effective mechanism to address shortcomings in vat revenue, to manage tax matters in third countries in a responsible manner and to ensure the proper functioning of national tax authorities. in this context, i strongly support the fight against aggressive tax planning and tax havens with the aim of steering economic policy towards growth and achieving tax compliance.
written. ‒ according to the european commission, €1 trillion of revenue is lost every year in the european union through tax avoidance, tax fraud and aggressive tax planning. the loss of these revenues leaves member states with less resources to invest in order to stimulate economic growth, development and employment, and leaves the european union with less resources needed to further develop and create the latest initiatives, such as the capital markets union, the single european energy market, the digital single market. i supported this report because i believe that better implementation of tax rules and cooperation between member states is needed to prevent aggressive tax planning, tax avoidance and tax fraud, while creating a favourable business environment for companies and reducing the additional burden for all citizens who pay their taxes honestly.
written. ‒ i support this report and consider it realistic and designed to bring order to the tax policies and systems of the member states individually and at union level. it is necessary to take legal and illegal actions to increase public revenues, restore confidence in the fairness of our tax systems and reduce the burden on honest taxpayers. coordinated action at eu level and a common approach can contribute to success in the fight against tax fraud, tax evasion, tax avoidance, aggressive tax planning and tax havens and improve the framework for the proper functioning of the single market through effective tax legislation. the commission should also be able to assess the impact of the taxation of goods and services on the tax base of the member states, in particular on the tax base of the member states, and on the tax base of the member states. i find unacceptable the secret tax-exemption agreements signed by certain member states and certain multinational companies with the aim of attracting companies and the very position that taxes must be paid where public services are used.
written. ‒ i support the report of my colleague, ms kaila, and congratulate her on her excellent work. it is estimated that €1 trillion is lost each year in the eu through tax fraud and tax avoidance, and this loss is undeniably a major threat to the efficiency and fairness of the eu tax systems, as it increases the tax burden on all honest citizens and businesses. in particular, i agree with the call for a fundamental revision of the european system of own resources and the positions that the allocation of more own resources in a way that does not affect the budget should allow the commission to be more effective and independent and result in a more transparent european budget. i also agree with the call on the commission to report to the council and parliament once a year on the work and successes of the platform for good tax governance. we need to act together because only a common approach can succeed in combating tax fraud, tax evasion, tax avoidance, aggressive tax planning and tax havens and improve the framework for the proper functioning of the single market through effective tax legislation. the loss of tax revenue means that less public money is available for investment, which means that less additional private investment can be stimulated in a period in which the commission's stated objectives focus on jobs, growth and investment. that's something we can't afford to do in times of financial crisis.
written. ‒ i support the report by mep eve kaili on the annual tax report, as i believe that the agreement on the automatic exchange of information will make a major contribution to the prevention of tax fraud and tax evasion, which cause about eur 1 billion in losses every year. the commission should also be able to use the information provided by the member states to assess the impact of the proposed measures on the tax base of taxpayers. the active involvement of the european commission in the formulation of concrete proposals for the creation of a legislative framework will make it possible to reduce tax disparities by 2020 and to remove tax obstacles that hamper cross-border activities. concerned that in 2012 €177 billion of vat revenue was lost due to non-compliance and non-payment, i justify the efforts to harmonise the automatic exchange of data systems and welcome the agreements reached in the anti-money laundering trialogue. the uniform application of these rules throughout the union will result in increased transparency of the system, tax revenues and investment funds. the multiple benefits will be felt by all member states, including croatia.
written. ‒ i supported the annual tax report and its common approach to the tax policy of the european union because it proposes measures that are necessary to establish effective tax legislation. the automatic exchange of information and the single register are a necessary basis for the start of the harmonisation of the tax policies of the member states and for better cooperation at european level. by implementing additional measures, we will put an end to banking secrecy and establish a transparent and predictable framework for our companies to be more competitive at european level. i would like to stress the important call to the member states in this report for the need to establish as soon as possible a common consolidated tax base which would be mandatory for european companies in the first phase and for all other companies except micro, small and medium-sized enterprises in the second phase. this report, among other solutions to tackle fiscal dumping, proposes innovation and a shift to an environmental tax, which i strongly welcome, as it recognises the potential of the environment to grow the economy and create new jobs.
written. ‒ i supported the annual tax report because it clearly highlights the fact that the fight against tax fraud, tax evasion, aggressive tax planning and tax havens is achieved precisely by a single approach and common tax policy measures of the eu member states. targeted tax policy measures are necessary to ensure that they promote the single market and that the maintenance of fair and transparent tax competition between member states is conducive to growth and employment. increased tax policy convergence ensures that member states' tax policies support the eu's broader policy objectives, and promoting achievable tax convergence is a tool for long-term growth-oriented economic policy.
written. i welcome the agreement on the automatic exchange of information and the possibility of its swift implementation and call for the final abolition of banking secrecy in the eu as of june 2015. the general principle that taxes are paid where public services are used must be upheld, and i strongly condemn aggressive tax policies that encourage taxpayers to move their tax bases outside the countries where they use public services or the labour force that does so. i underline the fact that a common approach can succeed in combating tax fraud, tax evasion, tax avoidance, aggressive tax planning and tax havens and improve the framework for the proper functioning of the single market through effective tax legislation at global and european level. i stress the key role that smes play as drivers of growth and jobs in the eu. the commission should also be able to assess the impact of the new rules on the taxation of smes, in particular the impact of the new rules on the taxation of smes.
the question he raised by raising his blue card. i would like to thank the honourable member for accepting the blue card and i would also like to ask him, since he is clearly against cohesion policy and funding from these funds and considers it unnecessary, whether he is aware of the fact that in many countries today it is cohesion policy money that constitutes the bulk of investment and is practically involved in what it means to solve the financial and economic crisis in those countries. is he aware of these facts?
mr president, i welcome the commission's announcement that it will be an active partner and cooperate with the national authorities using all available measures with the aim of adopting the programme as soon as possible after the adoption of this amended council regulation establishing the multiannual financial framework for the period 2014 to 2020. the resources to be carried over to 2015 for economic, social and territorial cohesion and sustainable growth and natural resources should certainly be spent for that purpose and i hope that there will be no change in the multiannual financial framework to reallocate those resources for other purposes. i consider this proposal for a revision of the regulation to be very encouraging for the continuation of work in the field of rural development, as some member states still do not have an approved rural development programme and have therefore not been able to use the european agricultural fund for rural development. the survival of villages across europe depends on this money because if we want people to stay in the countryside we have to provide them with adequate social, social and communal infrastructure and self-employment through agriculture, rural tourism and other activities that can take place in the countryside and provide income to the rural population.
mr president, although this appears to be a simple technical issue, a legal change, it is really a crucial political decision. what is the key policy decision? this is a question of the credibility of the european union. we cannot afford to be in this situation where we have 21 billion pledged funds, committed funds, and unpaid funds for months and years. it is those who believe most in the european union, who often run for these funds, who lose faith in what we do. so i am in favour of everything that has been said by my predecessors, and i am particularly in favour, as a man with experience who has worked on more than 200 or 300 european programmes, of simplifying the procedure within the european union for obtaining funds. it is absolutely necessary.
mr. president, as we have heard, this resolution is not a condemnation. this resolution is not against anyone. this resolution is a vote of confidence. an appeal to turkey to recognize the grave genocide that occurred in 1915. this resolution is a tribute and therefore there is no way these two countries, and especially turkey, can remain trapped in the past. we are asking for the zurich protocol to be ratified. also, the name is clear, genocide is defined by the 1948 convention and there is no doubt about the name. we want to encourage turkey today to acknowledge the genocide. it's not about interpreting the past. it's about commemorating the victims. the resolution also calls for them to be seen as a successful example of the trust of the european peoples and that is why i think this is a good point in the resolution. i appreciate what the epp representative mr brock and the socialist representative, both germans, have said, because great nations have always had and have the strength to face the past and to acknowledge their sins and that is why turkey should open a new page of its future today.
mr. president, pope francis this week called the massacre of some 1.5 million armenians the first genocide of the 20th century. that's my view, because the armenian genocide was a systematic extermination that happened during world war i, and it started 100 years ago with the murder of 50 armenian intellectuals and members of their committees. armenians in the ottoman army were disarmed and killed, and armenian property was confiscated. the turks deported women, children, the elderly and the infirm and sent them on death marches in the syrian desert. turkish soldiers raped, tortured, and eventually crucified several thousand armenian women. it is estimated that about 2 million armenians were deported, and about 1.5 million armenians were deliberately and systematically killed in the first genocide of the modern world. the turks also killed numerous syrian christians, greeks, and other national minorities. i believe that turkey must recognize the armenian genocide and in the spirit of reconciliation show openness to debate. no one can do it for them. only then can the past be faced and partnership between the two countries be developed.
the motion for a resolution on the 100th anniversary of the armenian genocide contains several strong messages which i would like to stress in particular: firstly, we want to make it clear that the great tragedies of the european peoples in our tragic and bloody history cannot be forgotten; secondly, the call for the establishment of an international day of genocide remembrance must be implemented and marked in order to give a lasting warning of the great tragedy that has occurred; thirdly, i consider it extremely important that both the president and the prime minister of the republic of turkey have expressed their regret for the events of 100 years ago; fourthly, the announcement that all perpetrators will be punished and the impossibility of obsolescence of crimes against humanity is of particular importance; fifthly, the call for turkey and armenia to commit themselves to this comprehensive approach in the spirit of european friendship and solidarity is a major contribution to the future of relations between many european countries.
madam president, madam commissioner, i think what you have said is a good step forward. however, what i want to point out is that there are very different practices in europe and very different formal, legislative practices when we talk about employing people with disabilities. what is still somewhat small and surprising is that the european institutions are not leaders in this. and that's what i think we need to talk about today because it's the european institutions that i believe deeply should be the leaders in terms of how to put the formal employment of people with disabilities in the european institutions. there are very good examples, the examples just mentioned from germany. we can also boast in croatia that we have good examples, good laws and in some areas, good practice. regardless of the fact that we have a lot of problems in our country, but the way that it's been approached formally, the legal employment of people with disabilities is a good way. it's directly about necessity and punishment, of course, but also about rewarding private entrepreneurs in that sense. so what i would like to emphasize is that quotas are, for me personally, a transitional solution. it's better to have quotas than not to have them, but what would make the most sense is to have fair competition, and that's why i think we should have fair competition without prejudice and without thinking about whether a person has a disability or not, but whether they have knowledge or lack knowledge.
madam president, unlike the members of various minorities whom some politicians try to put in the category of vulnerable groups and to provide them with a better status in exchange for votes in elections, i do consider people with disabilities to be the most vulnerable group and i believe that as responsible societies we must pay attention to them. however, i consider the employment of these people over quota to be an affront to their dignity, especially when it comes to jobs in the institutions of the european union. will the european institutions have to ensure that disabled people are employed by law? and isn't this where we should start to spread awareness that people with disabilities are equal members of society who should be judged on their competence, not their physical impairment? i believe that they themselves would be much more willing to get a job in competition with all the other applicants because they would prove that they were not special because of physical disabilities, but because of exceptional knowledge and ability.
written. article 27 of the un convention on the rights of persons with disabilities, to which the eu is a signatory, states that states parties recognize the right of persons with disabilities to work, which includes the right to earn a living from work, and highlights, among other objectives, the employment of persons with disabilities in the public sector. i wonder if the european commission plans to encourage the employment of people with disabilities in the eu institutions in order to demonstrate by example its strong commitment to removing obstacles to greater employment of people with disabilities as called for in the european disability strategy 2010-2020? the commission should also be able to provide information on the impact of the union's policies on the health of people with disabilities. the reduction of poverty is one of the objectives of the strategy, and it is for people with disabilities that the poverty rate is 70% higher than the average, partly due to limited access to employment. the commission should also be able to provide the necessary information to the member states and the commission on the implementation of the union's policy on employment and social inclusion.
written. the integration of persons with disabilities represents one of the greatest challenges of social and labour policy and should be one of the priorities in european labour legislation in order to reinforce the generally accepted principles of respecting diversity, providing equal opportunities and encouraging the personal development of each individual. i believe that by setting these quotas for the eu institutions, we will be able to demonstrate by our own example how the recognition of disability in employment is a practice aimed at determining the social status of an individual and his identity during the period in which he belongs to the workforce. while such quotas may appear to be in conflict with the principle of equal treatment in the labour market and to encourage positive discrimination against persons with disabilities, they should constitute a guarantee of equal opportunities and full participation in economic, cultural and social life and as such be a permissible level of derogation in anti-discrimination law. the recent expansion of the public sector to the private sector in croatia has been welcomed with great public approval and i am convinced that this step by the commission towards greater respect for persons with disabilities will have the same effect. the commission has clearly demonstrated its will and determination to promote important international instruments for the protection and promotion of the rights of persons with disabilities and therefore deserves our support.
written. it is a sobering fact that in the 21st century, the poverty rate of people with disabilities is 70 per cent higher than the average, largely due to limited access to employment. the situation was bad before, but it got much worse during the economic crisis. today, there are more than 80 million people with disabilities in the european union who are at risk of becoming a socially marginalised group, that is, of social exclusion and discrimination, despite the many global efforts to avoid this. there are over 520,000 of them in croatia, and women with disabilities are a particularly vulnerable group. in view of the above, it is important that the european disability strategy 2010-2020 is fully implemented and that the legally determined quota for the social inclusion and employment of disabled people, both in the public and private sectors, is respected in all eu member states. i welcome the commission's proposal to call on the member states of the union to make further efforts to fully implement the disability strategy 2010-2020 so that people with disabilities can finally fully enjoy their human rights. the european union is a leader in many areas and i see no reason why it should not be in protecting the rights of people with disabilities.
mr. president, mr. commissioner, we are asking for the protection of the privacy of european union citizens. no one else can decide that, but in this case, the court will. we also seek to protect our economy. i wonder, commissioner, whether europe really has any levers and any means of responding to such blackmail. maybe there's something else to say. maybe the world is changing, too. perhaps it should be the european union, which has brought 28 countries together, that should initiate new processes when we talk about these issues and these values. i think that your role and the commission's role and the role of the european union in this context is extremely important in this world which is clearly changing every day.
european tourism accounts for 10% of the gdp of the european economy. the 1.8 million businesses in europe today employ a huge number of our fellow citizens who make their living from tourism. but tourism is not present enough in this house, it's not present enough in the documents that we get from the european commission. there are a number of examples of this, one of which is the recent debate on the so-called juncker fund and the financing of tourism from it. europe today accounts for 52% of world tourism. a destination where 52% of tourists come, and by 2030 it's expected to be only 41%. we must therefore institutionalize tourism as an economic sector which will also have its own appropriate bodies at the level of the european union.
mr president, yesterday the european commission approved, for the first time, the geographical indication for a croatian product krki pršut , placing it on the list of 629 products protected by this indication. this is a road map for small producers in croatia who, without adequate protection of their products, cannot participate on an equal footing in the european common market with their products of unquestionable quality and geographical origin. unfortunately, the existing protection system has left european producers of non-agricultural products out of the picture. you are only protected at national level by legal frameworks that are not harmonised between member states. lace, or the marriage stone, and carving, for example, are just some of the products that deserve better protection. the extension of the protection of geographical indications to non-agricultural products would increase their recognition and sales, but would also protect consumers by providing more transparent information on the products they buy. i hope the commission will take these arguments into account.
written. ‒ france has submitted an application for a financial contribution from the egf, following the redundancies of 2513 workers at mory-ducros sas. the layoffs affect workers at 84 plants across france. since the request meets the criteria, i support this decision.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the european parliament resolution on the proposal for a decision of the parliament and of the council on the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund to help the 2513 workers made redundant by the french company mory-ducros sas, as the financial contribution in question seeks to prevent long-term unemployment and social exclusion. it is important to ensure that support for workers in these cases is available as quickly as possible and is more dynamic in order to help them reintegrate into the labour market as quickly as possible. in addition, it is important to take into account older age groups of workers who are at higher risk of unemployment and to support services tailored to the needs of workers that further mitigate the negative consequences of major structural changes.
written. ‒ i support the request by the french authorities to the egf for a financial contribution following the redundancies in mory-ducros sas, which concerns 2 513 workers and the amount of eur 6 052 200 representing 60% of the total cost of the proposed measures in order to ensure a financial contribution for their implementation. the commission notes that the french authorities have not provided any evidence that the aid is compatible with the internal market. i would point out that workers in this sector have very specific skills that are difficult to use in other sectors, which makes it difficult for these workers to find new employment, especially for older workers who are close to retirement. i welcome the fact that a harmonised package of services tailored to their needs has been developed in consultation with the targeted users, their representatives and trade unions.
written. ‒ as the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) was established to provide support for workers made redundant and self-employed persons who have ceased their activity as a result of major structural changes in world trade patterns caused by globalisation, the prolonged global financial and economic crisis referred to in regulation (ec) no 546/2009 (3) or the new global financial and economic crisis, and to help them reintegrate into the labour market, i support the allocation of eur 6 052 200 in commitment appropriations and payment appropriations to partially finance the losses incurred in connection with the redundancies in the m-ducros sas subsidiary. member states should show solidarity with each other when needed and i am glad that they have shown this today by this example.
the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) was established to provide additional support to workers affected by the consequences of major structural changes in international trade and to help them reintegrate into the labour market and find a new job. at the same time, union financial assistance to workers made redundant should be dynamic and available as quickly and efficiently as possible. france submitted an application for a financial contribution from the egf following the redundancies affecting 2 513 workers in mory-ducros sas, a company active in the land transport and pipeline transport sector, at 84 sites throughout france. the report states that the redundancies in mory-ducros sas are linked to the general decline in the production of tangible goods in europe, which was caused by a reduction in the volume of goods to be transported and the start of price competition in the road transport sector, which led to a continuous fall in operating margins and a series of losses in that sector in france since 2007. with a view to helping redundant workers to be trained and re-qualified for new jobs, i support the report by rapporteur jean-paul denanota on the mobilisation of eur 6 052 200 representing 60% of the total cost.
written. the french authorities have applied for a financial contribution from the egf following redundancies at mory-ducros sas in france. the commission notes that the commission has not provided any information on the amount of the aid granted to mory-ducros. these services are available in france and abroad. in the light of the global financial crisis, war and bankruptcy of the road haulage sector, the commission proposes to mobilise the egf in the amount of eur 6 052 200 to help workers who have become redundant and whose need to work has ceased. i therefore support this report.
written. ‒ i support this decision because it aligns the text of the decision with the eu's socioeconomic priorities. i particularly support the changes to the text relating to the concept of universal health care. in its conclusions of june 2013, the european council stated the need to strengthen the social dimension of the european monetary union. to begin with, it is important to better monitor and take account of the social and labour market situation within emu, in particular by using the relevant social and employment indicators within the european semester. it is also important to ensure better coordination of employment, social and socio-economic policies, while fully respecting national competences.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the draft legislative resolution of the european parliament on the draft council decision establishing a social security committee and repealing decision 2004/689/ec as strengthening, modernising and improving cooperation in the field of social security. i believe that this can contribute to improving social and employment policies, which are of particular importance and sensitivity for the european union, while respecting individual national competences. i support that this enables the committee, which has an advisory role, to monitor the social situation and the development of social security policies, to exchange good practices and information and to prepare reports and opinions in the field concerned. i also strongly support the need for the committee to work closely with the social partners.
written. ‒ i supported the report on the draft council decision establishing a social security committee because the social security committee, established by council decision 2000/436/ec as amended by decision 2004/689/ec, has so far proved to be a useful advisory body of the council and the european commission and has actively contributed to the development of open methods of cooperation. the social security committee now takes on a new dimension in the coordination of economic, employment and social protection policies among member states by monitoring the social situation and the development of social protection policy and by promoting the exchange of experience, information and good practice among member states. in cooperation with the social partners and other relevant bodies and committees active in the field of social and economic policies, and using agreed methods of monitoring and coordination, the implementation of the pre-agreed objectives can be achieved. the equality of the members is achieved by the very structure of the committee, since each member state and the commission will appoint two members of the committee.
written. ‒ i support the report by ms ulvsky and the draft council decision establishing the social security committee and repealing decision 2004/689/ec. the establishment and financing of social security is a member state responsibility and the four basic general objectives, also identified by the european commission in the context of the general challenge of modernising social security systems, should be: to make work pay and income secure, to achieve pension security and sustainability of pension systems, to promote social inclusion, to ensure high quality and sustainability of healthcare for all. i agree with the view that in all activities aimed at achieving these four objectives, there is a need to implement gender equality alignment.
written. ‒ i supported the report by mep marita ulvsky on the draft council decision establishing a social security committee and repealing decision 2004/689/ec because i believe that the social dimension of economic and monetary union needs to be strengthened, in particular through better coordination and monitoring of employment and social dialogue policies. since the beginning of the european project, economic integration, and its important social dimension, has had a positive impact on growth, employment and the living standards of citizens. in the current context, this decision underlines the importance of more effective monitoring of the social and labour market situation, taking into account the relevant social and employment indicators in the framework of the european semester. the european semester for economic policy coordination is a joint process between the eu institutions and the member states in which the european parliament has an important role to play. i believe that this decision gives a new impetus to social dialogue at european union and national levels, to ensure better coordination of social policy and to improve the effectiveness of social protection systems, while fully respecting national competences. given that the internal market has contributed to europe's social progress in recent decades, i believe that the establishment of the social security board contributes to the achievement of the social objectives set by the european union.
written. given the high unemployment rate, gender inequality, and the wide disparity in standards within member states, there is a need to work on strengthening the social security system, which is essential for the further development and modernisation of an active and dynamic social policy in europe. the only way to reduce disparities within the eu is through cooperation between member states covering all forms of social security and exchanging experiences. it is therefore necessary to set up an enhanced cooperation mechanism to be worked on by a group of senior officials to help member states to improve and strengthen their social security systems in line with national priorities. in the implementation of social policy, member states are responsible for the organisation and financing of social security. the main objectives identified by the commission in the context of the general challenge of modernising social security systems are: making work pay and income secure, achieving pension security and sustainability of pension systems, promoting social inclusion, ensuring high quality and sustainability of healthcare.
written. ‒ i supported the decision to establish a social security committee and to repeal decision 2004/689/ec because i consider that this is necessary for the committee to fulfil its purpose as an advisory body promoting cooperation between the member states and the commission in the field of social protection policies. the quality of the functioning of this committee requires that it be in line with the annual growth review and i believe that the council has quality-wise revised the provisions relating to the functioning of the social security committee in order to ensure its effectiveness and continuity with the european semester cycle. the changes proposed by the council should ensure that those objectives are achieved in order to improve and strengthen the social protection system in accordance with the national priorities of the member states by this committee, composed of two experts from each member state and two representatives of the commission.
written. ‒ i voted for the draft council decision establishing the employment committee and repealing decision 2000/98/ec because i support the creation of a coordinated employment strategy that should raise employment rates within the european union in order to stimulate inclusive growth. most european countries have been hit hard by high unemployment rates, which have severely affected the labour market. it is important to ensure the promotion of current synergies between member states in the field of market and employment policies. in this context, the cooperation of the committee with other committees and relevant bodies is important. although advisory, the role of the committee in question can certainly be one of the factors that will contribute to achieving positive results in the context of employment policies.
written. ‒ i supported the report on the draft council decision establishing an employment advisory committee to contribute to the formulation and implementation of the european employment strategy, macroeconomic policies and the economic reform process. the employment committee will actively participate in the macroeconomic dialogue at union level, contribute to all aspects of the european semester, promote the adoption of broad economic guidelines and exchange of experience between member states in promoting the objective of high employment by making use of union activities and policies. the equality of the members is achieved by the very structure of the committee, since each member state and the commission will appoint two members of the committee. through cooperation with the social partners and other committees dealing with social and economic policy issues, better cooperation and coordination in employment will be achieved across the union.
written. ‒ i support the report by ms ulvsky on the adoption of the draft council decision establishing the employment committee and repealing decision 2000/98/ec. since this is a special legislative procedure for consultation, i think it is important to stress that the council should be consulted again with parliament if it intends to make substantial changes to a text adopted by parliament.
written. ‒ i supported the report by mep marita ulvsky on the draft council decision establishing the employment committee and repealing decision 2000/98/ec because i believe that there is a need to strengthen coordination of employment and labour market policies between member states. member states have a primary role in implementing employment policy, including youth employment policy, but the treaty on the functioning of the eu provides for the establishment of an employment committee with advisory status and a role to promote coordination between member states, for good reason. while employment policies are the responsibility of the member states, it is important to have an eu-level body to monitor employment indicators and monitor the state of employment and employment policies in the eu. i believe that the committee's work will certainly enhance the exchange of experience between member states and make a major contribution to defining common objectives. the synergy with the new social security committee is important for the collective success of the european union, the member states, citizens, businesses and social partners in the fight against unemployment and poverty, precisely because of the close link between the themes of employment and social protection. strengthening the social dimension of economic and monetary union is possible in particular through better coordination and monitoring of employment policies and social dialogue, which is a fundamental task of this committee.
article 5 (tfeu) of the european union to harmonise the employment strategy and to establish uniform recruitment procedures in all member states. the committee would seek to promote a trained and skilled workforce that is competitive and representative in the market and readily adaptable to global economic changes. the tfeu advocates the establishment of an employment committee to seek to establish a sustainable european employment strategy. the main objective is to establish a macroeconomic policy that will implement economic reforms and subsequently implement them in a sustainable manner. the main role of the committee would be to monitor the recruitment process as well as the implementation of the recruitment policy itself within the eu countries. the ultimate objective is to achieve a high level of employment within the european union and thus to strengthen the economic and social situation within all member states so that europe can ultimately be economically competitive on the global market. the commission should also be able to provide the necessary information to the member states and the commission in order to ensure that the union's macro-financial assistance is used effectively.
written. ‒ i supported the decision to set up the employment committee and to repeal decision 2000/98/ec in order to ensure that the work of this committee fulfils its purpose of promoting cooperation between member states in employment policy and the labour market. the council requested the repeal of the original decision establishing this committee, explaining that changes were necessary to reflect the role of the employment committee in the european semester process. i believe that it is through the changes proposed by the council that the employment committee will contribute to the process leading to the adoption of the broad economic guidelines and the european semester process and report to the council on this.
written. ‒ i give my consent to the draft council regulation amending regulation (eu, euratom) no 1311/2013 establishing the multiannual financial framework for the period 2014 to 2020.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the draft legislative resolution of the european parliament on the draft council regulation amending the regulation establishing the multiannual financial framework for the period 2014-2020 as it concludes the initial phase of the new programming period of cohesion policy in view of avoiding negative consequences for european cities and regions. it is important that all the financial resources of the european union, and in particular the structural and investment funds, are directed towards an efficient and effective use in order to stimulate growth and employment. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's macro-financial assistance to the countries of central and eastern europe, including the countries of the former soviet union, and will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's macro-financial assistance to the countries of central and eastern europe.
written. ‒ the late adoption of the cohesion policy rules for the period 2014-2020 has made it impossible to adopt all operational programmes in time. the commission's forecast proved too optimistic as a small percentage of programmes (39% or 252 union programmes) had been adopted by the end of 2014. the adoption of the remaining programs has been delayed. the commission shall be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 264 concerning the establishment of the multiannual financial framework for the period from 1 january 2014 to 31 december 2015. the commission shall be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 264 concerning the establishment of the european data protection supervisor. i welcome the proposal for a council regulation amending regulation (eu, euratom) no 1311/2013 establishing the multiannual financial framework for the period 2014-2020 and i voted to give parliament its consent as this is a necessary step to complete the process of launching the new programming period of the cohesion policy avoiding any negative impact on regions and cities and thus on european citizens. the european structural and investment funds are a very important part of the eu's investment policy and it is essential that all funds are used in a timely manner and as efficiently as possible, in order to generate growth and jobs. the new programming period has already experienced significant delays and it must be ensured that there are no further delays or any losses.
written. ‒ i support the report by mr olbricht and ms thomas on the draft council regulation amending regulation (eu, euratom) no 1311/2013 establishing the multiannual financial framework for the period 2014-2020, by which the european parliament, in accordance with the special legislative consent procedure, gives its consent to the draft council regulation amending regulation (eu, euratom) no 1311/2013 establishing the multiannual financial framework for the period 2014-2020, as set out in the annex to this resolution. i also welcome the fact that, in giving its consent, the committee on budgets' recommendations and the opinion of the committee on regional development were taken into account, in addition to the rules of procedure and previous reports.
written. the commission shall be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 264 concerning the establishment of a european data protection supervisor, the establishment of a european data protection board and the establishment of a european data protection board. the commission shall be assisted by the european parliament and the council. it was late in adopting 300 of the 645 eu programmes. the commission has therefore decided to amend the 2014 budget to take account of the revised budgetary procedure. the revision of the mff regulation allows for the transfer of eur 16,5 billion in 2015, eur 4,5 billion in 2016 and the remaining eur 0,1 billion in 2017. the commission notes that the commission has not provided any information on the amount of the aid granted to the beneficiaries. the commission considers that the measures in question are not imputable to the state. in order to maintain the momentum of investment in growth and jobs, minimise differences in treatment for programmes adopted in 2014, i support the commission's proposal to carry over most of the allocated funds not used in 2014.
written. ‒ i supported the amendment of the multiannual financial framework 2014-2020: the transfer of unused funds in 2014 as this transfer will not change the existing amounts of the multiannual financial framework. furthermore, i consider that the transfer of these funds is necessary as significant amounts of funds within the programme have remained unused due to the late adoption of the multiannual financial framework. i am particularly pleased that this amendment allows the continuation of funding of unfinished eu programmes in the member states and thus prevents the implementation of these projects from being halted.
written. ‒ although the term genocide did not exist a century ago, the virtual disappearance of armenians from the ottoman empire cannot be qualified otherwise. the open and free discussion in turkish society on historical issues, including the armenian genocide, is inextricably linked to the process of democratization. namely, a healthy and mature democracy cannot be built on the basis of denial and distortion of historical facts and responsibilities. the process of accession to the european union has played a key role in promoting the democratisation of turkey. i therefore believe that the unfreezing of the negotiation process can be a catalyst for a more open and free discussion of historical issues. in conclusion, i call on turkey and armenia to renew their efforts to normalize relations by unconditionally ratifying the protocols on the establishment of diplomatic relations and the opening of borders.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the european parliament's resolution on the centenary of the armenian genocide because it is a well-balanced document. regardless of some of the terminological definitions that are contested, such as the use of the term 'genocide', it cannot be escaped that a huge number of people were killed and that is why i supported this resolution. it also warns of the great misfortunes that have been suffered, and it is important to ensure that the crimes against humanity committed are not obsolete. in addition, the resolution seeks good neighbourly relations between turkey and armenia.
written. ‒ the violation of human dignity and the deliberate killing of people are contrary to human nature. yet, we have seen murders of people throughout history and continue to occur today. when ethnic cleansing and the deliberate killing and destruction of a national, ethnic, racial or religious group is carried out, as happened in vukovar, srebrenica, rwanda, or as is happening today to christians around the world, then it is genocide. the armenian genocide of 1915 is also recognized by historians. the nearly 1.5 million armenians killed and 2 million displaced are a lasting reminder of the first genocide of modern times and that is why i supported this resolution. with my deepest sympathy to the families of the victims, i also expect turkey to acknowledge that a genocide of the armenian people occurred 100 years ago because it bears responsibility for such a terrible tragedy. although there has been an improvement in relations between turkey and armenia in recent years, it is far from the desired situation. facing the past is an important step that can lead to reconciliation and cooperation, which turkey should do in view of its aspirations to become an eu member.
written. ‒ i support this resolution which stresses above all that the timely prevention and effective punishment of genocide and crimes against humanity should be a priority for the international community and the european union. we also call on turkey and armenia to renew efforts to normalise their relations by ratifying without preconditions the protocols on the establishment of diplomatic relations and the opening of borders, but we also stress the social, human, cultural and economic benefits that the normalisation of relations between turkey and armenia would bring to the turkish and armenian people, including the eradication of their mutual prejudices. open and free discussion in turkish society on historical issues, including the armenian genocide, is inextricably linked to the democratization process, as a healthy and mature democracy cannot be built on the basis of denial of historical facts and responsibility.
written. ‒ after the european people's party adopted the resolution on the 100th anniversary of the armenian genocide as well as the eastern partnership parliamentary assembly euronest, i also supported the resolution we adopted in the plenary on 15 april 2015.
written. ‒ i support the position of the european people, and the position of pope francis on the genocide of the armenian people, inspired by this resolution, should help turkey to condemn the great tragedy of the past. i believe that we in parliament must no longer turn a blind eye to the crimes that have been committed and are being committed against christians all over the world. modern europe respects all religions and religious beliefs, including islam, and i believe that turkey, as the country that has started negotiations for membership of the european union, together with croatia, must respect the fundamental european values and principles if it wants to get closer to the union and call the crimes of 1915 by their right name. only by joint condemnation and adequate qualification of the crimes can we ensure that such wrongdoing is not repeated because i fear that the systematic policy of ignoring such and similar crimes has led to christians today being unwelcome and persecuted in many areas. it is therefore important to support this resolution to put an end to such practices.
written. ‒ half a million roma were killed during world war ii. in some countries, their numbers have been reduced by 80 percent. the resolution calls for the recognition of the genocide of the roma in the second world war and the commemoration of a day of remembrance at european level. i support the text of the resolution.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution on international roma day - anti-roma sentiment in europe and recognition, in the eu, of the day of remembrance of the genocide of roma in world war ii, because it is crucial to put an end to discrimination, prejudice and intolerance of all kinds. for many years, as the mayor of istria, but also today, i have been constantly committed to promoting and strengthening the integration of the roma community. the istrian county is an excellent example of efficient and effective integration through economic, social, educational and other activities that contribute to synergy and mutual understanding and respect.
written. ‒ i support the adoption of this resolution in view of the importance of the roma community in europe, as roma, with an estimated population of 10 to 12 million in europe, are the largest european ethnic minority. the roma have historically been part of society in many european countries, but without a single motherland. they have contributed to europe as its citizens, but their status is different from that of national minorities in europe, which justifies specific measures at european level. this is all the more so because of the rise in racial intolerance towards roma, which is manifested, inter alia, by anti-roma rhetoric and violent attacks on roma in europe, including murders, which are not in line with the norms and values of the european union and represent a major obstacle to successful social integration of roma and to ensuring full respect for their human rights. discrimination and marginalisation are never the result of inherent weakness in the individual or group suffering such discrimination and marginalisation, but are mostly the result of failure of society at large to recognise the rights of individuals and failure to provide the necessary structures through which individuals can invoke those rights. last week we celebrated world roma day, and on this occasion, to the roma, but also to all those who respect the traditions and work for the welfare of a great nation, i congratulate them on their day.
written. there are an estimated 10 12 million roma in europe, making them the largest ethnic minority. they differ from one another in religion, language, and economic status. despite the fact that discrimination is prohibited in the eu member states, roma are unfortunately still the victims of prejudice, social exclusion and social exclusion that limits the life prospects of roma families. unfortunately, in some member states, intolerance towards roma is so high that the right to life was put at risk in 2009 (in hungary, 11 sinti and roma were killed in 2009). during the second world war, the roma and sinti people suffered mass destruction and discrimination, and they have waited for years for recognition of their victims. it was not until 1982 that helmut schmidt, then chancellor of germany, declared the mass murder of these people to be an act of genocide on the basis of racism. since the european union is founded on the values of respect for human dignity, freedom, democracy, equality, the rule of law and respect for human rights, we must fight together to ensure that no human rights are compromised on european soil and i therefore support this resolution.
mr. president, i would like to emphasize that this system is cheap, safe and will be readily available. of course, this is something that can help save people who are in an accident on the road, too many of our fellow citizens are dying on the road today, and so i'm sure that the speed of help that will happen after the introduction of this system is something that will allow far fewer people to die on the road than it was after the introduction of seat belts or airbags. i also want to emphasize that for me as a member of this group it was very important that we reached an agreement on the protection of personal data in such cases and that is why i will support and vote for this system.
mr president, parliament has adopted a decision supporting the introduction of the ecall system. the regulation will introduce this system in all cars and vans. this will ensure the protection of data that will not be stored for longer than necessary. the ecall system saves lives because it will allow an automatic connection to 112 in the event of an accident. it's a life-saving system that must be available to all citizens free of charge. member states should make further efforts to inform citizens about the importance of the european emergency number. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the new rules and will continue to monitor the implementation of the new rules. this innovation will be a prerequisite for the introduction of a more technologically sophisticated ecall system that is built into cars and that, in the event of a traffic accident, automatically contacts the 112 operator, providing him with information about the location of the accident and the type of accident.
member of the commission.– madam president, i fully share your concern about the need to work together to address alcohol-related harm (arh) across the european union. at this stage, i wish to express my regret that commissioner andriukaitis is not able to be here this evening, but i am glad to be able to take this debate on his behalf. alcohol is a killer and each year 120 000 eu citizens die from alcohol-related harm. the term ‘alcohol-related harm’ covers more than 60 types of diseases and conditions, including: addiction; injuries; liver, cardiovascular and mental diseases; and certain cancers. so it affects not only the individual drinker, but also many other people, particularly family members. drink-driving, violence and the suffering of children and families with alcohol problems are all part of the bigger picture of the harm that alcohol abuse inflicts on society. europe is still the world’s number one alcohol drinker, with an annual average of over 10 litres of pure alcohol per person and with significant variation among member states, regions and population groups, and yet most alcohol-related harm can be avoided. the commission is therefore keen to find the best way to work together with all stakeholders to deliver concrete results and to reduce alcohol-related harm. we therefore envisage shaping a framework of action to which the commission, the member states, parliament and civil society can all contribute. all our efforts need to be truly joined up and all of us have an important role to play. of course, the member states have the main competence and responsibility to address harmful alcohol consumption, for example by setting and enforcing age limits and regulating accessibility. just last week at the informal meeting of health ministers, member states expressed support for an eu approach to address alcohol-related harm. the commission is indeed ready to do its part to support national efforts and, as such, the commission intends to build on the solid foundations of the 2006 eu alcohol strategy and maintain its objectives and tools to work together with stakeholders. when i speak about the necessary tools i mean the european alcohol and health forum as well as the committee on national alcohol policy in action, and the joint action we currently have with member states to reduce alcohol-related harm. along with the renewed eu health policy forum, these tools can help secure the active involvement of all stakeholders, and in this way we can ensure that all efforts are unified and mutually reinforcing. in addition to alcohol-related harm, we need to carefully consider alcohol labelling. i want to confirm to mr la via that the commission has started preparatory work on a report about the possible use of ingredient lists and nutrition information for alcoholic beverages. further discussions are, however, needed before we can announce a date for the adoption of this report. at the same time, i believe that we need to focus more on health promotion and disease prevention and place action on the main causes of chronic diseases – not only in relation to alcohol but also in connection with tobacco, nutrition and physical inactivity – into a wider context; in other words, we need a holistic approach to preventing chronic diseases. whether or not the paper or instrument that enshrines such action is called a strategy is not in itself important. what matters most is not the tool that we use or its name, but the achievement of positive results and outcomes. i am confident that the european parliament, the member states, the commission and civil society, by working together, can succeed in reducing alcohol-related harm and, as such, contribute towards a healthier europe.
the question he raised by raising his blue card. i have listened to you very carefully all along and i know that you come from a famous italian wine region, piedmont, and i want to ask you if you agree with me, as a man who knows of course the great problems that alcohol can create, but on the other hand and on the good side when we are talking in particular about the wine industry, do you agree with me that we need to talk very, very carefully and balanced about this document and so vote when we vote on this document?
madam president, most people in this room occasionally have a beer with friends or a glass of wine after a meal. it's a european way of life and tradition and it has no adverse health effects. this resolution does not address this, nor does it seek to ban moderate drinking. its aim is not to put a french winemaker, a belgian brewer or a bottler in croatia out of work. the resolution on alcohol is our way of reminding the commission that europeans are the world's leading drinkers and that excessive drinking costs the union over eur 150 billion a year, while the social damage is immeasurable. the measures and recommendations in the strategy should be proportionate to the problem and the scale of the problem is relatively easy to identify. it is enough to visit the places where young people go out on weekends or to read the black chronicle after the weekend. the commission should develop a new alcohol strategy as soon as possible and cover in an adequate way the social groups most at risk from alcohol such as children, young people, drivers and pregnant women. their protection and well-being is our political and moral obligation.
madam president, i am listening carefully to this debate and i am glad that the debate is on the table, that we are talking, but the fact is, listening to the previous debate, we wanted more europe, we wanted a maximum centralized e-call, and now we have a completely opposite position, and the link is alcohol in one and in the other. so cause and effect are similar. but here, europe is different, 28 countries, and we really have to take into account the diversity of our cultures, the diversity of our civilizations. i therefore advocate that as much as possible the member states be left to decide, given the differences between the south and the north, as you know. i particularly want to make a distinction between types of alcohol. i mean, first of all, wine. we can't give small and medium-sized enterprises that are wine producers... these labels should, of course, warn of the harmful effects of alcohol, especially on young people and pregnant women, but they should also warn of its nutritional value. i think it's going to raise the price of a bottle of wine, and that's why i'm advocating that we do it differently. in any case, this strategy aims at prevention, it aims at warning, but we also have to take account of europe's competitiveness vis-à-vis other continents.
madam president, as a representative from croatia, i cannot remain indifferent to the latest research that shows that our country is at the very top of europe in alcohol consumption with more than 240 thousand alcoholics, of which only 3 percent are being treated. the trend of steady growth in consumption among young people is particularly worrying. i therefore believe that a new alcohol strategy would be beneficial both for croatia and for the european union. in doing so, i would like to emphasize that the emphasis should be on spreading awareness of the harmful effects of alcohol on both the body and the mind, rather than on stricter prohibitions, which i suspect would have the desired results. the central role in this campaign must of course be played by the family, but i would not exclude the education system, because i believe that better systematic information to young people about the consequences of long-term alcohol consumption can achieve enviable results.
written. alcohol abuse is harmful to human health. it's the third preventable cause of death in europe. addiction, violence, traffic accidents, ruined young lives are social problems caused by excessive alcohol consumption. efforts should be made together with the member states to reduce the harm caused by excessive alcohol consumption. the alcohol strategy should take into account the competence of the member states and work with them to raise the age limit for alcohol consumption. a summary of the health risks of alcohol is important, especially when pregnant women are carrying a new life. on the other hand, it is necessary to distinguish between different types of alcohol and to take into account tradition, culture and local production, especially in croatia, france, italy and spain. a glass of wine isn't bad for your health. therefore, there is no need to introduce additional requirements and new rules for wine producers, but instead to focus on prevention.
the question he raised by raising his blue card. i want to ask you this: listening carefully to your speech you mentioned a number of brands that come from your country, from italy, that are world famous and i ask you if you share my opinion that this private sector should also bear the consequences on the one hand and on the other hand in a way that helps bangladesh, to help where it makes extra profits in a way that is not possible and not appropriate, at least as i see it?
madam president, more than 70% of the eu's textile and clothing imports come from asia. many asian workers have to work in "sweat shop" conditions and no one responds until there are major fatal accidents, as happened in rana plaza in bangladesh in 2013. long working hours, low wages and systematically dangerous working conditions are common in factories in bangladesh. not all asian textile and clothing exporting countries have ratified the founding acts of the international labour organization, and their concrete application is far from desirable. the unions, when they're allowed to do so, can't protect the workers. bangladesh has not yet abolished child labor. these children cannot consume the right to childhood and education. their human rights are being violated. workers working in export zones must be able to organise into trade unions and to conclude collective agreements and have decent working hours. the commission should be able to take into account the specific needs of the union industry in the context of the union's policy on the environment.
the question he raised by raising his blue card. madam president, mr. representative, thank you for accepting the blue card. i'd like to ask you after listening carefully. you said that the baltic sea is the first such example of a comprehensive approach to the exploitation and use of the resources that exist in the baltic. do you think, as i do, that a similar approach should be taken to the adriatic sea, which is a small, enclosed sea, where we really should have principles of fishing for all kinds and a really scientific approach to conserve resources in a small enclosed sea like the adriatic?
madam president, i would like to highlight three key elements that we have on the table here today. first, it's a great approach to have a multi-year plan and to know exactly what we're going to do in the next few years because it's a great message to the fishing industry and to all those involved in fishing. secondly, i think it is extremely important that we finally address the fact that we are studying and introducing quotas for several species in parallel, because that is the only correct way. the previous model, where you were basically talking about taking a single species of fish, is not enough. so that's something that's very good in this case. the third important principle is precisely the regionalization of the catch in european seas. namely, i mentioned earlier that the adriatic sea is a small, enclosed sea, like the baltic sea, and we need to have a special sensitivity to small and especially to enclosed seas.
madam president, i support the amendments proposed by the rapporteur because i believe that an omnibus regulation like this must have a clear objective, which in this case would be to bring the landing obligation into line gradually, rather than placing an additional burden on the shoulders of fishermen. i think that the proposed two-year adjustment period is a reasonable timeframe that will allow fishermen to better cope with changes in fisheries policy. i am happy that croatia has been granted an exemption from the landing obligation provided that less than 5% of the catch is discarded, because such a decision is a lifesaving decision for our fishermen. the fact that the swimming pools do not allow a sufficiently high level of selectivity in fishing, as well as the evident lack of facilities for disposing of unwanted catches, has led to serious problems for croatian fishermen, which have now been significantly alleviated. i expect the same positive impact on fishermen and the sustainable development of their activities from this rapporteur's proposal and will therefore support it in the vote.
madam president, commissioner, i would like to point out that i have many friends among fishermen, and one fisherman from poreč, who is a small fisherman, is my best friend from childhood. and they always like to say that they're skeptical, suspicious, and they don't trust the lawmakers. i'm gonna be a little fisherman tonight, too, and i'm gonna be a little suspicious because i'm not sure how this is gonna end. i'd like to believe that mandatory landing is as sustainable as fishing. but let me be a little suspicious and not be sure that's going to be the case. in any case, i would like to stress the need for the principle of flexibility and the principle of the transitional period to perhaps dispel my doubts and perhaps it is precisely flexibility and the transitional period that will enable small fishermen to feel better after a few years when these directives come into force.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, one third of the european union's citizens live in rural, remote and mountainous areas. their gdp is 70% of the average while in urban areas it is 123%. the trend of leaving these crisis areas has increased, with unemployment in these areas increasing from 7% to 10% between 2008 and 2012. the easiest way to get close to these areas is the internet. the internet is not just entertainment, it's not just information, it's education, it's access to health care, it's access to government processes, it's access to business, and it's ultimately staying in those areas. however, only 18% of these areas are covered by the internet, three times less than urban areas. the commission shall be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 290 concerning the conditions for the participation of third countries in union programmes.
mr president, i will say at the outset that i will support this report, primarily because i know that its author, mr torvalds, has done everything possible to reach a compromise and to make the expression of this parliament as strong and as powerful as possible. i personally had the opportunity to say and do things that are relevant to this report while i was in the executive and i have to say that i was not inclined to the first generation of biofuel and that i did not do much to make it applicable in practice in croatia, especially in istria where i worked. but i'm convinced that this discussion of the advanced generation, which is about using waste, is something that we need to focus on. i really do call for us to invest a significant amount of money all together in research to turn waste and all that we can from waste into advanced biofuels. i think that's the way we need to go.
madam president, the fact is that this has become a global problem and that the use of plastic bags is a symbol of consumer society. it is good that the european union has now reached an agreement between the council, the commission and parliament, although parliament was clearly more involved in this and clearly had more sensitivities than the commission. i mean, it's not that old indian saying, "we borrowed this land from our heirs", and since we borrowed it from our heirs, we have to treat it that way. this is very important and therefore plastic bags are really becoming a huge problem and i think it is a good directive that lets member states manage the situation in their own territory in the best possible way. i like this incentive initiative more than the ban initiative because we have evidence in countries like ireland, scandinavian countries that incentives have had an effect. when it comes to plastic bags in croatia, i am concerned about the state of our rivers, and especially the state of our adriatic sea. i want to highlight here, i have said this many times, and i want to repeat it today, the problem of plastic bags coming with the sea currents through the adriatic sea from albania to the croatian beaches and the croatian sea. so, in addition to endangering the environment, we are also endangering the economy, because we are entering a vicious circle, and that is our tourism. i therefore think we must find a way of resolving this problem with non-eu countries. (the speaker accepts to answer the question raised by the raising of the blue card (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure))
the question he raised by raising his blue card. i would like to ask you about this very topic that you spoke about at the end, about the cross-border pollution that comes to the coast of croatia from albania and via the neretva from bosnia and herzegovina. do you agree with me that the european commission should, in its negotiations with the republic of albania, which is a candidate country, and also with bosnia and herzegovina, make it a condition for further progress to resolve the issue of crossborder pollution coming across the adriatic in its negotiations with albania and bosnia and herzegovina?
answer the question posed by raising the blue card. thank you, mr. jakovčić, for this question. given that the adriatic is a semi-enclosed sea, i think it's very important that all the countries that gravitate towards the adriatic have the same regulations. the fact is that not all countries are members of the european union, and here i would like to highlight bosnia and herzegovina and albania, but also montenegro. however, she is dealing with this problem of her own. so we will insist, and i have said this many times in the environment committee, that these details have to be included in the negotiating chapters and it is very important that we have equal rules because if we do not care equally we will not protect the sea.
madam chair, plastic bags are not something most people think about when they're packing things in the store or piling them up in the kitchen. i'm sure most of you have at least one drawer in your house that's crammed full of these bags. these are the ones that aren't in the environment, but the vast majority of them end up in the wild. they pollute forests, they pollute rivers, they pollute seas, and the next time you find yourself swimming in a pool and a bag floating by, remember that you had a chance to do something about it. the figure of 8 billion bags thrown away every year at eu level is truly alarming and calls for action. this directive requires member states to reduce the consumption of thin plastic carrier bags. the document sets out measures, objectives, deadlines but takes into account the results achieved so far by the member states. my country, for example, has a lower consumption of plastic bags than many other member states, and that approach is welcome. i believe that a compromise has been reached in the negotiations which will ensure that the consumption of thin plastic bags is reduced. the commission notes that the measure is not intended to provide a guarantee to the beneficiary of the aid. this is the first time in 14 years that binding measures have been introduced at eu level to reduce waste generation, and we should certainly welcome this.
madam president, croatia is a relatively small consumer of lightweight plastic bags per capita when we talk about the european average. however, i want to emphasize that croatia is a big producer of lightweight plastic bags and that of course creates certain problems for us, because we will as things stand lose the relevant jobs and all that it carries. in fact, i'll even say that i worked in that industry for eighty years. i was very close to that industry and i'm very close to that industry today, and i have to say that i'm certainly not going to be advocating for that industry here, but i'm going to be advocating for this very debate, because lightweight plastic bags have proven to be a serious environmental problem. and that's why i want to highlight another serious problem that we have in the adriatic sea. i hope it will not turn into a carpet like the one in the pacific, but we have a problem of crossborder pollution from albania and bosnia and herzegovina and i ask you as the commission to help negotiate with albania and bosnia and herzegovina.
madam president, our goal is to achieve an international agreement and a level playing field. this is a good start. there is a board meeting next week at the international maritime organisation in london, which i will be attending as a member of the environmental protection committee, and it is dominated by the very subject we are talking about here today. the fact is that this is the only area which has not been covered by any agreements so far and therefore we must include the introduction of special measures. however, we must not undermine the competitiveness of maritime transport and we must take care to protect the rights of small fishermen. i welcome the part that excludes smaller vessels and includes vessels over 5 000 tonnes. in any case, it is good that there is a monitoring, reporting system and that it will be implemented in such a way that the shipowner, or company, for each voyage has to calculate the amount of carbon dioxide emitted and has to report once a year to the european commission and the flag state on the amount of carbon dioxide emitted. we also know that the commission must also report to parliament every two years. we hope that this is a good and ambitious goal, but it is necessary to include countries outside the european union. they need to be encouraged by international agreement and regional connectivity. i warn against the sudden rise of cruising tourism and i especially highlight my hometown dubrovnik. i hope that this new sulphur directive and the one we're talking about today will help reduce the amount of emissions.
madam president, mr commissioner, i want to emphasize, as you know, but i want to emphasize that croatia is a maritime country. the maritime sector is an extremely important economic sector for croatia. port jobs as number two are a very important economic sector, but also the manufacture of engines for ships, marine engines, is something that is of extreme importance to our industry. so when we talk about this regulation, i think that of course it's absolutely necessary to regulate this part of transportation, because this part of transportation is also polluting the environment, polluting our planet, and we need to measure not only the co2 issue but we need to measure other gases as well. and i want to thank all those who have made great efforts to come to this document, to this compromise, but i stress again, it is very important that we take into account all those elements and the shipping and the port industry and the manufacture of ship engines.
written. ‒ i support this recommendation to ensure that vessels are manned by qualified personnel who have undergone adequate training and medical examination. fishing is the occupation with the highest accident rate. it is estimated that 24,000 people lose their lives every year in the fishing industry. therefore, i consider it necessary to take all appropriate measures to ensure that vessels are manned by qualified personnel who have undergone adequate training, and this recommendation does not require any increased costs for eu member states.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the recommendation on the draft council decision authorising member states to become parties, in the interest of the union, to the international maritime organisation's international convention on standards of training, certification and watchkeeping for personnel on fishing vessels, given that the eu cannot ratify the said convention, but member states can do so with the eu's authorisation. this convention creates the conditions to ensure that the personnel on fishing vessels are qualified and ready to perform their work, and to minimise the risks of this profession which unfortunately has a high number of fatalities per year and one of the highest rates of accidents at work.
written. ‒ i support the recommendation of rapporteur riberio that member states take all necessary steps to ratify the international maritime organisation's international convention on standards of training, certification and watchkeeping for personnel on fishing vessels. the objective of this convention is to ensure that fishing vessel personnel are qualified and able to work under such conditions. all member states should have the same minimum standards for working conditions and safety on board in order to reduce accidents. fishing is the occupation with the highest rate of workplace accidents. the implementation of this convention and the rules laid down therein would ensure that potential threats to the safety of life and property at sea are reduced.
written. ‒ fishing is the activity with the highest percentage of accidents at work, with as many as 24 000 people dying every year while fishing. this is alarming evidence that indicates the need for significantly better protection of fishermen in the course of their activities. the international convention on standards of training, certification and watchkeeping for personnel on fishing vessels (stcw-f convention) was adopted by the international maritime organisation (imo) in london on 7 july 1995 by 74 states, 22 of which are now members of the european union. however, only four member states (spain, denmark, latvia and lithuania) have ratified the stcw-f convention. this is also because, under eu regulations, the eu must give its consent to the member states for ratification. i therefore support the consent of the council to the authorisation of member states to become parties, in the interest of the union, to the international convention on standards of training, certification and watchkeeping for personnel on fishing vessels of the international maritime organisation. i believe this decision is the right step forward to better protect our fishermen and i hope that similar protection standards will soon be applicable to all fishermen, regardless of the length and strength of the vessels they sail on.
written. ‒ i support the proposal to authorise member states to become parties to the imo international convention on standards of training on fishing vessels. the aim of introducing these measures is to ensure that personnel are qualified and adequate for the job according to medical standards in order to minimise risks and threats to the safety of life and property at sea, as well as to the marine environment as a whole.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution which aims to empower member states to become parties, in the interest of the union, to the international maritime organisation's international convention on standards of training, certification and watchkeeping for personnel on fishing vessels. it is necessary to ensure that personnel on board fishing vessels are adequately qualified and carry out appropriate duties so that potential threats to the safety of life and/or property at sea, to the marine environment, whenever possible, are minimised.
in writing. – i voted in favour of the recommendation on the international convention on standards of training, certification and watch keeping for fishing vessel personnel, signed in 1995, as it will allow member states to ratify the convention without infringing on the eu's executive competence in regards to the ‘recognition of regulated professions pursed by eu nationals on board fishing vessels'. the importance of this convention is evident as the highest accident rates occur when fishing- approximately of 24 000 lives are lost, per year, in fishing incidents. the recommendation supports a convention that aims at helping ensure safety measures for all life and property on sea. the countries that signed the stcw-f convention in 1995 are to ensure mandatory training for personnel using vessels that are 24 meters or more in length, while countries who did not sign the convention are encouraged to do so as its training requirements will ensure that the personnel using fishing vessels are qualified to do so- the qualification entails an official certificate accompanied by a medical certificate. furthermore, the signatory countries are not obliged, but encouraged to adapt laws that will require training and certification standards for smaller vessels, or vessels of less strength, as it will help minimise the high number of accidents that occur at sea.
written. ‒ article 19 of the mff treaty provides for the possibility of financing projects which are late in closing the financial year. as the projects are socially beneficial and based on european values, i support the proposal.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of draft amending budget no 2/2015: revision of the multiannual financial framework for 2014 to 2020, as such revision of the multiannual financial framework is a standard procedure at the beginning of each mff period and the corresponding draft amending budget should be aligned with it. this ensures that unused appropriations for 2014 are carried over to the following years and thus contribute to job creation and growth. this ensures that cohesion policy funds are used, given that not all operational programmes of the member states have been adopted.
the european parliament adopted at its last plenary session in brussels an amendment to the multiannual financial framework for 2014-2020, authorising the transfer of €21 billion of unused funds for 2014 to 2015, 2016 and 2017. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the budget and the implementation of the budgetary discipline and the budgetary discipline of the union. the amended budget no 2 for 2015 provides for an increase of eur 16 billion in commitment appropriations for the structural funds under economic, social and territorial cohesion (sub-title 1.b) and the programmes under sustainable development (title 2), security and citizenship (title 3). the amount of assigned revenue in accordance with article 21 (3) of the financial regulation is estimated at eur 100000. i believe that the transfer of these funds will help to accelerate the implementation of regional policy programmes and thus contribute to the creation of economic growth and development and to the creation of new jobs, which is why i support this report.
the commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down the rules for the implementation of the budget for the financial year 2014-2020. the revision of the multiannual financial framework will enable the swift adoption of all operational programmes not adopted in 2014, including the croatian rural development programme, and i therefore support this report on the council's position on draft amending budget no 2/2015 of the european union for the financial year 2015.
written. ‒ article 19 of the emf regulation provides for the revision of the multiannual financial framework in the event of late adoption of rules or programmes under shared management to carry over unused resources from 2014 to the coming year which are higher than the corresponding expenditure ceilings. given that the maximum amount of appropriations has been carried over to the financial year 2015 in order to avoid unfair treatment of member states, regions and operational programmes, to accelerate the implementation and realisation of cohesion policy and to avoid the accumulation of payments at the end of the mff period, i support the proposed draft amending budget no 2/2015: amending the multiannual financial framework 2014-2020. at the same time, i share the concern about the long-term impact of this one-year delay on the overall payment situation and i join the calls on the commission to monitor closely the implementation of the budget and to do everything it can to make, if necessary and in accordance with the relevant provisions of the mff regulation, appropriate proposals to adjust the annual levels of appropriations for payments in order to avoid an avalanche of outstanding accounts.
written. ‒ bearing in mind that it is crucial for european citizens and economies in all member states that the unused appropriations for 2014 are carried over to the following year and thus contribute to job creation and growth, and that the maximum amount of appropriations has been carried over to the financial year 2015 in order to avoid unfair treatment of member states, regions and operational programmes, accelerate the implementation and realisation of cohesion policy and avoid the accumulation of payments at the end of the mff period, i supported draft amending budget no 2/2015. however, i share the concern regarding the long-term impact of this one-year delay on the overall payment situation and also call on the commission to monitor closely the implementation of the budget and to do everything it can to make, if necessary and in accordance with the relevant provisions of the emff regulation, appropriate proposals to adjust the annual levels of appropriations for payments in order to avoid an avalanche of outstanding accounts.
written. ‒ i supported draft amending budget no 2/2015 because the revision of the multiannual financial framework and the adoption of draft amending budget no 2 are prerequisites for the adoption of the programmes in 2015 for which the 2014 allocation has not been used. the commission shall be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 26 to supplement this regulation by laying down detailed rules for the application of this regulation. the reprogramming will not cover the contributions of the instrument for pre-accession assistance and the neighbourhood instrument due to the complexity of the procedure itself and the impact on a wide range of its stakeholders. the rapid completion of the revision of the multiannual financial framework and the adoption of draft amending budget no 2 should avoid further delays in the adoption of the programmes and ensure smooth implementation of the programmes supporting growth and jobs across the union. the reprogrammed funds should be directed towards long-term sustainable investments. we need to identify public policies that will deliver real and sustainable growth for the european economy. the commission should also be able to use the existing instruments to support the implementation of the union's policy on climate change and to support the union's efforts to achieve a sustainable development strategy. the commission shall be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 264 concerning the establishment of a european data protection supervisor. i would ask the commission to follow the arguments just mentioned in the reprogramming of funds.
written. ‒ i supported the draft amending budget as article 19 of the emf regulation provides for a revision of the multiannual financial framework in the event of late adoption of rules or programmes under shared management to carry over unused resources from 2014 to the coming years which are higher than the corresponding expenditure ceilings.
in writing. – i voted in favour of the revision draft amending budget no. 2/2015 as it will allow the redistribution of the multiannual financial framework for the years 2014-2020. due to the postponement of the final agreement on the multiannual financial framework for the period from 2014-2020, the legal provisions needed for the implementation of funding of various programmes were delayed and as a consequence, all of the funds allocated to the programmes were not used. funds will be transferred to various programmes including the european social fund, youth employment initiative, the cohesion fund, european regional development fund, the rural development fund and others. the unused and non-transferable funds intended for the year 2014 amount to over 21 billion euro, equivalent to almost 15% of the budget for 2014. the planned revision of the budget will thus allow full implementation of funds that were intended for the various programmes in 2014 to be used in 2015 and beyond.
written. ‒ i support the draft amending budget for 2015 and the revision of the multiannual financial framework for 2014-2020, as the revision of the framework must be accompanied by a corresponding amending budget. we are clear that the ultimate goal in managing budgetary resources is to reduce social and economic disparities and to promote sustainable development. i consider that the carry-over and the budget rebalancing are necessary measures to continue the disbursement of funds under the late programme advances in order to ultimately stimulate growth, create jobs and contribute to strengthening institutional capacity. the difficulties that may arise during the transfer of unused funds, and which may create additional pressure when they are absorbed further, require regulatory assistance to be provided to member states, in particular to those that are poor. there is a real need for continued financial assistance and for the implementation of projects in many member states which are in an unenviable position, because in many cases the funds from these funds represent the only external investments in certain areas, which is why i voted in favour of this report.
mr president, nearly 30 000 people die each year on europe's roads. the number of injured is many times higher. these are shocking figures and call for urgent action. an electronic call is an appropriate response that can reduce these tragic numbers because it will allow an automatic call to the emergency services at the time of the accident instead of those who are unable to do so themselves. and every minute saved until the arrival of the ambulance increases the chances of survival and recovery of the injured. i am pleased that this proposal also covers the principles of data protection for citizens. the technical provisions of the proposal are perfect and there is ample time for the compulsory introduction of electronic calling systems. i therefore fully support it and congratulate the rapporteur who has worked so hard on it for two terms. it is time to introduce a single emergency system in the single european market with a single emergency number 112. such a system can save up to 2,500 lives a year and is worth implementing.
written. ‒ as a doctor, i can confirm the importance of medical assistance to those injured in road accidents as soon as possible. we call it the golden hour. the introduction of e-call will speed up the arrival of emergency aid by 40 and 50 per cent respectively in urban and rural areas. the unique alert system is particularly important for cross-border travel where language barriers often delay assistance. the new system will send a satellite alert to emergency services, police, and fire departments within seconds of an accident, giving the location, type, and number of passengers, as well as the direction of the vehicle, which is especially important in accidents in tunnels and on highways. i'm also glad that croatia will be receiving the system prepared. road safety is invaluable and i believe we will all feel safer once this document is put into practice.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the draft legislative resolution of the european parliament on the council position at first reading with a view to adopting a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on type-approval requirements for the introduction of the 112-based ecall in-vehicle system and amending directive 2007/46/ec, as it requires new types of passenger and light commercial vehicles to be designed to ensure that the 112 emergency call can be triggered automatically or manually in the event of an accident. some of the benefits are a reduction in road accidents, a reduction in injuries and deaths, faster access to emergency services, increased safety of such services in their operation, reduced congestion on the roads, reduced need for other road safety infrastructure.
written. ‒ the fact that more than 100 million people die each year on the roads of the member states of the european union is a matter of concern for all. one way to reduce these black statistics is to introduce the e-pickup system. the system is planned to be installed in all vehicles registered in the member states to ensure adequate emergency response and handling in the event of an accident. i support the recommendation of the rapporteur sehnalo and believe that the entry into force of this regulation, scheduled for 31 march 2018, will significantly reduce the number of accidents on european roads.
written. ‒ i support the council's position at first reading with a view to adopting a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on type-approval requirements for the introduction of the 112-based ecall in-vehicle system and amending directive 2007/46/ec. the introduction of the ecall service available in all vehicles and in all member states has been one of the union's high priorities in the field of road safety since 2003. the e-call should reduce the number of fatalities in the union as well as the severity of injuries caused by road accidents, thanks to the current call to 112. the activation of the 112 emergency protocol would be based on the received precise location of the accident by means of a satellite positioning system embedded in the vehicle and synchronised with the e-call. the number of road fatalities in the union decreased by 5 700 in 2014, i.e. by 18%, compared to 2010. the commission's objective of a 50% reduction by 2020 would certainly make the einvitation system a catalyst for this demanding process. the statistics would also improve, with an average of 4 permanent disabilities, 8 serious injuries, and 50 minor injuries for every death. the commission will continue to support the development of the european e-call system, which will help to ensure that citizens of the union have a safer and more secure life on european roads.
written. ‒ i strongly support the introduction of ecall in vehicles within the european union, which will allow for an adequate emergency call through a specialised service. worrying data from the institute for road safety point to disastrous results for european road safety. the commission should be able to assess the impact of the proposed measures on the environment and on the environment as a whole. implementing such a system would speed up emergency response by as much as 40 percent in urban areas and up to 50 percent in rural areas, saving some 2,500 lives a year. i agree that the e-call system needs to be made financially accessible, because safety and quick access to rescue services must be available to all citizens of the union. i would also like to highlight with pleasure the exceptional achievement of croatia in this regard, as it is croatia that has been awarded a special prize for the successful implementation and testing of the ecall system in 2013 by the european emergency number association, together with eight other member states.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of this proposal, which ultimately aims to introduce in all vehicles in the eu the minimum functionality needed to ensure adequate handling in emergencies. action is needed at eu level to ensure interoperability and continuity of services across europe.
in writing. – i voted in favour of the report and in favour of the deployment of the ecall in-vehicle system as it aims to implement a system that will help ensure the safety of passengers and better road safety in across the eu. in croatia alone, in 2014, 11 547 individuals were injured in a road accident, while 2 675 had severe injuries. the new system, which is expected to be activated by october 2015, will assure passengers of more security in emergency cases as it will improve communication between passengers and the emergency services across the eu. the system entails the introduction of ʽminimum functionalitiesʼ that will make it easier for the emergency response service to handle emergency calls. the new passenger and lighter commercial vehicles will entail a system that triggers an ecall to the 112 emergency services automatically and/or manually in the event of a severe accident and will provide the exact location of the vehicle. more importantly, data sent to the emergency services (the location of the vehicle, etc.) will only be available upon request or for an accident – the data cannot be used for tracking, thus ensuring passengers of their privacy while increasing their safety on the road.
written. ‒ i supported the report on the type-approval applications for the introduction of the 112-based ecall in-vehicle system as i believe that this in-vehicle system is useful for improving the efficiency of emergency services, as appropriate emergency responses can reduce the number of fatalities in road accidents. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the new rules and to provide the commission with the necessary information to enable it to take action. at the same time, the report highlights the need to preserve the privacy of users by automatically and continuously removing the internal memory of the system and by making information about the last three locations available to the system in order to determine the current location of the vehicle. in addition, i consider that vehicle owners are rightly given the option of using another emergency call system if it complies with the standards, but these vehicle owners are still provided with this public emergency call service.
mr president, i have already said once in this chamber that i want europe to remain at the forefront of positive global policies aimed at mitigating climate change and that i am proud to live in a society that takes this threat to civilisation seriously, a society that leads global efforts with its commitment and responsibility and a society that delivers on its promises. europe is also setting the bar for this year's paris meeting. this document is one of the documents that responsibly supports these efforts, and our responsibility as co-legislators must be recognised by those from whom we ask for effort and sacrifice to achieve a common goal. how and to whom this responsibility manifests itself we must ask ourselves. to our industry and to our workers. clear objectives and rules with clear and realistic timelines for their application such clarity provides the necessary potential for greater and safer financial investment and for the creation of new jobs.
written. ‒ i believe that, in the case of biofuels, we need to take a step forward towards a solution that will have a positive climate impact and will not increase competition with the food industry. after two rounds of trialogue with the council, no progress was made in finding a compromise on the fuel quality and renewable energy directives. in this context, parliament sent the council a list of what it considered to be the main obstacles to an agreement, in the hope that the council would consolidate its positions and find a common line. progress has finally been made at the level of coreper, which has resulted in this compromise which i support.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the draft legislative resolution of the european parliament on the council position at first reading with a view to adopting a directive of the european parliament and of the council amending directive 98/70/ec on the quality of petrol and diesel fuels and amending directive 2009/28/ec on the promotion of the use of energy from renewable sources, taking into account the environmental improvements, taking into account the directive's objectives of using 10% renewable energy in the transport sector by 2020 and achieving a 6% greenhouse gas emission reduction by 2020 for road transport fuels. i support the process of limiting the contribution of conventional biofuels to such targets, and improving biofuel production in terms of less greenhouse gas emissions, and greater market access for advanced biofuels. furthermore, i support the transition to a biofuels policy for greenhouse gas emission reduction that takes into account land-use change emissions criteria.
written. ‒ one of the eu's main objectives for 2020 is to reduce greenhouse gas emissions by 20% compared to 1990. the objective is also to increase energy efficiency by 20%, provided that 20% of the total energy is sourced from renewable energy sources. the commission has also received comments from the croatian authorities on the draft law on energy efficiency. data for croatia are available from 2005 and the country's efforts by 2012 have led to a reduction in greenhouse gas emissions of just over 13%. the share of energy in final consumption drawn from renewable energy sources was 16,8% in 2012 and 18% in 2013. the national action plan for renewable energy defines targets for three sectors: electricity, transport and heating and cooling. i support the recommendation of mr torvalds, because we need stronger incentives for biofuels and renewable energy to meet the 2020 targets. it is important to correct directives that currently lack a long-term perspective, because a greener europe should be a priority for everyone.
written. ‒ the original commission proposal was to amend the fuel quality directive 98/70/ec (fqd) and renewable energy directive (directive 2009/28/ec) with the aim of encouraging the transition to biofuels and delivering significant greenhouse gas savings including iluc while protecting existing investments. the primary objective was to limit the contribution of conventional biofuels towards the targets set out in directive 2009/28/ec, to improve the ghg performance of biofuels from production processes, to encourage greater market penetration for advanced biofuels and to report estimated iluc emissions. given that the trilogues with the council did not reach agreement on most competition issues, i am pleased that a compromise was subsequently reached on most provisions at coreper where the council considered some of parliament's proposals. i hope that the adoption of the second reading position will lead to a final compromise on the whole legislative package which will allow the implementation of the provisions on first generation biofuels in a balanced way.
written. ‒ emissions of harmful exhaust gases can cancel out adequate natural gas supplies. in october 2012, guidelines were issued to control fuel quality, promote the use of energy from renewable sources and switch to the use of biofuels, ensure their sufficient production and as much market entry as possible, in order to protect against harmful emissions. the commission has also proposed to make the calculation of emissions from the production of biofuels compulsory for the determination of biofuel stocks, and to set a target of a 6% annual yield of first-generation biofuels from renewable energy sources and the introduction of advanced biofuels. the commission notes that the commission has not yet adopted a proposal for a new target of 6% for advanced biofuels by 2020, but has already adopted a binding target of 1,25% for advanced biofuels by 2020, and has supported a long-term policy of investing in sustainable biofuels beyond 2020.
written. ‒ i supported the fuel quality directive and the renewable energy directive because i believe it is time to start the transition to biofuels, which provide significant greenhouse gas savings and estimated indirect land-use change emissions. the transition to renewable energy is the foundation of any modern society. i agree with limiting the share of first-generation biofuels, because they bring the risk of indirect land-use change emissions. the commission should be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 21 to amend this regulation by amending annex ii to this regulation. in addition, the promotion of greater market penetration of advanced biofuels and the improvement of greenhouse gas emissions reporting by introducing an obligation to report estimated biofuel emissions related to indirect land use change for member states and fuel suppliers should be welcomed as the main objectives of these directives. croatia has great potential in the use of renewable energy sources and in reducing energy consumption through the application of energy efficiency. both contribute to reducing greenhouse gas emissions and environmental protection, and reduce dependence on imported energy.
written. ‒ i supported the fuel quality directive and the renewable energy directive. the commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 26 to supplement this regulation by establishing the criteria for determining the amount of energy from renewable sources to be used in transport. the commission should be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 290 concerning the conditions for the granting of such a derogation. the commission considers that the objective of the union's energy policy is to achieve a sustainable and sustainable energy mix, which is based on the principle of sustainable development.
written. after 2 intensive trialogue meetings, an agreement was finally reached with the council and we can say that the epp positions have been adopted. for the first and second generation of biofuels, we have achieved what we wanted. we've reduced the crop for the production of first-generation biofuels and we've encouraged innovation for second-generation biofuels. the greens insisted on biofuels a few years ago and then they realized that crops are not the best way to produce biofuels, and to move to a second generation, which comes from waste, new plants need to be built because you can't use the same plants to process crops and waste. we need to have strong legislation so that investors can be confident in their investments, and not have the rules change often, especially because those investments only become profitable over the long term. the agreement should preserve the first generation industry as some investments have already been made, while at the same time encouraging the development of second generation biofuels.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of a european parliament and council directive amending directive 98/70/ec on the quality of petrol and diesel fuels and amending directive 2009/28/ec on the promotion of the use of energy from renewable sources to ensure that the share of energy in all forms of transport in 2020 represents at least 10% of final energy consumption. i believe that steps should be taken to facilitate member states and recommendations for additional measures to achieve energy efficiency and to ensure energy savings in the transport sector. the quality of petrol and diesel fuels and the promotion of biofuels and renewable energy are key issues for europe's future, both in environmental and economic terms. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the new rules and to monitor the implementation of the new rules. the member states are given a certain margin of manoeuvre in terms of adapting their national programmes, i.e. flexibility in setting the target parameters within the national framework and that is why i supported this request.
mr. president, this is the final step in the adoption of a directive that seeks to address a major environmental problem. lightweight plastic bags often end up in the sea or in nature instead of in the regular waste disposal cycle. the very high consumption of plastic bags in the european union is putting us at risk and implies that we will be spending our resources in an unsustainable way. lightweight plastic bags that are used once and then thrown away are an example of great environmental pollution. the compromise reached on this directive took into account the habits of our consumers, the viability of small businesses producing plastic bags and nature, which cannot tolerate additional burdens. the commission has also found that the proposed amendment to the definition of very thin bags is not in line with the requirements of the union legislation. member states will have to take measures to reduce the consumption of plastic bags, but they are given a choice of how to do so.
mr president, i supported the amendment of the directive on the reduction of lightweight plastic bags, because it included the position of small producers, including from the republic of croatia, that very thin bags are still those of 15 microns, not 10 as was previously proposed. the fact is, plastic bags are not dangerous to the environment, they pollute it. and so a much better solution would be to set up a collection and recycling system, but since that didn't pass, no such agreement was reached. the solution in the directive is a kind of compromise that i have agreed to. the commission should also be able to request the member states to provide information on the application of the measures in force to the measures in force in the member states. implementation of this directive will reduce the negative impact on the environment and i am happy to support it.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the draft legislative resolution of the european parliament on the council position at first reading with a view to adopting a directive of the european parliament and of the council amending directive 94/62/ec as regards the reduction of the consumption of lightweight plastic carrier bags, given its major contribution to reducing the negative impact on the environment, in particular in terms of the discharge of such waste into the environment.
written. ‒ over 8 million plastic bags are discarded in the european union every year, most of which end up in the sea, which is why the accumulation of plastic bags in the environment has a highly negative impact on some sectors of the economy such as tourism. and even though they can be recycled, the current recycling rates are very low. the new plastic bag regulation is therefore a welcome step towards reducing the negative impact on the environment. the commission should also take into account the fact that the use of plastic carrier bags is not subject to the same rules as the use of plastic carrier bags in the union. i particularly welcome the provision on the flexibility of the implementation of the proposed measures whereby the objectives are clearly set, but the path to their achievement is up to the member states. in croatia, the plastic bag sector employs almost two thousand citizens, and i am pleased that the new compromise will help to preserve their jobs.
written. ‒ i strongly support the proposal to reduce the unnecessary use of plastic bags by 50% by 2019 with the aim of further reducing hard-to-degrade bags. just as all bio-retail chains have been offering paper or canvas bags for years, it is possible to reduce the sale of plastic bags and thus end the negative habits of buying them. paper bags are biodegradable within a year, and canvas bags, in addition to being biodegradable, can be used for years, which contributes to waste reduction and environmental protection, sustainable development and contributes to a change in collective consciousness.
written. ‒ i strongly support the adopted directive which aims to reduce the consumption of lightweight plastic bags. they have long-term environmental and biodiversity impacts, given that over 8 billion plastic bags end up as waste in the european union every year. given their small mass, strength and the properties that make them commercially attractive, plastic bags are deposited everywhere in nature. each eu citizen uses on average 198 plastic bags a year, and only 10% of them are reused. the commission will also be able to use the data from the european commission's annual report on the implementation of the european union's policy on the environment and sustainable development to assess the impact of the union's policy on the environment and sustainable development. the negative consequences of this directive are often mentioned in croatia, as some 1 800 jobs are directly linked to the production of bags and 87 companies are involved in their production. i see hemp as a solution to that problem because hemp, if it were legalized, would employ far more people than plastic bags, but it would also create new jobs in agriculture.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of this directive which promotes the reduction of negative environmental impacts, in particular in terms of the disposal of waste into the environment, promotes waste prevention and more efficient use of resources, while limiting negative social and economic impacts. the directive aims to reduce the consumption of plastic bags thinner than 50 microns (0.05 millimetres) in the european union, of which 90% are discarded after the first use due to irresponsible consumer habits, and 8 billion bags are turned into waste every year.
written. an interinstitutional agreement on this subject has been reached and approved by both the council and the european commission. except for the ecr, everyone supported the deal and it's about raising awareness for environmental protection. the use of the most common plastic bags, which are also the biggest polluters, will be required to be reduced. the dumping of plastic bags into the environment causes pollution and exacerbates the problem of waste in seas, oceans and rivers, threatening aquatic ecosystems around the world. this regulation will require states to choose between two options. the first is to take measures to ensure that the average consumption of lightweight bags does not exceed 90 pieces per capita by 2019 and 40 pieces by 2025, or to ensure that by 2018 retailers do not distribute these bags for free. plastic bags thinner than 50 microns, which account for the vast majority of the total number of plastic bags used in the union, are less suitable for reuse than thicker plastic bags, which makes them more prone to becoming waste and more likely to be discarded into the environment.
written. ‒ the adverse effects of climate change, which are partly the result of poor waste management, are unavoidable today. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the waste prevention and management legislation and will continue to monitor the implementation of the waste prevention and management legislation. the commission has also found that the measures in question are not compatible with the internal market. the agreement reached in november 2014 sets long-term targets for reducing the annual consumption of plastic carrier bags by 2019 and 2025 respectively, which ultimately points to the right way to handle plastic carrier bags. however, i consider that the provisions and the unrealistic deadlines for their adoption, as well as the lack of relevant statistical data for each member state, undermine the principle of subsidiarity and the possibility of implementing these measures in individual member states. the first priority should be to focus on the methods of proper waste management and sorting, rather than creating an additional administrative burden for the member states, and that is why i voted in favour of abstention.
written. ‒ shipping is the only transport sector not included in the eu's efforts to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. at union level, the maritime sector currently emits around 3% of all greenhouse gases and this figure is expected to grow as the economy continues to grow. it is necessary to establish a unified system for the monitoring, reporting and verification of greenhouse gases by seagoing vessels in order to have accurate and actionable data on their environmental and energy performance. this is one of the prerequisites for reducing greenhouse gas emissions in shipping and reducing fuel consumption.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the draft legislative resolution of the european parliament on the council position at first reading with a view to adopting a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the monitoring, verification and reporting of carbon dioxide emissions from maritime transport and amending directive 2009/16/ec, as it is a proposal to introduce a system for monitoring and reporting carbon dioxide emissions from maritime transport and thereby contribute to environmental protection.
written. ‒ one of the targets of the european union 2020 strategy is to reduce carbon dioxide emissions from maritime transport by 40%. the commission should be able to assess the impact of the measures on the marine environment and the marine environment in the light of the findings of the review of the union's maritime policy. i support the recommendation of mr farija and believe that the introduction of an emissions monitoring, reporting and verification system will result in better future union climate change decisions and will be an impetus for a global debate on this issue. the system should serve as an example for the creation and implementation of a global monitoring system and alignment with global standards.
written. ‒ emissions from international shipping today account for 3% of global greenhouse gas emissions and 4% of eu greenhouse gas emissions. the projections foresee a global share of 5% by 2050 and significant increases at eu level, with figures ranging from 51% to 86%, depending on the year used as a reference. the eu's climate and energy package sets an ambitious target for reducing greenhouse gas emissions in all sectors, however there is no legal obligation for the shipping sector to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and no binding targets have been agreed for shipping. as other transport sectors are covered by mandatory greenhouse gas emission reductions, it was necessary to apply the same rules to maritime transport. the establishment of a system for monitoring, reporting and verifying co2 emissions will apply to ships of more than 5000 tonnes. i am particularly pleased that fishing vessels are exempted from this obligation, because they are not involved in trade but in the pursuit of an original economic activity.
written. ‒ i support the report by mr farija on the council position at first reading with a view to the adoption of a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the monitoring, verification and reporting of carbon dioxide emissions from maritime transport and amending directive 2009/16/ec. given that maritime transport is the only type of transport not included in the european union's guidelines and targets for reducing carbon dioxide emissions, and that this type of transport is responsible for 3% of total carbon dioxide emissions, i also support the rapporteur's proposal to accept the council's position without amendment. the commission has also proposed that the member states should be able to apply the principle of proportionality to the reduction of co2 emissions from ships by 2020 and to the reduction of emissions from ships by 2030. the system for monitoring and measuring co2 emissions from ships at european level is necessary to collect information on both the efficiency of ships and to encourage reductions in co2 emissions and fuel consumption, which is why i once again support it.
written. ‒ international maritime transport is the only transport for which the exact co2 emission allowance has not yet been set. the introduction of fuel consumption controls may have an additional impact on climate change caused by excessive carbon dioxide emissions. the proposal is to make shipboard documentation mandatory by july 2015 on fuel status, the routes the ships travel and the cargo they carry, with the aim of reducing annual co2 emissions by 2% and fuel savings of eur 1,2 billion by 2030. i support this proposal and its further consideration.
written. ‒ i supported the report on co2 emissions from the maritime sector because maritime transport is the only sector not covered by the eu's greenhouse gas reduction commitments. the objective of that regulation is to provide a framework for a system for monitoring, reporting and verifying greenhouse gas emissions from ships of more than 5 000 gross tonnage. the current lack of monitoring and reporting makes it impossible to have a clear and precise view of the state of emissions from maritime transport in order to reduce them. greenhouse gas emissions from maritime transport at eu level account for 4% of total emissions. the commission has also proposed to amend the existing rules on the use of the landfill site by the member states. the commission has adopted a regulation opening up new possibilities in the shipbuilding sector. innovation and eco-renovation of existing ships also provide a great opportunity for croatian shipyards. the commission has also concluded that the aid is compatible with the internal market within the meaning of article 107 (3) (c) of the treaty. a large number of croatian passenger and merchant fleet vessels will be covered by the newly established measurement framework. ferries like the marco polo will prove inefficient in terms of fuel consumption and greenhouse gas emissions. the success of croatian shipbuilding would be the application of successful green innovations in the mentioned types of ships.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution which provides for the monitoring and verification of co2 emissions from transport which are not in line with eu objectives, which would lead to negative impacts on climate change. the exact amount of co2 and other eu-related greenhouse gases in maritime transport is not known due to the lack of monitoring and reporting of such emissions. the commission should be able to assess the impact of the measures on the marine environment and the marine environment in the light of the experience gained in the implementation of the measures.
written. i voted in favour of the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the monitoring and verification of carbon dioxide emissions from maritime transport and amending directive 2009/16/ec. the main objective of the directive is to establish a system for monitoring, reporting and verifying (mvr system) co2 emissions from maritime transport, with the aim of achieving a global mvr system. globally, ship emissions are very high, and they are also a growing source of greenhouse gases that cause climate change and contribute to the decline of marine biodiversity. according to the data, over 19 000 ships of more than 5 000 gt have entered the eu, representing 60% of the world fleet. ships over 5,000 gt emit 90% of all carbon dioxide emissions. croatia has only 45 ships over 5 000 gt, and our registers have 1 497 ships with a total of 1 462 458 gt. monitoring co2 emissions, i.e. collecting information, would allow the company to increase its energy efficiency and reduce co2, which is a goal we all need to strive for. we also have to think about the ambitious eu target we have set, which is to reduce greenhouse gas emissions from international shipping by 40% by 2050, or 70% of total co2 emissions in the member states by 2020. that is why i welcome this resolution.
written. ‒ i support the text because it calls for changes in european statistical measurement to keep pace with global developments.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the draft legislative resolution of the european parliament on the council position at first reading with a view to adopting a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending regulation (ec) no 223/2009 on european statistics, in view of the importance of statistical data for policy-making, the need to adopt measures to improve the credibility of statistical data, the independence of the statistical institutions, the management of statistics, european coordination with national statistics and their co-responsibility.
written. ‒ statistical data must be accurate, true, comprehensive and comparable. they monitor developments in the member states, compare countries with each other and define recommendations for necessary reforms, with the aim of achieving shared growth and development. in practice, there have been instances of attempts to hide or misrepresent statistical data, sometimes due to lack of knowledge of the methodology, and sometimes deliberately with the aim of concealing shortcomings in the functioning of the state and the economy. such actions are subject to penalties and statistical systems must not be subject to political decision-making. i supported the report on the amendment of the legal framework for european statistics, as it insists on strengthening the independence of the national statistical authorities while pointing out the high degree of responsibility they have. it is requested that specific measures be established per member state to improve the national statistical system and to comply with the european statistics code of practice. the legal framework for the wider use of administrative data for the production of european statistics is also established. the main objective of this amendment is to further strengthen the european statistical system, its independence and the production of high-quality data which are a key basis for decision-making and good governance. that is why i supported this report on european statistics.
written. ‒ the adoption of a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending regulation (ec) no 223/2009 on european statistics (05161/2/2015 c8-0073/2015 2012/0084 ((cod)) will strengthen the professional independence of the national statistical authorities and the credibility of statistics. the reliability of statistical data is a prerequisite for ensuring the confidence of users, and the credibility of the institutions responsible for producing statistics is equally important. this regulation calls for a revision of the existing underlying legal framework for european statistics, adapting it to meet the needs and challenges of policy-making for european statistics in the light of recent developments in the world economy. the regulation also refers specifically to the heads of the national statistical offices as persons whose independence in the performance of their duties is a prerequisite for establishing the independence of the institutions concerned and includes the establishment of an 'obligation of confidence in statistics'. in view of the above and given the high likelihood of positive effects of this regulation, i support the proposal for a regulation and the council's position.
written. ‒ i support the positive report by mr bayet on the council position at first reading with a view to the adoption of a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending regulation (ec) no 223/2009 on european statistics, following the recommendations and opinions of the european central bank of 6 november 2012 and of the spanish congress of deputies and senate and the austrian federal council, submitted under protocol no 2 on the application of the principles of subsidiarity and proportionality, which states that the draft legislative act is not in line with the principle of subsidiarity.
written. ‒ it is essential to continue work on strengthening the professional independence of national statistical authorities in order to ensure the full credibility of statistical data at member state level, but also at eu level. to that end, it is necessary to define in the amended regulation measures that achieve the legally guaranteed independence of statistical authorities, prevent political pressure and guarantee the highest standards of statistical data processing. it is therefore good that the statistical authorities of the member states will not be able to seek or receive instructions from national political authorities through their heads. it is equally important to ensure the independence of the statistical system at european level. the statistical office of the european communities (eurostat) is indispensable for the european institutions to be able to take quality and informed decisions at all stages and levels of their work. reliability of statistics is also rightly sought through a stronger european statistical system - the coordination of eurostat, the national statistical institutes and other national statistical authorities. for all these reasons, i welcome the commission proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending regulation (ec) no 223/2009 on european statistics, support the council's position at first reading and the recommendation of the bayet rapporteur.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution because i believe that the governance of the european statistical system (ess) needs to be strengthened by ensuring the unconditional application of the principle of professional independence of the national statistical institute (nsis), by clarifying its role as coordinator in the national statistical systems and by increasing the use of administrative data for statistical purposes. the proposal calls for a revision of the existing underlying legal framework for european statistics, adapting it to the policy needs and challenges created for european statistics by recent developments in the global economy. the main objective is to further strengthen governance in the european statistical system in order to safeguard high credibility and to respond appropriately to the data needs arising from the enhanced coordination of economic policies in the european union.
written. i supported this proposal as it will ensure a higher quality and credibility of statistical data in the member states of the european union on the basis of which, ultimately, we in the european parliament and the european commission make our decisions. it is of particular importance that member states establish national authorities responsible for carrying out statistical analyses to ensure that their credibility is not undermined. i consider it even more important to apply and standardise the methodology when processing data, and for this to happen all the member states' institutions and other state bodies responsible for this must be coordinated. i believe that eurostat must remain an independent body that will guarantee effective supervision of all the statistical offices of the member states, all in order to give citizens of the union easy access to data. the adoption of the report will ensure up-to-date and credible statistics in all member states, which will also allow investors to efficiently access the necessary information, which may lead to an increase in investment in the member states of the union.
mr president, the marine strategy framework directive is a comprehensive and demanding act that is crucial in implementing a coordinated policy of the member states with the aim of sustainable management of the marine environment based on an ecosystem approach. the management of commercial stocks and of species that are subject to by-catch is crucial for the sustainability of ecosystems. at a time when the fishing opportunities far outweigh the ecological balance and the catch is greater than the potential for natural recovery of the species, without respecting the ecosystem approach to fisheries management we will not achieve the desired objectives of good environmental status by 2020, nor ensure sustainability in this important frontier economy that should ensure future generations the benefits we enjoy today.
written. ‒ i support this report, as it is the first multiannual plan under the reformed common fisheries policy and as such will also serve as a model for other upcoming multiannual plans in fisheries. the plan aims to ensure the sustainable exploitation of cod, herring and mackerel stocks in the baltic sea and to ensure the stability of fisheries in accordance with all aspects of ecosystem and environmental protection.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the draft legislative resolution of the european parliament on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council establishing a multiannual plan for the cod, herring and sprat stocks in the baltic sea and the fisheries exploiting those stocks, amending council regulation (ec) no 2187/2005 and repealing council regulation (ec) no 1098/2007. this is an important multiannual management plan that takes into account multiple species that are interconnected and interact. it is also important because these three species - cod, herring and papalina in the baltic sea - account for over 94% of catches in recent years, and there are risks of overfishing and the consequences for the ecosystem of the baltic sea's closure. such a plan may serve to develop other management and exploitation plans for fish stocks in other seas and for fish that interact with each other.
‒ 94% of the total baltic fisheries catch is cod, herring and sprat. this report aims to ensure a balanced exploitation of the stock, taking into account the interaction and impact of these three species on each other and the sustainability of the entire ecosystem. i support the report by mr wałęsa, who agrees with the commission's proposal that a management plan for all fisheries in the baltic sea is needed because this approach is more efficient. such a plan should ensure optimum exploitation of the catch and the stability of the fisheries in the baltic sea. detailed scientific research is needed to establish the current state of the baltic sea fish species, their role in the ecosystem and to determine the period during which fishing is prohibited. as this is a long process, we can conclude that this is just the beginning of creating a single marine ecosystem management plan, which should be an example for other seas.
written. ‒ i support the report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council establishing a multiannual plan for the cod, herring and sprat stocks in the baltic sea and the fisheries exploiting those stocks and amending council regulation (ec) no 2187/2005 and repealing council regulation (ec) no 1098/2007. this is the first multiannual plan to serve as a model for all future ones under the eu's common fisheries policy, as the primary objective is to protect fisheries above the level that makes them sustainable, based on the principle of sustainability of the overall ecosystem and management of fish stocks. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the proposal to include the conservation of fish stocks in the mediterranean, and to extend the scope of the proposal to include the conservation of fish stocks in the mediterranean.
written. ‒ i support the multiannual plan for fisheries in the baltic sea. the reports on the current state of fish species and their interrelations in the ecosystem show that there is a need to revise the rules adopted in 2009. a plan is needed that has three priority points: 1. the biological relationship between the three main species of fish: cod, herring and parrotfish; 2. the exact determination of the maximum catch that does not threaten the reproductive stock units; and 3. the catch determined by the time period. in addition to the above criteria, it is good that proposals have been suggested for the implementation of measures for the detailed monitoring of fisheries species in the baltic sea with a strong oversight by the bsac.
written. ‒ i supported a multiannual plan for cod, herring and sprat stocks in the baltic sea and the fisheries exploiting those stocks. the union has a conservation obligation, including the maintenance or restoration of populations of harvested species at levels that can produce the highest sustainable yield. the objective is to establish a fisheries plan for a large number of species taking into account the dynamics between the cod, herring and sprat stocks and the input of species in the fisheries to those stocks, i.e. plaice, mackerel, herring and plaice in the baltic. the objective of that plan should be to restore, achieve and maintain populations of the species concerned above levels that can produce the highest sustainable yield for the stocks concerned while minimising the impact on other species such as seabirds and on the wider marine environment.
written. fishing is one of the main economic activities of most of the baltic states. it is subject to the influence of various biotic and abiotic factors which condition its unfolding and direct its development. the correct management and protection of the renewable resources of the sea requires that account be taken of the biotechnological, technical, economic, legal and all other aspects which have a decisive influence on the development of fisheries. in recent years, there has been a massive poaching of juveniles, threatening the diversity of the species and devastating the undersea environment. cod, herring and sprat are important fisheries in the baltic sea. the current exploitation rates for some of those stocks are not in line with the achievement of the maximum sustainable yield and it is necessary to find the best possible solution that will ensure the sustainable exploitation of the stocks without harming fishermen by introducing unrealistic quotas. i therefore support the proposal to establish a management plan for cod, herring and papalina stocks in the baltic, as the plan should ensure sustainable fisheries while taking account of biological and environmental benefits. it is therefore necessary to cooperate with the profession and to base management on the latest scientific information.
written. ‒ i supported the report on the establishment of a multiannual plan for cod, herring and sprat stocks in the baltic sea and the fisheries exploiting those stocks, as i believe it properly sets out the framework for the management of those stocks. this is necessary because these three species account for more than 94% of the catches in the baltic sea in recent years. in addition, this regulation is very important as these three species are continuously interacting in the baltic sea and it is therefore useful to recognise the impact of cod on herring and parrot stocks and vice versa. in particular, i support the fact that this report does not grant any new powers to the commission beyond those set out in the basic regulation, but gives the member states concerned the possibility to make recommendations in order to agree on appropriate solutions in accordance with their current situations.
written. ‒ i support this report which is a compromise and gives fishermen the opportunity to adapt, after which it will be sanctioned to throw unwanted catches back into the sea. in any case, efforts should be made to eliminate this harmful behaviour of fishermen at sea, and landing sites for such fish are one way to address this problem. we must take account of the needs of fishermen to enable them to do their jobs successfully, but also take care to protect marine flora and fauna.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending council regulations (ec) no 850/98, (ec) no 2187/2005, (ec) no 1967/2006, (ec) no 1098/2007, (ec) no 254/2002, (ec) no 2347/2002 and (ec) no 1224/2009 and repealing regulation (ec) no 1434/98 as regards the landing obligation, although i consider that such a proposal is very difficult to apply in particular to small fishermen, but i want to believe that both landings also mean sustainability in fisheries. i support the proposed amendments as the amended proposal also introduces a transitional period for the full implementation of the landing obligation and introduces selectivity and flexibility in its implementation. i believe that other regulations to help fishermen will follow the commissioner's discussion. the aim is to end the practice of discarding fish and to contribute to the conservation of the marine ecosystem, eliminating unwanted or unnecessary catches along the way. the ultimate aim is to strengthen the fisheries in the long term.
written. ‒ these changes represent a step forward towards the efficient and sustainable use of the marine ecosystem. the new regulation will introduce an obligation for fishermen to land and store 'inadvertent catches' (catches below the reference minimum) and breach of this obligation would be characterised as a serious infringement. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the fishing opportunities for bluefin tuna are not reduced. the commission has also proposed to amend the fishing opportunities for norway lobster in the baltic sea, in particular by introducing a new fishing zone for norway lobster in the baltic sea. since they are exempt, i supported this report.
the reform of the common fisheries policy adopted in 2013 brought about fundamental changes to the rules applicable to fisheries. the commission considers that the exemption from the landing obligation is justified by the fact that the landing obligation is not applicable to the species concerned. the commission shall be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 26 to amend this regulation by supplementing it with new rules. as this landing obligation regulation conflicts with several existing eu regulations currently in force, the commission requested the amendment of seven regulations to bring them into line with the regulation of the basic common fisheries policy. the landing obligation represents a radical change for fisheries and 2015 will therefore be a test year for the implementation of this change, from which messages for further application should be drawn. the commission has also provided for an adjustment period of two years during which infringements of the landing obligation will not be considered as serious infringements.
written. ‒ according to the un, a quarter of all fish caught in the european union is discarded, the most in the world, because it is not the species that the fishing fleets wanted to catch. the way that member countries dispose of surplus fish has for years been a source of outrage to the public and to environmental organizations. the problem is particularly acute in northern europe. there, fishermen target certain species, and others that they don't have a quota or a license for, and they find themselves in their nets, they throw them into the sea. you don't catch a lot of unwanted fish in croatia. we have in the cage catch maybe ten to twenty percent of that catch, in the swimming pool almost nothing, and in the other nets and so on that catch is quite negligible. regardless, while we limit small fishermen to catching any fish for personal use, the big ones throw tons of unwanted fish back into the sea. this system is absolutely unacceptable, which is why i support the new proposal to harmonise european regulations on this issue and i hope that it will really lead to a reduction in the amount of fish discarded.
written. ‒ i support the obligation to land catches in order to ensure that the existing rules are applied as much as possible and to reduce catches and conserve fish stocks. this application is of particular importance to me as a representative from croatia, where the lives of many fishing families are directly linked to the regulation and enforcement of overfishing regulations. the implementation of technical measures in fisheries and controls is key to sustainable development and to prevent further fishing.
written. ‒ i supported the european parliament resolution on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the landing obligation. the basic objective of the regulation is to progressively eliminate discards in all fisheries in the european union by introducing an obligation to land catches of species subject to catch limits and of species covered by minimum sizes in the mediterranean sea. in order to make the landing obligation operational for the catches of the species covered by it as from 1 january 2015, certain provisions under the current regulations concerning technical and control measures which are contrary to the landing obligations and which require fishermen to discard fish need to be deleted or amended.
written. i supported the commission's proposal on landing catches as it is complementary to the european parliament's proposal of february 2013 on the progressive implementation of landings with a view to reducing waste and preserving marine flora and fauna, which entered into force in the member states on 1 january 2015. the commission should also be able to assess the impact of the proposed measures on the union's fishing fleet and on the union's fishing industry. the commission should be able to assess the impact of the landing obligation on the fishermen concerned, taking into account the impact of the landing obligation on the fishermen concerned. i therefore believe that a step-by-step approach and gradual adaptation of legislation can make a more significant contribution to the success of this regulation, namely the achievement of the ultimate objective of protecting the blue economy and protecting our seas.
written. ‒ russia is an important trading partner for croatia, but also for other eu countries. croatia has to be taken into account in the existing agreements between the ec and russia.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the recommendation for a draft council decision on the conclusion, on behalf of the european union and its member states, of the protocol to the partnership and cooperation agreement establishing a partnership between the european communities and their member states, of the one part, and the russian federation, of the other part, to take account of the accession of the republic of croatia to the european union, given that it concerns the alignment of rights and obligations which is necessary in view of the accession of the republic of croatia to the eu.
written. ‒ i support the recommendation of the landsbergis rapporteur which aims to promote trade and provides a framework for cooperation in various sectors between the eu and russia. unfortunately, following the russian aggression in ukraine, the european union has imposed sanctions on russia, and the republic of croatia, as a full member state, accedes to international agreements signed or concluded by the european union and implements the decisions taken. we believe that in the shortest possible time the russian aggression will be ended and the annexed part of crimea will be returned to the administration of ukraine, thus creating the conditions for the lifting of the embargo and the resumption of trade between the eu and russia.
written. ‒ i support the conclusion, on behalf of the european union and its member states, of the protocol to the partnership and cooperation agreement establishing a partnership between the european communities and their member states, of the one part, and the russian federation, of the other part, to take account of the accession of the republic of croatia to the european union. the republic of croatia has been a full member of the european union for almost two years, fully aligned with the european union's policies towards russia, which is why it is also important that the agreements of the european union, in this case with the russian federation, are aligned with croatia's accession to the european union.
written. ‒ i supported the recommendation on the protocol to the partnership and cooperation agreement establishing a partnership between the european community and the russian federation to take account of the accession of the republic of croatia to the european union. as the agreement concerns overall economic, financial and technical cooperation, the accession of croatia to the european union changes the whole economic picture of the union to a great extent. add to that the recent sanctions imposed by the european union on russia, and trade as well as investment by the signatories of the treaty are further changing the economic situation. the sanctions package has also changed the economic picture of croatia, bearing in mind that croatia has lost approximately 1,5% of its total exports of agri-food products worth between usd 20-25 million.
written. ‒ in this proposal, which i voted in favour of, the council was invited to adopt a decision with a view to approving, on behalf of the european union and its member states, the protocol to the partnership and cooperation agreement establishing a partnership between the european community and its member states, of the one part, and russia, of the other part, to take account of the accession of croatia to the european union.
written. croatia and russia already have a tradition of developing trade cooperation. croatia has seen a sharp increase in exports to the russian market in the last few years, and russia has become one of croatia's leading export partners. last year was also one of croatia's best export years to russia, with exports of about $420 million. the eu has also adopted a number of measures to promote the development of the tourism sector. among other things, the previously regulated trade agreements between croatia and other member states ceased to be valid. in particular, in order to better understand the legislative powers in relation to trade, i believe that the existing eu legislation needs to be adapted, i.e. made understandable to all users. i therefore support the adoption of a protocol to the partnership and cooperation agreement establishing a partnership between the european communities and their member states, of the one part, and the russian federation, of the other part, to take account of the accession of the republic of croatia to the european union.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the protocol to the partnership and cooperation agreement establishing a partnership between the european community and the russian federation to take account of croatia's accession to the eu. the adoption of this protocol provides the necessary framework for trade relations, transport, investment and technical cooperation and applies to the common market, with a regulated partnership with the russian federation. the settled relations and additional investments, as well as increased economic cooperation, are extremely important for the further development of relations between croatia and russia, and are welcome as an incentive and opportunity for domestic businessmen to export. therefore, as a representative of the republic of croatia, i support this step towards further strengthening economic relations and cooperation between the two countries. croatia, as a member of the european union, should be fully involved in its acquis.
mr president, the main message of this report is that the bologna process needs to be reformed and new models of education developed, which i fully agree with. the bologna process started in 1999 and is now being implemented in the 47 countries that make up the european higher education area. it was introduced with the aim of raising the quality and standardisation of higher education, and allows for the recognition of qualifications and diplomas and the mobility of students and professors. it is the exchange of knowledge, experience and practice at different universities that is the best way to improve quality. when we draw a line today and look at the results of 15 years of work on the bologna process, we see positive changes in terms of better organisation of higher education and the possibility of comparing education systems in the member states. but a major shortcoming still exists, and that is the lack of connection with the needs of the labour market. that's why we need urgent changes.
written. ‒ i support this report by ms łybacke, as an initiative in the run-up to the upcoming ministerial conference in yerevan on 14-15 may. while there have been many achievements in the areas of implementation of the bologna process, there are large disparities in its implementation across participating countries. given that youth unemployment is the biggest problem in the eu, i think it is extremely important that the european parliament sends a clear message to the forthcoming conference in yerevan, so that we can take a stronger stance on youth and thus contribute to a better and more quality education for young people in the future.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the bologna process monitoring report because i support the accompanying analysis of the situation, the numerous initiatives and proposals, the priorities and challenges it sets out, and the prominent role of the bologna process. harmonised, transparent, quality higher education is crucial for cultural, economic and social development, and the bologna objectives should ensure the achievement and realisation of a successful european higher education in the current challenges of modern development. in this context, it is necessary, inter alia, to take a realistic view of the situation, the achievement of the objectives and the accelerating changes in society and the economy, to strengthen links with research and development, to promote the possibilities of applying new technologies and, in addition, to coordinate the operation of european programmes supporting the bologna process.
written. ‒ the report focuses on the importance of making the most of the available resources and finding new funding models and reviving the bologna process in its important role in the revision of the europe 2020 strategy, as well as in the juncker investment plan for europe. improving the quality of higher education and establishing quality assurance systems is a high priority for many countries. the european standards and guidelines for quality assurance and the key objective of the european higher education area have been revised and are subject to approval by the ministerial conference in may 2015. my assessment is that the success of the bologna process is partial, the recognition of diplomas and the mobility of young people is the greatest success achieved by this process, but the process is also characterised by the emergence of new higher education institutions and programmes that have failed to provide adequate quality education. this is confirmed by the fact that we have more and more highly educated young people who cannot find their place in the labour market. the european commission has published a report on the implementation of the european social fund's work programme for the period 2007-2013.
written. ‒ coherent, transparent and quality higher education is essential for cultural, economic and social development. the objectives of the bologna process provide essential means for european higher education to successfully face the current challenges. however, there is still a long way to go to achieve these goals. for example, the system of recognition of higher education diplomas between member states is not yet fully implemented, so croatian citizens, for example, face difficulties in recognising their qualifications in certain eu member states. it is important that the upcoming ministerial conference in yerevan in may 2015 provides an objective and critical overview of the progress and setbacks in achieving the 2012-2015 priorities with a view to further consolidating the ehea and strengthening the bologna process.
written. ‒ i support the report by ms łybacke on the need to monitor and analyse the implementation of the bologna process. the launch of the bologna process in 1999 gave added meaning to the european project which has since sought a more integrated and harmonised education system among the countries of the european higher education area. i expect a good assessment of the results achieved over the past 15 years, particularly in terms of competitiveness and employability of graduates, mobility, guarantees of recognition of academic achievements and the uneven application of the bologna system in the member states. the first moves of the new juncker commission put the focus on measures for growth and employment, especially for young people, of whom some 5 million in the eu are still out of work. the bologna system should be upgraded in the coming period through the objectives of this resolution. the biggest challenge for national governments is to adapt education systems to the real needs of the labour market and to offer young people skills that can lead to jobs. it is important that the seven-year eu financial framework does not reduce development funding for education, innovation and research, in particular that provided for under horizon 2020, in order to achieve the objectives of the europe 2020 strategy. i also believe that support is necessary for countries such as croatia, where the bologna system is being revised, because in recent years there has been no greater recognition of first-year qualifications by employers.
written. ‒ i supported the report on the follow-up to the bologna process because it is one of the fundamental public policies aimed at strengthening the european spirit and creating european citizenship. unfortunately, in most member states, this cleverly conceived policy is not being successfully implemented. the exchange of knowledge and education of young people, as well as the different educational experiences of young people, are key elements on the way to successful and long-term economic development. the croatian market does not know the real difference between a bachelor's and a master's degree and in 90 percent of cases graduated bachelors are not recognized in the labor market, therefore they continue with an additional degree of education. education is one of the main pillars of our society, so i call on the european and national authorities to provide more administrative and financial support to the process.
written. ‒ i supported the resolution on monitoring the implementation of the bologna process, which calls on member states to further improve and update the assessment of higher education institutions against standards previously established within education systems at international level, and which reward excellence in order to advance knowledge, research and science. it is important to preserve the diversity of teaching, including linguistic diversity, and to encourage member states to increase scholarships and ensure their easy availability.
the bologna declaration is the foundation for the harmonisation of education systems in european countries, signed in june 1999 with the aim of creating a european higher education area (ehea) by 2010. it succeeded, but not completely. i must give the example of croatia, where all universities operate on the "bologna" basis and where progress has been made in the structure of higher education, coordination and quality and student mobility, but not enough care is taken to recruit teaching assistants and non-teaching staff, there is not enough financial resources and equipment, international cooperation is not sufficiently developed, and the division of the four largest universities makes it difficult to clearly define the mission and policy of future development. all these problems have a significant impact on the quality of the university's work. for the reasons stated above, i supported this report because it speaks of maximising the use of eu funds to fully implement the bologna strategy with a view to finding new funding models, and welcomes the fact that president juncker of the european commission has also put emphasis in his investment plan for europe on improving and restoring the quality of higher education.
written. ‒ i supported the report on the monitoring of the implementation of the bologna process, which points to the need to adapt the education system to the labour market, focusing primarily on strengthening skills and knowledge and improving education. as i have already pointed out, i cannot support employment mobility, because the emigration of a workforce certainly cannot have a positive impact in view of the demographic and economic consequences that emigration can have for individual countries, and in particular for the poorer member states, but the mobility of pupils and students for the purpose of acquiring knowledge and training can only represent a positive trend. the effects of the bologna process presented in the report show that the experiences students gain by studying abroad or by carrying out a professional practice certainly contribute to their autonomy, cultural enrichment, knowledge of foreign languages and ability to work in multicultural environments. therefore, i support any form of initiative for young people that will enable them to be educated in the spirit of entrepreneurship and ultimately contribute to a better understanding of the real needs of the market and the shortage of human resources.
mr president, the figures for 2014 show that twice as many american films were shown in europe as european ones. european films are usually only seen in the country where they were made. it is necessary to strengthen the european film industry, and these are alarming figures to point to this, and to develop quality financing instruments. we have one of the sources of funding, the creative europe programme of the union, which has a budget of 1.5 billion euros for the period 14-20 but for the entire film industry of the european union and the entire cultural sector at the level of the european union. the media programme finances the development of new films, the search for partners and promotion beyond national borders. this sub-programme co-finances the development and distribution of a thousand films a year and i am pleased that the beneficiaries from the republic of croatia have managed to realise four projects. i supported this report which encourages the creation of legal frameworks for public and private investment and the promotion of the european film industry.
written. ‒ the text recognises european cinema as an important cultural, social and economic dimension. copyright protection is at the heart of this. i support the motion.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on european cinema in the digital age as films are both economic and cultural assets and contribute to the growth of the european economy and employment and to the shaping of european identities by reflecting cultural and linguistic diversity, promoting european culture across borders, facilitating cultural exchange and understanding. this report takes into account various important aspects such as encouraging the european film industry to further develop innovative services, new business models and distribution channels; audience development; cross-border distribution and accessibility; considers that all those who have an economic benefit, even indirect, from european cinema works through direct commissions, marketing or dissemination, including links or video-on-demand commissions, should financially contribute to the creation of european films; proposals for funding; calls on member states to strengthen their efforts to improve film literacy; distribution and archiving, etc.
written. - today we rightly call the media age. the media is a means of public communication. taking into account the cultural and economic potential of the audiovisual sector, the european film industry should thrive with a stable and flexible regulatory framework that encourages investment and diversity, develops media literacy and allows new services to develop online. film culture is also part of culture. in europe, therefore, film is not just a product to be made, but a clear reflection of the identity of a country or the values of a people. a film can be entertaining, but it should also be educational and have a message. to get a film to an audience, you need adequate promotion and a venue for presentation, and those venues are still theaters. the closure of small and independent cinemas, especially in small towns and less developed regions, has therefore led to limited access to european cultural resources, heritage and dialogue, and in this context i support the call to the commission and the member states to support the equipping of all screens with digital projection and sound technology in order to preserve such cinemas.
written. ‒ the potential of the cultural and creative sectors in europe, and in particular the european film industry, has yet to be fully exploited by promoting european cultural and linguistic diversity and heritage within and outside europe, and by creating growth and jobs that can also benefit other sectors of the economy, giving europe a competitive edge at global level. i am glad that the rapporteur has recognised this and has highlighted in her report why i supported it.
written. ‒ i support the report by the romanian mep, bruno wente, on european cinema in the digital age. i think that the problems of the non-competitiveness of european cinema, limited distribution and promotion, lack of funds and fragmentation of the market are well recognised. the cultural and creative industries can be an important factor for growth and employment, accounting for over 4% of the union's gdp and employing 7 million people. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's policy on the environment and its implementation in the member states. the commission should continue to facilitate access to finance for small and medium-sized cinematic companies and encourage tax relief for audiovisual works through the media guarantees. this should take into account better protection of copyright, discouraging piracy and a level playing field for service providers. the new projects, such as the parliament's 'lux' prize for achievements in cinema, are also important in order to increase the visibility of european cinema. the resolution encourages faster digitisation and media convergence to promote european films outside the eu, to preserve film heritage and to increase innovation and flexibility. the commission will also be able to use the newly created european digital single market to support the development of the european film industry. as vice-president of the ep's committee on foreign affairs, i have consistently stressed that the european cultural heritage as a whole should be better used as a tool for cultural diplomacy that can strengthen the european union's external action.
written. ‒ i supported the european parliament's resolution on european cinema in the digital age as films and economic and cultural goods make a major contribution to european economic growth and employment, and at the same time help to shape european identities by reflecting cultural and linguistic diversity, promoting european cultures across borders and facilitating cultural exchange and mutual understanding among citizens, and contributing to the formation and development of critical thinking. the european film industry, with 1500 films released in 2014, is one of the world's largest film producers and one of the key objectives of the digital single market is to build trust in the internet and improve access to legal audiovisual content, thereby contributing to investment in european films.
written. i believe it is of great importance to support the strengthening of the effectiveness of existing funding tools in order to achieve a better competitiveness and diversity of the european film sector, especially in the development, promotion and distribution of films. the european film industry has all the potential to develop, but we must also not ignore the cultural and economic potential of this sector, which contributes to the growth of the european economy and employment and at the same time helps to shape european identities by reflecting cultural and linguistic diversity, promoting european culture across borders and facilitating cultural exchange and mutual understanding between citizens. they also contribute to the formation and development of critical thinking. the commission should also be able to use the existing legal framework to provide for the possibility of a new legal framework for the union's financial sector. the commission should be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 290 tfeu concerning the conditions for the participation of the union in the union programme 'horizon 2020 - the framework programme for research and innovation (2014-2020) '. the european film industry has the potential to develop a cultural and creative sector in europe that would certainly help promote european cultural diversity and heritage, but also, most importantly, what concerns croatia and many european countries, would contribute to achieving sustainable growth and job creation that would benefit other economic sectors and would give europe a competitive advantage at global level.
written. ‒ i supported the report on european cinema in the digital age as it stresses the need to advance the european film industry by encouraging a stable and flexible legislative framework. i also support efforts to promote and distribute european films better and to promote european cultural and linguistic diversity through film production. the commission will continue to support the development of the european film industry, in particular through the development of new technologies and the creation of new jobs. i find it particularly useful to encourage local and national investment in film production and to focus strongly on the importance of the film industry as part of the creative industries in the wider economy. in addition, i believe that it is clearly stated that copyright must guarantee adequate remuneration to the holders of those rights and that the possibility of contributing to growth and job creation is recognised.
mr. chairman, i originally intended to support this strategy. in the end, i did not support the strategy, i abstained, because the amendments of the committee on the environment, public health and safety were passed. these proposals, in my opinion, as well as in the opinion of the czech experts, give a strong preference to the environmental element of forest protection over the interests of the owners, who must be able to make a living from the forest in some way and therefore have a certain economic viability. i didn't support this element. in the czech republic, for example, the association of municipal and private forest owners in the czech republic was also against, and i consulted them professionally on the whole matter. in my view, we must find a compromise between the protection of the forest and the interests of the owner, who cares for the forest and must also live off the forest. only balanced interests can sustain the strategic development of a forest area in the long term.
mr president, although it is not responsible for the development of a common forestry policy, certain european union policies can have an impact on national forestry policies. wood is a renewable resource, but it is often under-exploited and it is necessary to ensure an intelligent and sustainable use of this raw material. i believe that a new forest strategy should also place a strong emphasis on forest conservation. the examples from croatia show that the theft of forests, the devastation of roads built over decades, and the like are the result of a vague division of powers. often, the authorities fail to respond to alerts under the pretext of outdated cadastral plans or to help those in danger while the real business is developing. we often say that one cannot see the forest for the trees. it's worth more now that we don't see the forest for profit. the new eu forest strategy must not only have an agricultural dimension. forests are far more important; they are europe's lungs, a source of energy, a guardian of climate and biodiversity, and they should be respected for their importance. because unfortunately, it's much easier to create a desert than a forest.
mr president, the economic use of forests must always be geared towards the sustainability of forests and forested areas, in order to preserve their quality and economic potential for future generations. forests can be a generator of green economy in rural areas, a source of timber construction and a source of renewable energy. forests are also an important element in the fight against climate change, and this contribution of forests, although well known, has not been adequately valued. forests are also the richest reservoir of biodiversity, and the ways in which forests are managed have a significant impact on the quality of the environment and, ultimately, on human health and well-being. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the forestry law and the implementation of the forestry law. that is what this strategy is about, and i thank mrs köstinger for incorporating that very proposal into it.
mr. president, the forestry sector employs over 3.5 million people. in view of the social, economic and environmental role of forests, it is of the utmost importance to invest in research and development in this sector, to manage forests sustainably, to promote their multifunctional role and to use resources efficiently. the increasing use of energy sources, wood biomass and the growing need for wood require even more responsible and sustainable forest management. this report raises awareness of the importance of the forestry sector for the european union, and croatia, with its scientific achievements and expertise, which are based on a long-standing forestry tradition, can make a major contribution to the sustainable development of this industry as a driver of employment, year-on-year growth and the survival of rural areas, which is our common goal.
written. ‒ the report on the new eu forest strategy has caused divisions and significant differences of opinion between the political groups in the sectoral committees from the outset. this is particularly the case with regard to the decision of the rapporteur in the agri committee to disregard the opinion of the environment committee. i could not support the document in the form in which it was put to the vote in plenary, but thanks to the amendments of the s&d group, the text was changed and improved at the last minute. as a result, the strategy will have a holistic approach with more emphasis on sustainability and the wise use of resources, which i can certainly support. however, i have to express a reservation about the part of the text which relates to the habitats directive, namely its unnecessary nature.
written. ‒ i voted for the report on the new eu strategy for forests and the forest-based sector, as i believe that such a strategy is necessary even though the european union is not responsible for the formulation of a common european policy and the issue of forests and forestry is a matter of member states' political competence. the text of the strategy is good enough to promote this important economic sector (3.5 million employees) and an important resource for maintaining the local and global ecosystem. it is important to ensure intelligent and sustainable management of forest resources. i support the fact that the competence for the above mentioned issues should continue to have local and regional or national characteristics with the need to align with common european interests and needs.
written. ‒ this year in croatia we are marking 250 years of organised forestry, and today the total area of forest and forest land in the republic of croatia is 47.5% of the country's land area. forests in the republic of croatia are known for their great biodiversity and the fact that 95% of the forest area is natural, which is the result of a long forestry tradition of sustainable management. this is the potential that the republic of croatia contributes to the european average, and the experience of forest management according to the specificities of individual regions is valuable knowledge that our foresters possess. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the forestry policy in the member states, in particular through the use of the european forestry strategy. the main characteristic of croatian forests is their naturalness due to the management of native species in a way of natural rejuvenation. this is not the way of management used in all eu countries and that is why i believe that as a member state we should have control of forestry policy, applying everything that the eu's common forestry policy can bring to us, because the global threats to forests do not know national borders.
written. ‒ i support the report by ms köstinger and the european parliament's motion for a resolution on a new eu strategy for forests and the forest-based sector. forests cover more than half the territory of some member states such as sweden, finland, slovenia and estonia. in particular in those countries, but also across the union, it is of the utmost importance to manage forests in a sustainable way. this will create added value at local, regional, european and international level in terms of guaranteeing jobs in rural areas, contributing to a bio-based society, having a positive impact on human health, but also protecting the environment and climate, as european forests currently absorb and store around 10% of the union's carbon emissions. forests also play a crucial role in the bioeconomy today, a sector of the economy with a turnover of more than eur 2 billion and 20 million jobs, representing 9% of total employment in the union. the commission should continue to invest in bioeconomy research and development under horizon 2020 as the commission estimates that each euro invested will generate around eur 10 of added value. a key part of the strategy is a skilled and well-trained workforce. the commission and the member states should therefore prepare measures and, where possible, make use of the full range of existing european instruments (eafrd, erdf, esf and et 2020).
written. ‒ i supported the adoption of a new forestry strategy because i believe that an effective european approach is essential to deal with current challenges and potential threats that know no borders in a sustainable and competent way. as the shadow rapporteur of the green/efa group for the opinion of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety on that report, i am extremely pleased with the amendments i have proposed. i was particularly interested in the multifunctional role of forests in preventing soil erosion, purifying and retaining water, preventing flooding, and so on. i have achieved the adoption of a european approach to combating the diseases, pests and nuisance that seriously affect european forests and pose a particular challenge to smaller member states such as croatia, which is currently facing the extinction of species such as fir, chestnut or ash. citizens of croatia have lived in symbiosis with forests for centuries and it is necessary to maintain this relationship on the principles of sustainable development.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the new eu strategy for forests and the forest-based sector, which calls on member states to support forest owners in their efforts to conserve and grow the indigenous mixed forests that are common to a given area. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the eu's forestry policy and will continue to monitor the implementation of the eu's forestry policy. the use of wood and other recovered wood products as renewable and environmentally friendly raw materials on the one hand and sustainable forest management on the other hand play an important role in achieving eu social policy objectives such as energy transition, climate change mitigation and adaptation, and the europe 2020 and biodiversity goals.
written. forests are the natural habitats of many animal and plant species, providing a wide range of benefits to mankind. forests are our oxygen factories, our best tool in the fight against climate change, they protect against soil erosion and help to preserve and regulate geographical climates. forests also have a great social and economic importance in the production of industrial and food products. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's forestry policy and its implementation in the member states, in particular through the implementation of the union's integrated approach to forestry. forests in croatia occupy 37% of the total area of the state territory, and of this more than 90% is self-growing natural forest, which puts croatia at the very top in quality and healthy forest preservation in the european union. the commission notes that the wood used for the production of the wood products is not only used for the production of wood products, but also for the production of wood products for the production of wood products. it is therefore of the utmost importance to support the report on new forest strategies that are consistent with smart management that results in rural development, improved quality of life, cleaner air, more jobs and ultimately the health of the planet for us and future generations.
written. ‒ i supported the report on the new eu strategy for forests and the forest-based sector because i think it emphasises very well that the european union is not responsible for developing a common forestry policy, but that certain policies can have an impact on national forestry policies and that member states are allowed to make their own decisions on forestry and forest policy approaches. the commission will continue to support the implementation of the eu's forestry strategy, in particular through the implementation of the eu's forestry strategy, the eu's forestry strategy and the eu's forestry strategy. while recognising the different ownership models in the member states and highlighting the importance and multi-purpose role of forestry as an ecological, economic and social resource, the need for increased cooperation in tackling cross-border challenges such as forest fires, pests and illegal logging is also underlined.
mr president, you pronounced my surname very well, which is not normally done in italian, i must say. the european parliament, the council and the commission have adopted a number of legislative proposals aimed at ensuring that the european union is able to take action in the fight against terrorism, including through the use of the internet. this is something which our group believes in and which we all in this parliament want to see especially fulfilled. i want to make one thing very clear, because i'm asking for a word, but it's a fact that in our community, in the balkans, we still have a great threat of terrorism. we have security as well as organized crime and the police, europol, eurojust and all the other institutions that are cooperating with their institutions, the countries that are candidates and the countries that are potential candidates in the balkans and i think it's important for our security.
the question he raised by raising his blue card. i want to ask you, how are we going to control the money that the european union gives not only to member countries, but also to those countries that are not members and they get our money and they can cheat us, and those are all those countries that are just trying to become members and that we fund? so, my question is, and i want mrs. maccovey to hear it, too. my question is: do you agree with me that the one who gives money has the right to control how that money is spent and has the right to also penalize those who don't spend their money properly?
madam president, i am always very careful when someone in parliament speaks to the media and sources coming from the media. however, there's also too much evidence, there's too much doubt, there's too much talk to make this discussion pointless. in fact, this debate makes sense and this debate should be a support to the german parliament in solving and controlling everything that was happening, in investigating what was happening when we talk about the work of the nsa and the bnd. what i want to stress is the need for a multilateral agreement in europe. we really don't need to spy on each other, so i guess we can have enough trust in each other, trust in our citizens, trust in our institutions, trust in ourselves, and in that way actually protect our citizens and protect our economy, protect the very political system that we believe in.
madam president, mr commissioner, we need money, we need short-term financing for our economy, and of course without it, and if it goes, it will be more difficult for the european economy. but at the same time we need european legislation, because european legislation must guarantee the necessary stability for monetary funds to be able to function properly. and i agree that we especially need these money funds to enable small investors, and that's why i support these two basic principles, the principle of clarity or transparency, as they like to call it, and the principle of diversification. i think that it is precisely on the basis of and starting from the fact that we have european legislation, transparency and diversification that monetary funds will be, in the way they are conceived, generally accepted and for the benefit of the european economy.
the question he raised by raising his blue card. i want to ask you: where does your hostility towards those countries that receive eu aid, that want to become our members come from? how can you say such unpleasant things when my colleagues and i, who were minister for european integration in the republic of croatia, have been receiving european union aid and have now come to this parliament and become your colleague? i have a feeling you have something against us. i don't think it's right the way you're acting, my esteemed colleague.
mr president, it is not possible to talk about 52 dismissals in one minute, but it is very useful to study these dismissal proposals, because you can really learn a lot from them and find out what is really happening within the bodies of the european union. there are a number of things that have been dragged through all the reports, but what i've taken up is the question of the credibility of the european union in these cases. the credibility of the agencies first, all the frauds that exist in the various discharge procedures are not a reason not to grant discharge, but i would like to draw attention to the credibility of the european union in the work of all these agencies. and the second is the credibility of the european union, which is the problem of the default in terms of funding cohesion policy. those who want europe perhaps most are competing for eu money. let's help these people, because the default has caused a lot of problems for many entities in the european union.
the question he raised by raising his blue card. i would like to ask you, honourable member, although i understand your anger and your tone of voice to some extent, do you not think that this decision by the commission, which has increased the prefinancing from 1% to 33%, has finally shown the credibility of the european union and the interest of the european union, the european commission and this parliament in protecting, as far as possible, the interests of young people, and especially unemployed young people? do you think we are credible this time, finally in this parliament?
mr. president, we have a great proposal coming from the commission. i believe that this is great and joyful news for all the young people of europe, because what the european parliament has asked for has been recognised. the european commission has come up with a proposal for a really radical increase from 1 to 33 percent of pre-financing for the youth guarantee scheme. i think this is something we have been waiting for for a long time and i think that in this way, madam commissioner, we will show the credibility of the european union, because this is how we show that we care about solving the problem of unemployment, especially in the southern countries of the european union. what remains, and what is a rope that may burst and not do the job properly, are the member countries. i urge you, therefore, to make every effort to see that we are kept in this firm until the end.
mr. president, i would like to first of all thank my esteemed colleague depreza for his efforts in bringing this document before us and i would like to emphasize what was said, which is that we need to invest in our security. we need to invest in both the physical security of the buildings in brussels, and in this building, and of course we need to invest in our cybersecurity. there's no dilemma here because we're certainly a perfect target for those who don't like us. i would like to emphasize the same thing, and part of this debate, the problem of assistants and funding of our offices has caused a great debate in croatia. i'm interested to hear how further thinking is going on in this context so i can respond to some of the situations in the media in croatia. will the assistants still be accredited in brussels? will there be a continuation of the present work? and of course i'm also curious, when will all of this come into effect? because that's also something that's completely unclear.
member of the commission.– mr president, i would like to thank the members for this discussion. i would not like to give here the impression that the commission is not doing anything. i mentioned that we have several pieces of legislation where other forms of protection for whistle-blowers is included. it was said here that whistle-blowers must be respected because they fulfil a very important task for society, for democracy and for law and that we should protect them; however, as i said before, this should be done mainly through national legislation. as for the european level, i have already mentioned that protection has been included in the market abuse directive. data protection was also mentioned, so i would like to inform you that the article 29 data protection working party issued guidance for the member states on how to protect whistle-blowers within data protection legislation at national level. i would also like to inform you that the anti-money-laundering directive which was adopted in december 2014 contains a part which includes the protection of those who report suspicious financial transactions; this is also very important. to go back to the luxleaks, which was mentioned several times, i hope you understand that the commission cannot interfere in the member states’ jurisdictions as is the case described here. however, we are taking the necessary measures to increase the transparency on tax rulings. this is a preventive measure to fight tax evasion and tax avoidance which would better protect whistle-blowers. on the european level, we want to introduce measures through which the public will get information in a very transparent way on the advantages that are provided by the member states to companies in the tax sphere. we at the commission have already approved the first step, which is reporting by the member states. this reporting will use a central register, so everybody will see where these tax rulings are adopted. the second step would involve country-by-country reporting, also from the companies themselves. this will be assessed in the course of the next few months to be sure that it will be the most efficient measure to fulfil the purpose, which is transparency and full information provided to european citizens. i believe these preventive steps will also help us fight tax evasion and tax avoidance, and, together with the protection of whistle-blowers at member state level, this can help solve the problems we spoke about here.
written. the protection of journalists, whistleblowers and anti-corruption activists who expose tax evaders is clearly in the public interest and in the interest of taxpaying citizens. the legal framework for the effective provision of such protection is highly uneven across the eu member states. so we have a number of examples of pressures, insults and serious threats that journalists and whistle-blowers face when they disclose information about individuals, i.e. criminals who defraud tax authorities. some member states have adequately protected journalists and whistle-blowers. the commission shall be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 26 to supplement this regulation by laying down detailed rules on the application of this regulation. it is necessary to preserve the anonymity of the person who exposes the criminals. but i do warn against the fact that national regulations within the eu often fall short of international standards and best practice. in changing this situation, we meps must also be more active and responsible. i am also concerned that we are only getting general assessments from the european commission of the situation in the protection of whistleblowers and journalists, with the explanation that the legislative regulation is in the hands of individual member states. we must give journalists and whistleblowers who expose tax evasion scandals solid guarantees and safe protection. i therefore believe that the commission must do more in the area of harmonising national legislation and standards on the protection of journalists and whistleblowers who disclose tax evasion.
mr president, the sinking of ships and the death of thousands of people in the mediterranean sea are a warning to us all. we may not be able to eliminate the suffering of the entire world, but we can do much more to prevent such events from happening again. and by that i mean, first of all, a more qualitative approach to the problem itself, which many unfortunately see as a good platform for political breakthrough. the thing is actually very simple: europe has no room for all the unhappy people of the world, but it must not allow them to die on its doorstep either. so the problem needs to be addressed at its source in africa. the european union, as the largest donor to third countries, must channel this money into programmes to combat human trafficking, establish better cooperation with african countries' institutions, ensure the rule of law and improve socioeconomic conditions in those countries. i deeply believe that no one wants to leave their home unless they're forced to. then let's help create the conditions for these people to stay on their feet.
mr president, the latest tragedy in the mediterranean calls for a renewed focus on the eu’s external and development policies and on building inclusive and effective institutions in countries that are today in complete chaos or ruled by corrupt elites which bring such misery to their citizens that many of them prefer to risk their lives on a boat than to stay in their oppressed homelands. these desperate people are ready to give their life savings – sometimes up to eur 10 000 – to smugglers and traffickers in exchange for a promise to reach the shores of europe. imagine what a win-win situation it would be to allow these people to invest this money in their own countries, to start a business and build a new future for their families. yet they cannot do it because they are almost certain that there is no future for them in their countries, which are torn apart by corruption and violence. this is exactly why we need to refocus our external and development policies on combating corruption, fostering the rule of law and good governance, promoting peace and security, and confronting, where necessary, corrupt and oppressive regimes. as the grandchild of migrants, i say this based on my own family’s experience. in the late 1940s my grandmother escaped from communist yugoslavia. while she was thankful for reaching the free world, she became really happy only when her homeland was finally freed from oppression and we eventually came back to croatia. i am sure that this quest for freedom is universal and that the eu has a moral obligation and a strategic interest to avoid more tragedies in the mediterranean by promoting peace, security and the rule of law in a firmer and more assertive way in the countries of origin. this should be the priority for our external and development cooperation policies.
mr. president, no one would leave their home if it was safe. obviously, all these people are pushed back by tragedies, by terrorism, by everything that's happening on the african continent, but not just there, but in other parts of the world, other parts of europe. i am particularly sensitive to this issue as i come from a country of only four and a half million people, which only 25 years ago took in 550,000 refugees, which means more than half a million and another 150,000 refugees had to leave croatia and go abroad. therefore, we cannot stand by and watch the tragedy of these people. more than 3200 lives have been lost in the mediterranean. i'm in favor of quotas in a way that we have criteria, and that's the criteria of the economic strength of the country and the number of inhabitants. it is the only way to respect the principle of solidarity and i think it will be the final solution for all. i thank you, and i believe this is the number one foreign policy issue.
mr president, the deaths of almost 5000 people in the mediterranean last year and this year cannot leave anyone indifferent. we need an immediate response. i therefore welcome the decision to triple the funding for operation triton, allocating €120 million from the european budget to save lives in the mediterranean. but it's certainly not enough, the problems of the 15 million refugees on their way to europe cannot be solved in one move. the solution to illegal migration is not to open the door to legal migration. but we must not close our eyes to those in need. without any doubt, migration is one of the most important european problems, a challenge for the european union as a whole and one that the european union itself must confront and show solidarity with. but first, we need to address the causes. the european union must start to fight harder against smugglers and traffickers who have sold thousands of families out of their lives by promising them a better life. it is also necessary to help stabilize conditions in africa so that people do not have to leave their countries. they need to be provided with a decent life on their hearths and in their homes. that's the minimum that every human being deserves!
written. ‒ i voted for the discharge report on the implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2013, part iii. - commission and executive agencies the commission has also confirmed that all relevant revenues and liabilities are in compliance with the laws and regulations and that no major errors were made by the european commission in the calculation of the member states' contributions and their payments. however, there are some observations which do not diminish the discharge and which relate to errors in payments and to the excessive number of financial corrections which, although they have been prevented significantly, still need to be reduced.
written. ‒ the court of auditors' report for the financial year 2013 found that there were no irregularities in the accounting documentation. on the basis of the court of auditors' report, i supported the report on discharge to be given to the commission in respect of the implementation of the budget for the financial year 2013 and on discharge to be given to the executive agencies.
written. ‒ the court of auditors' finding shows that the 2013 annual budget of the union is legal in all material respects, but that a large number of transactions were affected by errors. the european parliament's committee on budgetary control pointed out that, due to the unacceptable position of the council during the negotiations on the annual budget of the union and despite the high level of payments, the accounts showed outstanding financial commitments of eur 322 billion, which is likely to increase in 2014, contrary to the treaty provisions. the commission shall have the ultimate responsibility for the implementation of the union budget. the report shows that of the total amount paid in 2013 under this policy group (eur 45 311 million), 96% went to regional policy, eur 1 059 million to mobility and transport and eur 758 million to energy. they stressed that reducing youth unemployment was particularly urgent (more than €12.4 billion from the european social fund and the youth employment initiative were earmarked). the commission shall be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 290 concerning the establishment of a european union agency for the evaluation of medicinal products for human use (hereinafter referred to as 'the agency'). i also supported this discharge because of the projects to be financed by shared management and the transparent channelling of money to projects in all member states.
written. ‒ i agree with the commission's progress report, but it is worth stressing that there is still work to be done in regularly and timely informing parliament of its activities, especially in the financial sphere. the european commission's role as the executive of the european union and as the institution that represents the interests of the eu as a whole is immense and i hope that it will continue to act in the common interest of all citizens of the european union, especially in proposing quality legislation. i welcome the inclusion of social policy as well as employment policy in the european commission's and its executive agencies' sphere of activity.
written. ‒ i support the report by ingeborg gräßle on discharge in respect of the implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2013, but i believe that parliament should have a greater role in controlling expenditure and that the commission should better manage the eu budget. given that the court of auditors has not been able to give a positive guarantee statement for 20 consecutive years on the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions, i believe that better long-term solutions are needed to achieve budgetary discipline. in the context of the economic crisis, it is important that the european commission and the member states promote a culture of performance with an emphasis on results achieved, based on the principle of efficiency, effectiveness and economy. the commission shall be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 26 to supplement this regulation by laying down detailed rules for the application of this regulation. i believe that the new internal structure of the commission under the presidency of jean-claude juncker will allow for a more efficient and effective use of funds and for progress in financial management.
written. ‒ i support the above-mentioned discharge report on the implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2013. in addition, i call on the committee on budgetary control to pay particular attention in the draft resolution it adopts to the fact that the lack of payment appropriations is creating increasing discrepancies between the union's international commitments and the very ambitious new instruments in relation to the commitments the union has made to its global partners and other bodies. such a situation calls into question the reputation of the union itself, which is in no way conducive to external relations. another area of imbalance that i would like to mention is the energy sector. the use of mergers in the energy sector is primarily focused on large projects with a low emphasis on local energy solutions. i would like to call for a bottom-up approach to energy infrastructure development to ensure universal access to energy for all by 2030.
written. ‒ i welcome the fact that the revenue underlying the accounts for the year ended 31 december 2013 is legal and regular in all material respects and that the union's annual accounts for the financial year 2013 present a realistic and objective view of the union's position as at 31 december 2013 in all material respects. i therefore support the discharge for the implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2013. but i find it unacceptable that there have been significant errors in payments for 20 years in a row and that the monitoring and control systems are only partially effective and that therefore payments are affected by a probable error rate of 4,7%.
mr. president, today i supported this increase in pre-funding for operational programs funded by the youth employment initiative. this is a very important signal from the european parliament to all member states that it is important to speed up the implementation of the youth employment measures financed by this initiative in practice. the problem is that the signal was given two years ago when we said that the initiative must be used in 2014 and 2015. however, in many member states we see that not a single euro has been used. unfortunately, my country, the republic of croatia, is one such example. so, still the initiative hasn't started using, and the young people are unemployed. over 40% of young people are out of work and these funds and these measures need to be put in place now, otherwise they will leave and leave their countries and the whole of the european union and we have to stop that.
written. ‒ the european social fund is an important instrument to help, especially in situations where emergency intervention is necessary. by increasing pre-funding, helping to get help when it's needed most, without delay, i support the change.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending regulation (eu) no 1304/2013 of the european parliament and of the council on the european social fund as regards an increase in the amount of initial pre-financing for operational programmes supported under the youth employment initiative, as this creates conditions for a better use of eu funds targeted at young people. youth unemployment is one of the biggest problems facing the eu today. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's macro-financial assistance to the countries of central and eastern europe, in particular through the european neighbourhood instrument (enpi) and the european neighbourhood instrument (enpi). this initiative to increase pre-financing from 1% to 30% (totalling eur 930 million) demonstrates the eu's seriousness in tackling the above mentioned problem.
written. ‒ i supported the amendment of the regulation of the parliament and the council on increasing pre-financing for operational programmes financed by the european youth employment initiative and the pre-financing was increased from the initial 1% to 30%. the youth employment initiative amounts to eur 6,4 billion at eu level for the period 2014-2020, of which eur 3,2 billion is from the european social fund and eur 3,2 billion from the dedicated budget line for youth. the amount of assigned revenue in accordance with article 21 (3) of the financial regulation is estimated at eur 100000. this flexibility is established because the problem of youth unemployment in most member states is burning and requires urgent action. the situation is also dramatic in croatia where youth unemployment is extremely high so that young people go to other countries to look for work. so i regret that croatia has used almost nothing of the €132.3 million allocated to this initiative and i hope that this will change soon.
written. ‒ two years after the adoption of the youth employment initiative (yei), we cannot be satisfied with the results at eu level, mainly because of the lack of funds. this is particularly true in the member states most affected by the crisis, where youth unemployment rates are also the highest. i welcome this commission proposal to increase by up to 30 times the amount that member states receive to encourage the employment of young people during the year. this will ultimately benefit up to 650 000 young people, who will be able to find jobs more easily. the commission's measures are not a permanent solution, as the problems need to be fundamentally changed structurally in order for the 'youth guarantee' to come to full fruition. there are many reasons why young people are in such a disadvantaged situation: the economic crisis, the inadequacy of the education system to meet the needs of the labour market, and the insufficient social sensitivity of employers. but we need to do everything we can to prevent our most educated generation from becoming the lost generation.
written. ‒ i support the report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council increasing the initial pre-financing rate for operational programmes under the youth employment initiative from the initial 1% to 30%. by releasing a total of eur 1 billion already in 2015 for pre-financing youth employment programmes, the commission is showing greater determination to tackle the priority issue of youth unemployment and social exclusion, as this rate remains above 20% in the eu. the commission has also received a number of comments from interested parties. at the same time, the opinion of the budget committee shows that the measure is financially compatible with the emff, taking into account that the commission should take into account the financial plan if the accelerated implementation of the projects in 2015 leads to a lack of funds for other payments from the european social fund. the commission shall directly assist member states with high youth unemployment that have too few reserves in their budgets to pre-finance those programmes. croatia, the third country in the eu with the highest youth unemployment rate at 46.4%, has been granted an advance of €19.8 million for the implementation of the youth guarantee programme, instead of the initial €660,000. this financial boost should be used more quickly and efficiently by national governments to prepare concrete measures to bring young people into the labour market.
written. ‒ i supported the resolution on the proposal for a regulation whereby the commission decided to act quickly to free up €1 billion so that member states can launch the projects they need. the budget will provide a significant incentive for pre-financing for operational programmes in 2015, thus allowing member states to make a fresh start in their efforts to combat unemployment. the decision aims to achieve a pre-financing rate of between 1% and 30% as the member states most affected by youth unemployment and having the greatest difficulties in securing co-financing.
written. i support the european commission's proposal to promote youth employment. support is urgently needed as the unemployment rate has been rising in recent years. the european commission's proposal to release the funds needed for projects to be implemented in the member states in the field of youth unemployment is urgently needed. the eu has developed in recent years instruments that should effectively address youth unemployment in the member states. the most vulnerable groups to think about and pay particular attention to are young people, especially those with low levels of education, the descendants of immigrants and young people with health problems and difficulties. prefinancing in 2015 will reinforce the operational programmes needed to combat unemployment. it is necessary to start implementing the regulation as soon as possible.
written. ‒ according to a report presented by commissioner jourova, more than 20% of rapex alerts are related to textile products. i am in favour of putting special emphasis on the import of safe goods in contracts with third countries.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council repealing council regulation (eec) no 3030/93 on common rules for imports of certain textile products from third countries, since the explanations (russia, serbia, china) show that the reasons for the functioning of such bilateral agreements have disappeared and there is therefore no need for that regulation.
written. ‒ the report by mr lange concerns a proposal to repeal the council regulation on common rules for imports of certain textile products from third countries with which the union has concluded bilateral agreements, protocols or other arrangements. in recent years, the only countries with which the union has such agreements are russia and serbia. given that russia has become a member of the world trade organisation and serbia has signed the stabilisation and association agreement with the european union, this regulation loses its meaning. the same regulation provided for quantitative restrictions on certain textile products originating in china and specific safeguard mechanisms which expired in december 2013. in the interest of legal certainty and simplicity, i support the report on the repeal of council regulation (eec) no 3030/93.
‒ council regulation (eec) no 3030/93 on common rules for imports of certain textile products from third countries applies to imports of textile products originating in third countries with which the european community has concluded bilateral agreements, signed protocols or other arrangements. in recent years, this regulation has only concerned bilateral textile trade agreements between the european union and russia and serbia. following the accession of russia to the world trade organisation and the entry into force of the stabilisation and association agreement with serbia, council regulation (eec) no 3030/93 lost its main purpose. for the above reasons, i supported the proposal to repeal council regulation (eec) no 3030/93.
written. ‒ i support the rapporteur's position on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council repealing council regulation (eec) no 3030/93 on common rules for imports of certain textile products from third countries, at first reading. given that russia has acceded to the wto and the stabilisation and association agreement with serbia has entered into force, that regulation has lost its footing and i therefore support its repeal.
written. ‒ i have supported the report of the european parliament and of the council on the proposal for repealing council regulation (eec) no 3030/93 on common rules for imports of certain textile products from third countries, which applies to imports of textile products originating in third countries with which the european community has concluded bilateral agreements, signed protocols or other arrangements. that regulation is no longer necessary because in recent years the european union has maintained bilateral textile trade agreements only with russia and serbia. following russia's accession to the world trade organisation, the republic of serbia became the last country with which the european union had bilateral textile trade agreements. the basic purpose of council regulation (eec) no 3030/93 has been lost with the entry into force of the stabilisation and association agreement with serbia. i am of the opinion that in addition to progress in public administration, judicial and anti-corruption reforms, serbia should demonstrate a stronger commitment to regional cooperation. the chapters on the rule of law, economic governance and active and constructive engagement on kosovo and the normalisation of their relations are the main subjects on which the duration of accession negotiations depends. since accession to the european union, croatia's exports to serbia, as well as serbia's exports to croatia, have increased significantly, which should certainly be welcomed.
written. ‒ i voted to repeal council regulation (eec) no 3030/93 as the european union maintains bilateral textile trade agreements with russia and serbia. following the entry into force of the stabilisation and association agreement with serbia, council regulation (eec) no 3030/93 has lost its main purpose and should be repealed in order to promote legal certainty.
written. i voted in favour of council regulation (eec) no 3030/93 on common rules for imports of certain textile products from third countries applies to imports of textile products originating in third countries with which the european community has concluded bilateral agreements, signed protocols or other arrangements. bilateral textile trade agreements have been used by the european union to regulate trade with russia and serbia. however, russia joined the wto on 22 august 2012 and the stabilisation and association agreement entered into force for serbia, which made the other rules valid and lost the basic purpose of the council regulation (eec). that regulation was also used to introduce quantitative restrictions for certain textile products originating in the people's republic of china during a limited period of time which expired in december 2013. given that the european union has not had the need to use the said agreement in the last few years, the possibility to implement safeguard measures through this mechanism has expired and for reasons of legal certainty i consider that the proposal should be supported and regulation (eec) no 3030/93 of the council should be repealed.
written. ‒ i supported the repeal of the council regulation on common rules for imports of certain products from third countries. new technical conditions have been created for the termination of the existing bilateral agreements, protocols and arrangements governing the import of textile products from third countries. as russia, serbia and china are involved, it is important to note that russia has acceded to the world trade organisation, the stabilisation and association agreement has entered into force in serbia, a transitional safeguard mechanism has been established for china and the regulation of their relations through new agreements has also ended the purpose of this regulation.
written. ‒ i support this report because it is a technical adaptation of the proposal for a directive of the european parliament and of the council codifying council directive (eec) no 1692/73 of 25 june 1973 on the safeguard measures provided for in the agreement between the european economic community and the kingdom of norway.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the safeguard measures provided for in the agreement between the european economic community and the kingdom of norway (codification), since, in the opinion of the consultative working party of the legal services of the european parliament, the council and the commission, the proposal in question is limited to the codification of existing texts and does not contain any substantive changes.
‒ the european union and its institutions are making a major effort to simplify documents to make them more accessible to citizens in order to better understand and exercise their rights. the eu-norway agreement was signed more than 30 years ago and has been amended several times. it aims to continuously improve the economic relations between the community and the kingdom of norway and to remove all obstacles in order to ensure fair conditions of competition and the development of trade. i support the report by mr dude on the codification of the safeguard measures provided for in the agreement between the european economic community and the kingdom of norway implementing the codification of existing texts, without any change in their content.
written. ‒ this codification relates to the part of the regulation governing the implementation of bilateral safeguard clauses which seek uniform conditions for the adoption of safeguard measures. the commission shall, in turn, adopt applicable implementing acts, where justified, addressing specific situations, such as export aid, which may have a direct and immediate effect on trade. the text also consolidates the rules governing the decision-making procedures provided for in the agreement. in the context of a citizens' europe, i welcome the commission's efforts to attach great importance to simplifying and explaining union law in order to make it clearer and more accessible to citizens and to give citizens the opportunity and the opportunity to exercise their specific rights conferred on them by union law. this objective cannot be fully achieved as long as many provisions, which have been amended several times, are often and substantially scattered across different acts and must be sought partly in the original act and partly in the amending acts. to find the rules in force requires therefore extensive research and comparison of many different acts. it is precisely for the sake of the correct application of this regulation, both between the parties to the agreement and the shareholders to whom this regulation has legal effect, that i consider the proposed codification necessary as it contributes to greater legal certainty in the application of the act.
written. ‒ having regard to the interinstitutional agreement of 20 december 1994 on an accelerated working method for the official codification of legislative texts and to the opinion of the consultative working party of the legal services of the european parliament, i support the adoption of the position at first reading, adopting the commission proposal adapted to the recommendations of the consultative working party of the legal services of the european parliament, the council and the commission.
written. ‒ i support the report by mr andrzej dude on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on safeguard measures provided for in the agreement between the european economic community and the kingdom of norway, as the consultative working party of the legal services of the european parliament, the council and the commission has found that the proposal is limited to the codification of existing texts and does not contain any substantive changes. the consolidation of council regulation no 1692/73 of 25 june 1973 will replace the various acts subsequently incorporated into it. the new regulation brings together scattered acts, which contributes to transparency and openness, and the european parliament thus confirms its support for simplification, making union law clearer and more accessible to eu citizens. the codification of frequently changing acts is crucial in simplifying and explaining european union law to make it more accessible. i welcome the continued efforts of the expert services of parliament, the council and the commission in the codification procedures covered by the interinstitutional agreement of 20 december 1994 on an accelerated working method for the official codification of legislative texts.
written. ‒ i supported the regulation which replaces the various acts included in it and fully preserves the content of the acts which have been codified. in the interests of clarity and transparency of union law, the purpose of this project is to undertake the codification of regulation (eec) no 1692/73 on safeguards provided for in the treaty between the european economic community and the kingdom of norway.
written. i voted in favour of the codification of the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council codifying council regulation (eec) no 1692/73 of 25 june 1973 on the safeguard measures provided for in the agreement between the european economic community and the kingdom of norway consultative group. the legislative acts of the european union are frequently amended and supplemented. and they're scattered throughout the different texts. the legislative acts of the european union must be clear and transparent. the aim of codifying the regulation is to consolidate existing legislative acts, without substantial amendments, in order to make them more accessible to citizens so that they can exercise their rights more easily. as the advisory group, after examining all the acts, concluded that this is merely a codification of the legislative text without any substantive changes, i agree with the commission's proposal.
written. ‒ i strongly support albania's european path and believe that the country is on the right track in the pre-accession process. albania has made enviable progress in eu accession in recent years and was therefore granted candidate status in june 2014, but much more effort is needed on the albanian side to implement the necessary reforms. this applies in particular to the judiciary, the fight against corruption and organised crime and freedom of the media. such substantial reforms require a broad political consensus and i therefore call on all parties to cooperate on the european pathway by country.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the adoption of the stabilisation and association agreement between the european communities and the republic of albania, as it confirms the european perspective of the republic of albania. i was deeply convinced that the balkans, which have been troubled for centuries, would only become a region of stability and prosperity once all the balkan countries had become members of the european union. unfortunately, after my recent visit to albania, i saw that there is still much to be done politically and economically, but, regardless, i give my positive assessment in the form of hope for the future.
written. ‒ the stabilisation and association agreement with the republic of albania was signed in 2009 and aims to support albanian efforts to strengthen democracy and the rule of law. the european union has committed itself to helping develop the economy and international cooperation through harmonisation of legislation and a gradual transition to a free trade area. albania should also continue to develop regional cooperation in order to meet the expectations of the agreement and create a european state. i support the report of mr dude's representative confirming that the amendments proposed by the commission are only formal amendments which do not change the substance of the agreement.
‒ the committee on legal affairs adopted the report by mr andrzej dud on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on certain procedures for applying the stabilisation and association agreement (saa) between the european communities and their member states, of the one part, and the republic of albania, of the other part. this decision has been amended several times and, in the interests of clarity and rationality, and on the basis of the 1987 decision of the european commission and the 1994 agreement between the parliament, the council and the commission, the need for codification has been identified. council regulation (ec) no 1616/2006 has been substantially amended and the new proposal for a regulation will take into account the different acts included therein, while fully preserving the content of the acts to be codified, with minor formal changes. the consolidation of the regulation relates to the stabilisation and cooperation process under the agreement of the same name, which is an important step towards albania's accession to the european union. as i have always advocated transparent legal texts, without the need to consult them painstakingly in the form of multiple amendments and supplements which, often in an unclear manner, are passed through the various acts and which make it difficult for interested parties to find and read, and ultimately to apply, these acts, i welcome this codification.
written. ‒ having regard to the interinstitutional agreement of 20 december 1994 on an accelerated working method for the official codification of legislative texts and to the opinion of the consultative working party of the legal services of the european parliament, i support the adoption of the position on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on certain procedures for applying the stabilisation and association agreement between the european communities and their member states, of the one part, and the republic of albania, of the other part, at first reading.
written. ‒ i support the report by mr andrzej dude on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on certain procedures for applying the stabilisation and association agreement between the european communities and their member states, of the one part, and the republic of albania, of the other part. since the consultative working party of the legal services of the european parliament, the council and the commission has established that the proposal is limited to the codification of existing texts and does not contain any substantive changes, i consider it necessary to adopt the position at first reading. the purpose of the proposal is to codify council regulation (ec) no 1616/2006 of 23 october 2006 laying down certain procedures for applying the stabilisation and association agreement between the eu and albania. the new regulation will replace the various acts incorporated in it, thus contributing to transparency and openness. codification of frequently changing acts is crucial in simplifying and explaining european union law in order to make it clearer and more accessible to citizens, and i therefore welcome the further efforts of the expert services of parliament, the council and the commission in the codification procedures.
written. ‒ i support the codification of the association agreement between the european union and albania in order to continue further progress and reforms in the country's international and internal affairs. the agreement is just one more step towards mutual integration and stronger ties. i believe that albania has constructive relations with its neighbours and that its alignment with the eu's foreign policy can serve as a good example. i am pleased with the progress of the political dialogue between the european union and albania, but i stress the need for reforms of the public administration and the judiciary, the fight against corruption and organised crime and the strengthening of the protection of fundamental human rights. the agreement provides for the importation of fishery products originating in albania into the union at a reduced customs duty within the framework of tariff quotas and therefore detailed rules on them have been adopted. the customs duties on imports and exports between the european union and albania shall be zero. the customs duties on imports into the eu of agricultural and food products from the republic of albania shall be zero, except for young bovine animals, sugar, fish and fishery products and wine. all of the above contributes to a more free trade for the benefit of both parties.
written. ‒ in the interests of clarity and rationality, the purpose of this proposal is to codify council regulation (ec) no 1616/2006 of 23 october 2006 on certain procedures for applying the stabilisation and association agreement between the european communities and their member states, of the one part, and albania, of the other part, and for applying the interim agreement between the european community and albania. that's why i voted for this resolution.
written. i agree with the commission's view that albania should be helped to strengthen its administrative capacity as soon as possible and to implement in an economically sustainable manner all the reforms necessary for the country's integration into the eu. the cooperation between albania and croatia is of particular importance in economic and political terms, with infrastructure and energy projects linking the two countries being of particular importance. it is primarily the adriatic-ionian pipeline and the adriatic-ionian road. coming from the very south of croatia, dubrovnik, i am particularly concerned about the waste problem in albania. albania has no developed waste management system, and we have often witnessed an environmental disaster when waste from albania is dumped into the adriatic sea. at present, the waste from albania is ecologically threatening the croatian coast, but it is a potential threat to italy and greece. albania needs to make a major effort in the area of crime prevention, i.e. work on strengthening cooperation in the fight against drug trafficking. the proximity of the border poses a serious threat to croatia, i.e. the territory of the eu, becoming a transit channel for organised crime. therefore, we must support albania to implement fundamental reforms as efficiently and quickly as possible and to implement them in the legislative, judicial and civil structures of society.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of accepting the stabilisation and association report and the interim agreement on trade and trade-related matters with bih. these political steps finally open up a european perspective for bosnia and herzegovina. as the country that suffered the most in the last war in the balkans, it is time for bih to open a dialogue with the eu and its bodies. this, of course, also requires appropriate behaviour from the political leaders in bih who are most responsible for the future of their country.
‒ the stabilisation and association agreement between the european union and bosnia and herzegovina was signed on 16 june 2008 in luxembourg. on the same day, the interim agreement on trade and trade-related matters was concluded and entered into force on 1 july 2008. the parties shall endeavour to ensure that the provisions of this agreement and the provisions of the gatt 1994 and the world trade organization are applied in a manner consistent with the objectives of the agreement. the advisory groups of the legal services of the european parliament, the council and the commission concluded that the commission's proposal to amend the codifications of existing texts was without any change in their content and i therefore supported this report.
written. ‒ having regard to the interinstitutional agreement of 20 december 1994 on an accelerated working method for the official codification of legislative texts and to the opinion of the consultative working party of the legal services of the european parliament, i support the adoption of the position on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on certain procedures for applying the stabilisation and association agreement between the european communities and their member states, of the one part, and bosnia and herzegovina, of the other part, at first reading, taking over the commission proposal adapted to the recommendations of the consultative working party of the legal services of the european parliament, the council and the commission, of the other part.
written. ‒ i supported the codification of the application of the stabilisation and association agreement and the interim agreement on trade and trade-related matters with bosnia and herzegovina because all procedures require codification after more than ten amendments and i believe that the law must be clear and transparent, therefore it is crucial to codify rules that are often changed. i believe that these agreements will trigger a convergence towards eu product quality standards, which will lead to a greater competitiveness of bih products and the private sector. it will also trigger the introduction of higher standards of consumer protection, leading to increased consumer safety in bih. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's macro-financial assistance to the countries of central and eastern europe, in particular through the european neighbourhood instrument (enpi) and the european neighbourhood instrument (enpi). bosnia and herzegovina should make more progress on key issues such as reducing crime and corruption, promoting higher education reform, developing democracy and human rights, promoting media independence and improving transport infrastructure.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the codification of council regulation (ec) no 594/2008 on certain procedures for applying the stabilisation and association agreement between the european communities and their member states, of the one part, and bosnia and herzegovina, of the other part, and for applying the interim agreement on trade and trade-related matters between the european community, of the one part, and bosnia and herzegovina, of the other part, as the legal expert group found that this does not result in significant changes but rather allows for easier access to the reports.
written. ‒ we in the european parliament imagine and want bih as a sovereign state of three constituent peoples and minorities and this is what we base our policy towards bih on. we must help bosnia and herzegovina to establish a democratic, functional system of government at all levels that will enable bosnia and herzegovina to integrate into europe. the reformed system should work to improve the economic and social living conditions for all citizens, enhance religious tolerance, and provide equal rights for all residents. the failure to respect international trade agreements with croatia as a new member state is also a significant problem. the commission has also received comments from the croatian authorities, which have not provided any evidence that the measures in question are necessary to restore the situation of the croatian economy. the lack of willingness of the bosnian authorities to sign the interim trade agreement calls into question the privileged and traditional trade between croatia and bih, which will open up a number of new issues, which are not necessary at this time.
written. ‒ i support this report because it is a straightforward codification of existing texts without any substantial changes to them. the document essentially adapts the stabilisation and association agreement between macedonia and the eu to the provisions of the regulation of the european parliament and of the council codifying council regulation (ec) no 153/2002.
written. ‒ i voted for the report on the stabilisation and association agreement between the european communities and the republic of macedonia - fyrom. this is just another formal, but important, step forward for the republic of macedonia - fyrom in its process towards eu accession. as i support the process of all western balkan countries joining the european union this is just one more such vote for the eu in a series that follows.
written. ‒ i support the report by mr dude on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on certain procedures for applying the stabilisation and association agreement between the european communities and their member states, of the one part, and the republic of macedonia, of the other part, which confirms that the amendments proposed by the commission are a codification of the text without affecting its content. the stabilisation and association agreement with the european union was signed in 2005 to support macedonia's efforts in the process of aligning with union rules and regulations, strengthening democracy and the rule of law. it has been nine years since the signing of the agreement and negotiations have not started. i also take this opportunity to recall that the progress report shows the implementation of legal, political, economic and administrative reforms. the commission has already provided a report on the progress of the negotiations on the accession of the republic of macedonia to the european union.
written. ‒ i support this codification because it is necessary for the legal certainty of the application of the act. the eu has also been working with the european union to develop a common approach to the issue of migration. it is clear that the main stumbling block is the bilateral problems that prevent the opening of negotiations. given that croatia has more than 10 years of experience in the negotiation process and has successfully completed them and become a full eu member, i believe that our experience is valuable because of the demanding negotiation method that had benchmarks in the opening and closing of 35 chapters of the negotiations. such a process awaits macedonia, and we are the first to have this experience that can be useful. another important note is that croatia has also had blockages for several years in negotiations due to unresolved bilateral issues with a neighboring country and also an eu member, as is the case with macedonia. the example of resolving bilateral problems within the negotiation process is an example of good practice that we should also use in subsequent negotiations such as the one with the republic of macedonia.
written. ‒ having regard to the interinstitutional agreement of 20 december 1994 on an accelerated working method for the official codification of legislative texts and to the opinion of the consultative working party of the legal services of the european parliament, i support the adoption of the position on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council at first reading, adopting the commission proposal adapted to the recommendations of the consultative working party of the legal services of the european parliament, the council and the commission.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the codification of council regulation (ec) no 153/2002 on certain procedures for applying the stabilisation and association agreement between the european communities and their member states, of the one part, and macedonia, of the other part, and for applying the interim agreement between the european community and macedonia, in the interests of clarity and rationality, and of facilitating the consultation of the reports.
written. i voted in favour of the proposal for the codification of council regulation (ec) no 153/2002 of 21 january 2002 on certain procedures for applying the stabilisation and association agreement between the european communities and their member states, of the one part, and the former yugoslav republic of macedonia, of the other part, and for applying the interim agreement between the european community, of the one part, and the former yugoslav republic of macedonia, of the other part. the european union's legislative acts must be clear and transparent, and they are frequently amended and supplemented, and are scattered across different texts. the aim of codifying the regulation is to consolidate existing legislative acts, without substantial amendments, in order to make them more accessible to citizens so that they can exercise their rights more easily. since the advisory group, after having examined all the acts, concluded that it was only a codification of the legislative text without any substantive amendment, with the exception of the amendment of the text of the first paragraph of article 7 of the draft codified text of the words 'as provided for in articles 38 and 39 of the ssp' to read: 'as provided for in articles 37 and 38 of the ssp', i voted in favour of the codification of the legislative texts of the existing regulation.
written. ‒ the changes do not have a major impact on the text.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the proposal for a council regulation on the application of articles 107 and 108 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union to certain categories of horizontal state aid, given that, in the opinion of the consultative working party of the legal services of the european parliament, the council and the commission, the proposal in question is limited to the codification of existing texts without any substantive changes.
written. ‒ i supported the report by mr dude confirming that the amendments proposed by the commission to the text of the treaty on the functioning of the european union on certain categories of horizontal state aid are a codification of the text which does not affect its content. the commission notes that the capital injections were granted in the form of a capital injection of eur [...] million. the commission considers that the aid is compatible with the internal market if it is granted in the form of a public service delegation. this also applies to state aid granted to the same undertaking over a certain period of time and not exceeding a certain fixed amount. this applies to aid for small and medium-sized enterprises; research, development and innovation; environmental protection; employment and training; infrastructure and sports aid and regional aid approved by the commission for a given member state.
‒ council regulation (ec) no 994/98 has been substantially amended. since the commission decided on 1.4.1987 to order that all acts should be codified after a maximum of 10 amendments, a codification of council regulation (ec) no 994/98 of 7 may 1998 on the application of articles 107 and 108 of the tfeu to certain categories of horizontal state aid is necessary. the purpose of this proposal is therefore to codify the said regulation. the commission notes that the commission has not provided any evidence that the aid is compatible with the internal market. these categories include aid for e.g. small and medium-sized enterprises, environmental protection and research, development and innovation. the commission will assess the compatibility of the aid with the internal market on the basis of the criteria set out in article 107 (3) (c) of the treaty. the commission may also decide to exempt certain aid from the notification procedure laid down in article 108, provided that the aid granted to the same undertaking for a given period does not exceed a fixed amount (de minimis aid). the proposal is indeed limited to the codification of existing texts without any substantial changes, and since i consider that this is an act of great importance, i supported the proposal.
written. ‒ since, in the opinion of the consultative working party of the legal services of the european parliament, the council and the commission, the proposal for a council regulation on the application of articles 107 and 108 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union to certain categories of horizontal state aid (codified text) concerned is limited to the codification of existing texts without substantial changes, i support the rapporteur's position approving the commission proposal adapted to the recommendations of the consultative working party of the legal services of the european parliament, the council and the commission.
written. ‒ horizontal support in the eu should be the basis for achieving sustainable economic growth, as it is in principle directed at regional development, innovation, research, vocational training, environmental protection, etc. and serves to strengthen the competitiveness of the european union's economy. the commission notes that the commission has not provided any evidence that the aid granted to the beneficiary was granted in breach of the rules on state aid. the consolidation of council regulation (ec) no 994/98 of 7 may 1998 on the application of articles 107 and 108 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union to certain categories of horizontal state aid will replace the various acts incorporated therein, thus contributing to transparency and openness. the codification of frequently changing acts is crucial in simplifying european union law to make it clearer and more accessible. therefore, i support the report of mr dude on the proposal for a council regulation on the application of articles 107 and 108 tfeu to certain categories of horizontal state aid, as the consultative working party of the legal services of the european parliament, the council and the commission has unanimously concluded that the proposal indeed limits itself to the codification of existing texts without any substantive changes.
written. given that the set of rules and regulations setting out the detailed conditions for the granting of state aid by eu member states has been revised on several occasions, it is essential that all aid beneficiaries have clear guidance on what constitutes aid within the meaning of article 107 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union (tfeu). at the same time, it is necessary to simplify and adapt the legal provisions in order to protect the position of entrepreneurs on the market and to ensure that commercial courts have the relevant information to bring pre-bankruptcy settlements or bankruptcy proceedings to a fair conclusion. as, during the examination of the proposal for a council regulation codifying council regulation (ec) no 994/98 of 7 may 1998 on the application of articles 107 and 108 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union to certain categories of horizontal state aid, the advisory group concluded that the proposal concerned the codification of existing texts without substantial changes, i voted in favour of the proposal for a codified text.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution because, in the opinion of the consultative working party of the legal services of the european parliament, the council and the commission, the proposal in question is limited to the codification of existing texts without any substantive changes.
written. ‒ the changes concern only the codification of the text.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the proposal for a council regulation laying down detailed rules for the application of article 108 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union, since, in the opinion of the consultative working party of the legal services of the european parliament, the council and the commission, the proposal in question is limited to the codification of existing texts without any substantive changes.
written. ‒ article 108 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union regulates the supervision by the commission of the support systems in the member states. the commission's role is to propose all appropriate measures necessary for the progressive development or functioning of the internal market. the treaty also provides for procedures in the event that all the conditions for the use of the aid are not met or when member states do not apply the proposed measures, and i therefore support this report by mr dude's representative approving the commission's proposal for the codification of the treaty on the functioning of the european union.
written. ‒ in the interests of clarity and rationality, the commission has tabled this proposal with a view to codifying regulation (ec) no 659/1999 of 22 march 1999 laying down detailed rules for the application of article 108 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union. the proposal aims to facilitate the review of the content of the acts being codified by making only minor formal changes, but without changing their substance. in accordance with article 108 tfeu, any plans to grant new aid and the necessary information must be notified and submitted by the member states to the commission in good time and may not enter into force before being authorised by the commission. the deadline for the commission to take a decision is two months. this proposal includes a codification of the provisions related to the commission's powers: to request additional information from any member state in case of suspicion of non-compliance of a measure with union rules and to implement compliance measures, where appropriate by means of penalties, to assess the confidentiality of information obtained, to examine data on unlawful aid and to issue 10-year limitations accordingly. the rule on the codification of an act after a dozen amendments, which the commission established in 1987, contributes to greater certainty of the correct application of the act and, for reasons of legal certainty, is in the interest of all those stakeholders to whom these texts will apply, and i have therefore supported this proposal.
written. ‒ since, in the opinion of the consultative working party of the legal services of the european parliament, the council and the commission, the proposal for a council regulation laying down detailed rules for the application of article 108 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union (codified text) in question is limited to the codification of existing texts without any substantive changes, i support the rapporteur's position approving the commission proposal as adapted to the recommendations of the consultative working party of the legal services of the european parliament, the council and the commission.
written. ‒ i support the report by mr andrzej dude on the proposal for a council regulation laying down detailed rules for the application of article 108 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union, given that the consultative working party of the legal services of the european parliament, the council and the commission has found that the proposal is limited to the codification of existing texts and does not contain any substantive changes. the codification of council regulation (ec) no 659/1999 of 22 march 1999 laying down detailed rules for the application of article 108 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union will replace various acts which are combined into one single act, thus contributing to transparency and openness. the codification of frequently changing acts is important to simplify the law of the european union in order to make it clearer and more accessible to citizens and to give citizens the possibility and opportunity to exercise their specific rights conferred on them by it. i welcome the continued efforts of the expert services of parliament, the council and the commission in the codification procedures in the spirit of the interinstitutional agreement of 20 december 1994 on an accelerated working method for the official codification of legislative texts.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution because, in the opinion of the consultative working party of the legal services of the european parliament, the council and the commission, the proposal in question is limited to the codification of existing texts without any substantive changes.
written. ‒ taking into account the interinstitutional agreement of 20 december 1994 on an accelerated working method for the official codification of legislative texts, in particular point 4, the consultative group consisting of the legal services of the european parliament, the council and the commission considered on 25 september 2014, inter alia, the proposal for a council regulation laying down detailed rules for the application of article 108 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union submitted by the commission. after considering the proposal, the advisory group unanimously concluded that the proposal indeed limited itself to the codification of existing texts without any substantial changes. i therefore supported the proposal as adapted to the recommendations of the advisory group of the legal services of the european parliament, the council and the commission.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the court's thematic reports in the context of the 2013 commission discharge, as i consider that the court's thematic reports are objective and well-formed. i believe that the observations and guidelines proposed by the court should be taken more into account and the recommendations made should be adhered to. in this context, i support the fact that the criteria of transparency are always sought in the allocation of funds and that more funds are allocated to specific sectors. it is also necessary to insist that the work and activities of the european institutions, and in particular of the european commission, be consistent with the legal and financial frameworks in order to achieve tangible results as efficiently as possible.
written. ‒ i believe that the court's thematic reports give the european parliament a good insight into the work of the european commission and the implementation of the eu budget. these reports provide insight into the problems and irregularities in the implementation of the budget and, on the basis of the observations, can achieve efficiency and avoid irregularities in the implementation of the budget of the european union, which is why i supported the court of auditors' thematic report in the context of the discharge to the commission for 2013.
‒ the court of auditors' thematic reports contain information on issues of concern relating to the use of the financial means and as such form an integral part of parliament's decision on discharge in respect of the implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2013. having regard to the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2013, the consolidated annual accounts of the union for the financial year 2013, the annual report of the court of auditors on the implementation of the budget for the financial year 2013, together with the institutions' replies and the statement of assurance as to the reliability of the accounts and the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions, i have endorsed the court of auditors' report on the thematic reports in the context of the discharge to the commission for 2013, welcoming the conclusions of the court of auditors' individual thematic reports and taking into account all the observations made in the reports.
written. ‒ i support the court of auditors' special reports under the commission's 2013 discharge. i agree with the call on the commission to shorten the duration of the audit cycle in order to limit the use of general reserves and welcome the need for the life programme to serve as a catalyst for change in policy development and implementation. finally, i believe that a more transparent allocation of resources, a more vigorous analysis of available data compared to 2012 has been achieved, although there is still room for improvement.
written. ‒ i welcome the practice of the european court of auditors of producing and publishing thematic reports presenting the results of selected audits of certain areas of the eu budget or management-related topics. as vice-president of the committee on foreign affairs, i particularly welcome the preparation of the court of auditors' thematic report no 19/2014 entitled 'eu pre-accession assistance to serbia' which points to shortcomings and calls on the commission and the eu delegation to serbia to prevent problems that occurred in the first part of the 2007-2013 programming period. i support the view that judicial reform has made little progress since 2007. thematic reports are an important source of information for parliament. the audit authority shall be responsible for the audit of the accounts of the audit firm. they constitute a key instrument in the annual procedure for the adoption of the implementation report. the court of auditors has also provided the commission with a number of reports on the implementation of the 2013 budget.
written. ‒ i agree and support the discharge report mentioned in the title. as stated in the report, there is an evident lack of reliability in the first level checks by the eu member states when implementing joint management as well as in the data communicated by them. the commission notes that the court of auditors has not provided any evidence that the commission has failed to take into account the findings of the investigation. i welcome this thematic report, but i find it unacceptable that in some cases studies on the assessment of impacts on sustainable development are missing or incomplete. i believe that before any new agreement is signed, the sustainability impact assessments should be completed and made publicly available. the commission should be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 290 tfeu concerning the definition of preferential trade agreements and the definition of preferential trade agreements, including the definition of preferential trade agreements and preferential trade agreements, and the definition of preferential trade agreements and preferential trade agreements.
written. ‒i voted in favour of dismissing the commission because it calls for greater transparency by the member states in cooperation with the commission and that persistent disinformation by member states must be accompanied by sanctions. it also calls on the commission to ensure that those who are accused of misuse no longer have access to eu funds. the commission and the member states have shown over the years a lack of commitment to good financial management. the estimated total error rate of 4,7% in 2013 is an increase from 2009 (4,8% in 2012, 3,9% in 2011, 3,7% in 2010, 3,3% in 2009). parliament cannot therefore politically ensure that the control procedures by the commission and the member states provide the necessary guarantee of the legality and regularity of all the transactions in question.
written. ‒ i voted for discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the eighth, ninth and tenth european development funds for the financial year 2013, given the importance of achieving the millennium development goals and priorities pursued by the development fund. the discharge will facilitate the continuation of the measures started and it has also been established that the financial situation of the edf is sound and positively presented through the accounting documents for 2013. however, it is of the utmost importance that the activities of the fund are aligned with the strategy and priority areas identified by the political priorities in order to deliver effective assistance. in addition, it is necessary to continue the fight against corruption and to strengthen cooperation with international organisations.
written. ‒ the european development fund aims to accelerate the achievement of the millennium development goals and to broaden the european union's partnership with african, pacific and caribbean countries. the court of auditors' report for the financial year 2013 found that there were no irregularities in the accounting records of the european development fund and i therefore supported the discharge report on the implementation of the budget of the eighth, ninth and tenth european development funds for the financial year 2013.
written. ‒ i have supported the discharge report on the implementation of the budget of the eighth, ninth and tenth european development funds for the financial year 2013. i support the observations of the european parliament concerning the protection of development policy objectives which must remain the responsibility of the eeas and should not be influenced by trade and foreign and security policy. i also support the comments on the proper application of accounting standards and the presentation of interest income in the annual accounts and share the concerns of the court of auditors regarding the assessment of the legality and regularity of payments related to the accounting documentation that the supervisory and control systems at europaid's headquarters and union delegations are only partially effective in ensuring the legality and regularity of payments. the court also found that the ex ante checks carried out before the execution of payment transactions for projects continue to be flawed and that the commission should pay greater attention to the quality and appropriateness of ex ante controls by commission staff and external auditors before the execution of payment for projects, in particular in view of the high political and operational risk. i also support the start of a review and assessment of the post-2020 scenarios and the possibility of anticipating how development aid can more effectively help to better establish the rule of law and social and economic cohesion of developing countries.
written. ‒ i support the opinion of the court of auditors that the final annual accounts of the eighth, ninth and tenth european development funds for 2013 fairly present the financial position of the edfs as at 31 december 2013 in all material respects and that the results of operations, cash flows and changes in net assets at the end of the year are in line with the provisions of the edf financial regulation and internationally accepted accounting standards for the public sector. i regret that the court of auditors estimated the most significant error rate for the expenditure transactions under the 8th, 9th and 10th edf at 3,4%, which is a small increase compared to 2012 (3%) but still below the best result of 2011 (5,1%).
written. ‒ in the opinion of the court of auditors, which considers that the final annual accounts of the eighth, ninth and tenth european development funds for 2013 fairly present the financial position of the edfs in all material respects and that the results of operations, cash flows and changes in net assets at the end of the year are in line with the provisions of the edf financial regulation and with internationally accepted accounting standards for the public sector, i support this decision of the european parliament and consider that there is no obstacle to its adoption. the commission notes that the commission has not provided any information on the number of cases of fraud in the past, but that the commission has provided information on the number of cases of fraud in the past. the commission notes that the 2013 financial year was the most profitable year for the bank, with a net profit of eur [...] million. i stress that the strategies and priorities for future erf activities should be clearly defined, so that a system of financial instruments is built on these foundations, while respecting the principles of efficiency and transparency.
written. ‒ i support this report because the final annual reports of the eighth, ninth and tenth european development funds are presented in a realistic and objective way. the european development fund is, among other things, the main financial instrument of the european union for achieving development cooperation with the acp states and for providing assistance to african, caribbean and pacific countries. i would like to emphasise the need to step up efforts to accelerate the achievement of development goals in africa. the programmes of the european development fund must be consistent, but at the same time flexible enough to direct funds precisely where they are needed most, while ensuring an effective impact.
written. ‒ i support the discharge because i believe that the strategies and priorities for the future edf activities must be precisely defined and that the financial instrument system must be built on this basis, respecting the principles of efficiency and transparency. i also invite the council and the member states to agree to the full integration of the edf into the union budget. the commission notes that the edf's budgetary position is not in line with the commission's estimates of the budget deficit.
written. ‒ i voted for the discharge report on the implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2013, part i. - european parliament in view of the importance of the european parliament to the european union as a whole and in the absence of any significant deficiencies in the administrative and other expenditure which would have prevented discharge from being granted. the commission should also be able to use the information provided by the european parliament to provide the european parliament with the necessary information. parliament is a european institution that must ensure quality, efficiency and effectiveness in its fields of activity.
written. ‒ the court of auditors found in its report that there were no serious weaknesses in the control system for administrative expenditure in the european parliament. on the basis of the court of auditors' report on the european parliament for 2013, i supported the discharge report on the implementation of the european parliament's budget for the financial year 2013. i believe that the efficient and proper use of taxpayers' money in the european parliament instills confidence in this house and in the work of elected representatives who represent the interests of the citizens of the european union.
written. ‒ the european parliament is the representative body of the citizens of the european union and acts as co-legislator, sharing with the council the power to adopt and amend legislative proposals and to decide on the eu budget. it also supervises the work of the commission and other eu bodies and cooperates with and receives opinions from the national parliaments of the eu countries. as an institution of the european union, it is subject to the audit of its operations by the court of auditors. the court of auditors' report did not identify any serious deficiencies in relation to the areas audited by parliament. in the audit of the transactions carried out, the court of auditors found an error rate of only 1% and that the supervisory and control systems were effective. on the basis of the above, i have supported the discharge in respect of the implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2013, in so far as it relates to the european parliament. however, i think it is important to open a serious debate on the choice of a single location for the parliament, which would make a significant contribution to savings and reduce administrative costs. i am also concerned about the lack of gender balance in the management of the european parliament where, as of 29 december 2013, women made up 34% of unit heads, 33% of directors and 31% of general directors. i therefore call for the implementation of a plan to provide equal opportunities, with the aim of equalising the imbalance identified as soon as possible.
written. ‒ i commend the fact that the audit did not identify serious deficiencies in relation to the areas that were the subject of the parliament's audit. i note that the enviably high level of budget implementation has been maintained at the level of previous years, but i would point out that such a high percentage of budget implementation does not reveal whether it contains carry-overs to transfer all the appropriations available at the end of the year to the budget lines for construction, and in particular for capital advances to reduce future interest payments. bearing in mind that the european parliament is the only directly elected body of the european union which, together with the council of ministers, constitutes the legislative power of the european union, as an indispensable institution of the eu, i welcome the objectives of poverty eradication, combating inequalities, creating a sustainable health system and gender equality, as set out in the resolution on the post-2015 development framework.
written. ‒ i support the european parliament's decision on discharge in respect of the implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2013, part ii. european council and council as the audit did not identify any serious deficiencies in the areas audited by parliament. it is also important to note that there is still some room for improvement, especially when one considers that the eurobarometer survey on the european parliament showed that during the 2014 election campaign, 23% of respondents had a very negative and 43% a neutral image of parliament, with the negative image often linked to the financial benefits enjoyed by members such as the fees, salaries and the budget of parliament in general. accordingly, greater transparency is needed in relation to the remuneration of members for general expenses in order to improve support for and confidence in parliament. it is also important to emphasise that the court of auditors has not identified serious deficiencies in the areas audited by parliament and that the system of supervision and control, as regards administrative expenditure in 2013, has been assessed as effective, so that there is no obstacle to the adoption of this decision by the european parliament.
written. ‒ i support this report and agree to discharge the european parliament's general budget. the commission has also received a number of complaints from the member states concerning the use of the european parliament's budget for the financial year 2012 and the european parliament's budget for the financial year 2013. the audit of the accounting records also established a true and fair presentation of parliament's financial position. it is also important to note that the supervisory and control systems were assessed as effective. the management bodies and administration of parliament, which include us as members of the european parliament, bear responsibility for the resources put at our disposal, and it is for this very reason that it is important to conduct the decision-making process in a transparent manner in order to ensure that the citizens of the european union have a true and accurate view of the way and process by which parliament takes its decisions and spends the funds put at its disposal.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the discharge report on the implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2013, part i. european parliament. the court of auditors found no serious deficiencies in parliament's audit and the system of supervision and control was assessed as effective as regards administrative expenditure in 2013. in addition, parliament is called upon to strike a balance with regard to the country of origin in the appointment of senior officials in the parliament's administration, and a report on the extent to which this objective has been achieved is expected by the end of 2015. i supported the fact that the 5% reduction in travel expenses of members and the cost of staff travel resulted in a saving of eur 4 million in 2013, while on the other hand i stress that the daily allowances of accredited parliamentary assistants travelling to strasbourg on official business are 30-45% lower than those received by other staff. i also welcome the fact that greenhouse gas emissions from european parliament staff travelling between brussels, luxembourg and strasbourg in 2012 fell by 34% compared to 2006.
written. ‒ i voted for the discharge report on the implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2013, part ii. - european council and council requesting the postponement of discharge for reasons of inadequate financial management. in this context, it is also necessary to reduce staff costs for days away from work and to improve the institutions' property management policy.
written. ‒ i supported the report by mr czarnecki and the european parliament resolution following the decision to defer the implementation of the budget for the financial year 2013. the reason for this is the lack of answers to the questions raised by parliament and therefore it was not possible to take a discharge decision. the resolution reiterates that the budgets of the european council and the council of the eu should be separated for the purpose of transparency of financial management.
written. ‒ the european council sets the general political direction and priorities of the eu, and as it is not one of the eu's legislative institutions, it does not negotiate or adopt eu laws, but it sets the eu's policy agenda. the council is the institution representing the governments of the member states, where national ministers from all eu countries meet to legislate and coordinate policies as co-legislators. the european council and the council had a general budget of eur 535 511 300 in 2013 with an implementation rate of 86,7%. the court of auditors concluded in its 2013 annual report that no significant deficiencies had been identified with regard to the matters audited for the european council and the council. the court of auditors concluded on the basis of its audit work that there were no material errors in the payments for administrative and other expenditure of the institutions and bodies as a whole for the year ended 31 december 2013 and concluded in its 2013 annual report that no significant shortcomings had been identified in relation to the matters audited for the european council and the council. in view of the regular audit findings, i have endorsed the discharge for the implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2013, in so far as it relates to the european council and the council.
written. ‒ i support the court of auditors' report on the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2013, the european council and the council. i agree that all union institutions should be transparent and fully accountable to the citizens of the union regarding the funds entrusted to them as union institutions; however, i note that in the absence of answers to parliament's questions and due to insufficient information, parliament did not take a decision to discharge on the basis of an understanding of the facts. i welcome the call of the court of auditors to develop key performance indicators to improve budget planning in the coming years. the budgets of the european council and the council should, in my view, be separated in order to contribute to the transparency of financial management in the institutions and to improve the accountability of both institutions.
written. ‒ i support the european parliament's decision on discharge in respect of the implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2013, part ii. european council and council, as the court of auditors concluded on the basis of its audit work that there were no material errors in the payments for administrative and other expenditure of the institutions and bodies for the year ended 31 december 2013 as a whole and that the court of auditors concluded in its 2013 annual report that no significant deficiencies had been identified with regard to the matters audited for the european council and the council.
written. ‒ i support the postponement of parliament's decision on the discharge to the secretary-general of the council in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european council and of the council for the financial year 2013. parliament cannot take a decision on discharge because many questions referred to the european council and the council have remained unanswered. the commission also found that the union industry's sales volume and market share decreased by more than 10% during the period considered. the key performance indicators need to be developed to improve future budget planning. in addition, i believe that the budgets of the european council and the council should be separated, which would greatly contribute to the transparency of financial management in the institutions and to the increased accountability of both institutions. in order to ensure effective supervision of the implementation of the union budget, parliament and the council must cooperate and i hereby call on the council to establish regular communication between the representatives of the council and parliament's committee on budgetary control.
written. i voted to postpone the discharge to the council because of concerns that it is still spending far less than planned and that this rate applies to almost all categories. the key performance indicators should be developed to improve budget planning in the coming years. the budgets of the european council and the council should be separated in order to contribute to the transparency of financial management in the institutions and to enhance the accountability of both institutions. the commission has not received any comments from interested parties on the alleged dumping and injury margins.
written. ‒ i voted yes to the discharge report on the implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2013, part x. - european external action service as that service has already successfully implemented its budget for the third year of its existence. the court of auditors stressed the need to correct errors in staff remuneration and in the incorrect payment of social benefits to employees. furthermore, the european external action service should pay attention to the urgent reform of senior management in the most gender-disproportionate positions. the progress made in correcting errors has been noted in the past years of work and i therefore consider that the work of the eeas should continue with this discharge.
‒ the european external action service was established as the diplomatic corps of the european union. the role of this european office is to manage the union's diplomatic relations with other countries, to support strategic partnerships and to make foreign policy more coherent and effective in order to increase europe's influence in the world. on the basis of the court of auditors' decision on the reliability of the accounts for the financial year 2013, it was decided to authorise the implementation of the budget of the european external action service and i therefore supported that decision.
the european external action service (eeas) is the diplomatic corps of the european union. the eusr shall support the eusr in the implementation of the eu's foreign and security policy. the eeas shall manage the eu's diplomatic relations with other countries outside the union. it aims to make the eu's external policy more coherent and effective, and thus to increase europe's influence in the world. the audit found that the eeas continued to implement the budget without major errors during its third financial year. progress has also been made in correcting errors identified over the past years. i welcome the improved geographical representation in terms of the number of eeas staff now coming from the member states that acceded to the union after 2004, but stress the need to maintain geographical representation in the recruitment and appointment procedures. i also consider that geographical uniformity within the eeas is an important component for improving its work and call on the commission to continue to work towards this. the court of auditors found that no deficiencies had been identified in relation to the matters audited. in the light of the regular audit findings, i have supported the discharge for the implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2013, in so far as it relates to the european external action service.
written. ‒ the aim of the european external action service is to assist the high representative in ensuring the coherence and consistency of the union's external action. i am satisfied that the eeas has continued to execute the budget without major errors during its third financial year and that the court of auditors has noted this. the court also recalls that the eeas's headquarters must regularly take account of all procurement procedures at all stages, in particular within delegations, which i welcome. i am concerned about the lack of women in senior positions in the eeas (204 men to 55 women in delegations, compared with 42 men to 4 women in senior management, or only 8.7% of women). i welcome the forthcoming implementation of a plan to provide equal opportunities, particularly in managerial jobs, to redress this imbalance.
written. ‒ in line with the fact that the european external action service (eeas) continued to implement the budget without major errors during its third financial year and that this was noted by the court of auditors, i see no further obstacles to the adoption of this decision. i consider it important to highlight the remarkable progress made in correcting the errors identified over the past years and in adopting the recommendations for further improvements contained in the court's annual report. although the final budget for 2013 for the eeas headquarters was eur 508,8 million, an increase of 4,09%, while the budget itself was divided into: eur 195,81 million for the eeas headquarters and eur 312,95 million for the union delegations, with a contribution from the commission of eur 272,4 million, i believe that there is a lot of room for improvement, as the european external action service is still not a full eu diplomatic service and that this needs to be consolidated.
written. ‒ i support the above discharge report on the implementation of the general budget of the european external action service for the financial year 2013. i welcome the fact that the european external action service (eeas) has continued to implement the budget without major errors. the eeas manages the eu's diplomatic relations with other countries and it is for this very reason that it is of great importance to achieve a balanced representation of member states. i would like to emphasise the need for better geographical representation, especially in the leadership and the workplaces of the heads of delegation. the uniform representation in the eeas is important for improving the functioning of the office.
written. ‒ i have endorsed the discharge report on the implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2013, part x. european external action service. the eeas manages the eu's diplomatic relations with other countries and it is for this very reason that it is of great importance to achieve a balanced representation of member states. it would be better to insist on geographical representation, in particular in the senior posts and posts of the heads of delegation, as a uniform representation in the eeas is important for improving the work of the office.
written. ‒ i voted for the discharge report on the implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2013, part iv. - the court of justice of the european union because the smooth continuation of the work of this institution is important for the whole eu. the audit found that there were no major deficiencies in the areas of human resources and procurement and no administrative errors in the payments for administrative and other expenditure. the commission notes that the measures were not necessary to restore the viability of the bank, but to ensure that the bank's long-term viability was restored.
the court of justice of the european union has the task of ensuring that union law is applied in the same way in all the member states and of settling legal disputes between the governments of the member states and the institutions of the union. individuals, companies and organisations may bring an action before the court if they consider that their rights have been infringed by the institutions of the european union. the court of auditors confirmed the reliability of the accounting records and did not observe any significant weaknesses related to human resources and procurement issues. in view of the court of auditors' decision, i supported the report and the european parliament's resolution approving the closure of the court of justice of the european union's books for the financial year 2013.
‒ the court of justice of the european union is one of the fundamental institutions of the european union. it interprets eu law to ensure that it is applied uniformly in all member states and settles legal disputes between member state governments and eu institutions. individuals, companies or organisations can also bring an action before the court if they consider that their rights have been infringed by an eu institution. the court's appropriations for 2013 amounted to eur 354 880 000 and the rate of implementation was 96,3%. the court of auditors concluded that the payments for expenditure as a whole were free from material error and that no shortcomings had been identified. as in croatia, the issue of a reasonable time limit for the handling of cases is one of the key factors of the rule of law, so the success of the court's work should be considered from this point of view as well. the court of justice concluded 701 cases in 2013 (595 in 2012), and 699 new cases were brought before it (632 in 2012), including 450 appeals and requests for a preliminary ruling. i welcome the positive results and believe that despite the good indicators, there is still room for improvement. in view of the regular findings of the audit, i have supported the discharge for the implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2013, in so far as it relates to the court of justice of the european union.
written. ‒ the court of justice of the european union interprets eu law to ensure that it is applied uniformly in all member states. the court of justice of the european union also settles legal disputes between member states' governments and eu institutions. i support the decision of the european parliament to grant the registrar of the court of justice of the european union discharge in respect of the implementation of the court's budget for the financial year 2013. i agree with the court of auditors' assessment that there is still room for improvement within the existing resources at the court's disposal, stressing that the internal reforms carried out in 2013, namely the creation of a new general court chamber and the introduction of the function of another independent lawyer as well as the revision of the rules of procedure governing the functioning of the court of justice of the european union, in particular in the area of language and the use of technology, have contributed to positive changes in the systems that have enabled progress to be made in terms of optimising resources.
written. ‒ i support the european parliament's decision on discharge in respect of the implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2013, part iv. the court of auditors, having regard to its 2013 annual report, concludes that no significant weaknesses have been identified with regard to the audited matters relating to human resources and procurement for the court of justice of the european union and that, on the basis of its audit work, it has concluded that there were no material errors in the payments for administrative and other expenditure of the institutions and bodies for the year ended 31 december 2013 as a whole. in line with the fact that the court's budget is entirely administrative in nature and that a large amount is used for expenditure related to persons working for the institution, it is important to emphasise that despite the good statistical results, according to which the court closed 701 cases in 2013 (595 cases closed in 2012), that 699 new cases were brought before it (632 in 2012), including 450 appeals and requests for a preliminary ruling, it is evident that there is room for improvement in the court's own work.
written. ‒ i support this report on the discharge to be given to the court of justice of the european union in respect of the implementation of the general budget. the court of auditors did not identify any material weaknesses in its 2013 annual report, and i therefore welcome the contents of that report. the revision also found a slight reduction in the duration of proceedings, which is certainly a commendable progress. the report also shows a shift in the court's corporate social responsibility through the launch of the digitisation of reports as a replacement for the usual paper case law reports. as a croatian member of the european parliament, i would like to highlight the fact that the member states that joined the union after 2004 are not represented at the highest level of management of the institution and i would like to emphasise the need for better geographical balance at all levels within the administration.
written. ‒ i support the discharge report on the implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2013, part iv. court of justice of the european union. the court of auditors found no irregularities in its 2013 report. the audit showed a reduction in the duration of proceedings, which is certainly a commendable fact. the report also shows a shift in the court's corporate social responsibility through the launch of the digitisation of reports as a replacement for the usual paper case law reports.
written. ‒ i voted for the discharge report on the implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2013, part v. - court of auditors because it allows the court to function smoothly, which aims to improve the management of the european union's finances and to report on the use of public funds. the court of auditors' annual accounts for the financial year 2013 are set out in annex 'officials' to this section. however, it is still necessary to strengthen the court's flexibility in order to ensure effective adaptation to unexpected situations, to avoid the court focusing too often on individual areas and to ensure internal balance in the case of senior posts.
‒ the court of auditors was established in 1975 as the body responsible for auditing the european union's finances with the aim of improving the management of the union's finances. in order to ensure the best use of taxpayers' money, the court of auditors has the right to audit any person or organisation using union money, but it does not have the legal authority. the court's main task is to submit an annual report on the previous financial year to the european parliament. the annual accounting documentation of the court of auditors is audited by an independent external auditor who has certified that the financial statements present the court's financial position truthfully and fairly, and i therefore supported the discharge.
‒ the court's annual accounts are audited by an independent external auditor (pricewaterhouse coopers sarl). the court of auditors took note of the opinion of the auditor that the financial statements present a true and fair view of the financial position of the european court of auditors. the report indicates that the final level of appropriations authorised by the court of auditors in 2013 totalled eur 142 761 000 (eur 142 477 000 in 2012) and that the overall budget implementation rate was 92%. the commission also notes that the commission has not provided any evidence that the union industry has been able to recover from past dumping. the court of auditors' annual report on the implementation of the budget for the financial year 2013 was published in oj c 180, 30.6.2013, p. 1. as the court of auditors' finding is correct, i have supported the discharge for the implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2013, part v.-(2014/2083 ((dec)).
written. ‒ the court of auditors, as the control institution of the european union, is responsible for checking the revenue and expenditure, the legality and regularity, and the regularity of all transactions of all bodies set up by the community, unless excluded by a constitutional act, and its important role is reflected in the fact that the court of auditors is the fifth basic institution of the european union. i would commend the european parliament for asking the court of auditors to carry out an audit of the effects of the merger of the registers of the court of justice of the european union into one register in order to ensure better coordination of procedural actions between the courts. the commission has also received a number of complaints from the member states concerning the lack of transparency in the implementation of the budget.
written. ‒ in line with the fact that the court of auditors' annual accounting documentation is audited by an independent external auditor in order to ensure that the principles of transparency and accountability that the court of auditors applies to its audits are also applied to that institution, and that the opinion of that external auditor is that the financial statements present the financial position of the european court of auditors in a true and fair manner, i agree with the european parliament's decision on the discharge for the implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2013, part v. court of auditors. i consider it important to highlight the new strategy of the court of auditors for the period 2013-2017 to maximise its role as the external auditor of the union and to approve the 2013 plan to increase the number of audit reports on performance and to improve their quality by increasing efficiency and the resources allocated to this purpose.
written. ‒ i support the discharge report on the implementation of the court of auditors' general budget for the financial year 2013. the court of auditors shall be responsible for the financial management of the union's budget. i welcome the opinion of the external auditor in which he points out that the financial statements give a true and fair view of the financial situation of the european court of auditors. i also welcome the court's new strategy to increase the number of audit reports on performance and improve their quality by increasing efficiency and the resources allocated to this purpose. as a member of the european parliament, i appreciate the cooperation of the court of auditors and the committee on budgetary control of the european parliament and the regular feedback on inquiries and requests from parliament.
written. ‒ i support the discharge report on the implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2013, part v. court of auditors. the court of auditors shall be responsible for the financial management of the union's budget. the financial statements shall be prepared in accordance with the procedures and rules laid down in the financial regulation.
written. ‒ i voted for the discharge report on the implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2013, part vi. - european economic and social committee because of the absence of major errors in the procedures concerning human resources and public procurement procedures and the need to allow the committee to continue its work and activities without disruption. however, it is still necessary to apply internal rules on whistleblowers, to improve and rationalise events organised within the committee itself, and to continue with budgetary savings analyses.
‒ the european economic and social committee was set up in 1957 as a forum for debate on the single market where european stakeholders could formally express their views on proposals for union legislation. the committee shall adopt its own rules of procedure. the court of auditors concluded that there were no material errors in the payments for administrative and other expenditure for the financial year 2013. on this basis, i supported the report and the resolution of the european parliament which approved the implementation of the budget of the economic and social committee.
‒ the economic and social committee is an advisory body of the european union. it provides expert advice to the main eu institutions (the european commission, the european council and the european parliament). it does this by issuing 'opinions' on proposed eu legislation as well as 'own-initiative opinions' on issues it considers needing to be addressed. the committee promotes participatory democracy in the eu and helps to strengthen the role of civil society organisations by engaging in a 'structured dialogue' with these groups in the eu member states as well as in other countries around the world. the financial report submitted shows that the rate of implementation of the appropriations is 94,1%. the commission notes that the 2013 budget was increased compared to the previous year, but that some savings were also noted in certain items such as the use of external translation services due to the improved efficiency of the internal services. i supported the 2013 financial regulation because i consider the work of the committee necessary and useful for the development of the european union and the broad participation of all citizens. the members of the economic and social committee represent a wide range of economic, social and cultural interests in their countries. they are divided into three groups: 'employers', 'workers' and 'various interest groups' (e.g. farmers, consumers, environmental associations, family associations, ngos, etc.). their opinion contributes to better communication and acts as a bridge between the eu and civil society organisations in the member states.
‒ the european economic and social committee is one of the oldest bodies of the european union, established in 1957 by the treaty of rome. its advisory role is of particular importance in the work of the union as they constitute an instrument for communication between the public, private and civil sectors and their mutual consultation in the legislative process. in order to continue to perform its important function effectively, the eesc, i agree with the report, must continue to monitor its staff structure to ensure that the organisation of posts is fully effective and contributes to better spending of the budget allocated. finally, i would commend the videoconferencing mechanism as a useful tool for achieving budgetary savings and efficiency and would recommend it to other bodies and agencies of the european union.
written. ‒ i support the european parliament's decision on discharge in respect of the implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2013, part vi. european economic and social committee, as the court of auditors found the payments for administrative and other expenditure for 2013 to be correct and concluded in its annual report for the same year that there were no significant errors in the audited areas concerning human resources and public procurement for the european economic and social committee. i also welcome the intention of the european economic and social committee to plan its work more effectively in the legislative procedure, which does not necessarily mean increasing the number of opinions but rather putting emphasis on their quality.
written. ‒ i support the discharge report on the general budget of the european economic and social committee (eesc) for the financial year 2013, and as the main reason for agreeing with it, i cite the court of auditors' conclusions on the transparent operation and regular and true financial reports of the eesc. i am pleased that the eesc has applied the new rules on the reimbursement of members' travel expenses on the basis of actual costs, as recommended by parliament, and that it is fostering the cooperation of its members with the members of parliament's committee on budgetary control. as the report already points out, i believe that additional efforts and resources need to be invested to increase the visibility of the eesc through improved information and communication policy with both partners and civil society.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the discharge report on the implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2013, part vi. european economic and social committee, given that there is an increase of 1% in the 2013 budget compared to the previous year's budget, and i support the eesc's efforts to limit the budgets for the coming years, thus guaranteeing flat-rate growth. i welcome the intention of the eesc to plan its work more efficiently in the legislative procedure, which does not necessarily mean increasing the number of opinions but rather putting emphasis on their quality. the eesc, following the recommendation of the parliament, has applied new rules on the reimbursement of members' travel expenses on the basis of actual costs. i take note of the cooperation between the members of the eesc and parliament's committee on budgetary control, in particular in relation to the discharge procedure. i recommend that the eesc continue to develop regular analyses of the budgetary savings resulting from the implementation of the new administrative cooperation agreement with the committee of the regions. the review of that cooperation agreement in the middle of the next implementation period is a good moment to assess it and to correct any identified shortcomings.
written. ‒ i voted for the discharge report on the implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2013, part vii. - committee of the regions because of the need to ensure the smooth functioning of the committee, which is directly linked to and represents the interests of local and regional units at european level. in 2013, no shortcomings were identified in relation to public procurement procedures and human resources, and no material errors were identified in relation to the payment of administrative and other expenditure. the committee also launched a new activity-based budgeting system which gives a complete picture of costs and planned activities and commends the quality of the annual work report. it is also important to continue information and communication activities in order to raise the visibility of the committee.
written. ‒ the committee of the regions has an advisory role representing local and regional authorities in the european union. the european parliament is the main institution of the european union, and its role is to represent the interests of the union in the european parliament. the commission, the council and the parliament are obliged to consult the committee of the regions before taking decisions on matters relating to local and regional government. i supported the implementation of the committee of the regions' budget for the financial year 2013 and the european parliament's resolution with observations. the report of mr czarnecki's representative approved the implementation of the budget on the basis of the court of auditors' decision.
written. the court of auditors concluded in its 2013 annual report that no deficiencies had been identified with regard to the matters audited relating to human resources and procurement procedures within the committee of the regions. the court of auditors concluded on the basis of its audit work that the payments for administrative and other expenditure of the institutions and bodies as a whole for the year ended 31 december 2013 were free from material error. the commission shall be assisted by the european parliament and the council. the court of auditors regretted the decrease in the utilisation rate in 2013 compared to its level of 98,2% in 2012. notes with concern that the court of auditors' audit findings on the annual accounts of the european food safety authority (efsa) for the financial year 2012 were based on the information provided by the court of auditors; i have endorsed the statement of assurance as to the implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2013, part vii. committee of the regions.
written. ‒ the treaty on european union established the committee of the regions as an assembly of regional authorities in the member states to respond to requests for direct influence on the decision-making of the union concerning local or regional interests, and of the 353 members of the committee, croatia participates with nine of them. i agree that cost rationalisation is possible in the context of closer cooperation with the european economic and social committee and the parliament, especially in the area of translation, and i am pleased that cooperation is moving in the right direction in this respect. although it is neither an executive nor a legislative body, the functioning of the committee of the regions is of paramount political importance and i therefore welcome and fully support its work.
written. ‒ as the court of auditors concluded on the basis of its audit work that there were no material errors in the payments for administrative and other expenditure of the institutions and bodies as a whole for the year ended 31 december 2013, i consider that there is no reason for not adopting this decision. the committee shall also publish, in a consistent and high quality manner, annual reports on its work and a comprehensive annual impact report, which is an important tool for assessing its work. it is important to note that the court of auditors concluded in its 2013 annual report that no significant deficiencies had been identified with regard to the matters audited concerning human resources and procurement procedures within the committee of the regions, as well as the fact that the annual report included a comprehensive table of all human resources.
written. ‒ i support the report on discharge in respect of the implementation of the general budget of the committee of the regions for the financial year 2013. i welcome the fact that the court of auditors, on the basis of its work, has concluded that no material errors were found in the annual report and that there were no material errors in the payments for administrative and other expenditure. the commission has also received a number of complaints from the member states concerning the use of the subsidy scheme. such a report is certainly a useful tool for the legislative work of the european parliament. the committee of the regions also made positive changes to its annual reports, such as the inclusion of information on the committee's political activities and unused interpretation services. the reduction in the unused rate of interpreting services from 3,23% in 2012 to 2,51% in 2013 is also commendable. as one of the proposals mentioned in this report, which i would like to highlight and agree with, is to invest additional efforts and resources to increase the committee's visibility through improving the information and communication policy.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on discharge in respect of the implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2013, part vii. committee of the regions, as the committee's budget service records the recommendations and requests of parliament's committee on budgetary control in a central database and the progress of implementation is regularly monitored and the recommendations of the court of auditors and parliament are taken into account. i welcome the publication of the 2013 annual report on subsidiarity, which provides an overview of the committee's activities in relation to the annual monitoring of the application of the principle of subsidiarity. i consider that report a useful tool for the legislative work of parliament. i also welcome the new activity-based budgeting system launched by the committee, as it is better adapted to the specific characteristics of smaller institutions and can therefore give a more complete picture of the costs and planned activities. i congratulate the committee on the consistent quality of its annual activity reports and on the publication of the comprehensive annual impact report, which is an important tool for assessing its work, and i am pleased to note that a comprehensive table of all human resources available to the committee is included in the annual activity report.
written. ‒ i voted for the discharge report on the implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2013, part viii. - european ombudsman because the european institution in question has performed an excellent and productive function in 2012. the 2013 annual management plan also demonstrated exceptional performance and continued improvements in financial planning and implementation. the comments cited are translation costs that are higher than in other eu institutions, and the lack of women in senior positions. in order to continue the work and excellence of the european ombudsman, i am certainly in favour of dismissing this case.
written. ‒ the european ombudsman was set up to investigate complaints against the institutions, bodies, offices and agencies of the european union and is fully independent. the ombudsman initiates an inquiry after receiving complaints from citizens, companies and organisations or on his own initiative when he suspects that the law has been breached. on the basis of the court of auditors' conclusion that no material shortcomings had been identified in the annual accounts, i supported the decision of mr czarneck and the european parliament to close the books of the european ombudsman for the financial year 2013.
‒ the court of auditors concluded in its 2013 annual report that no material shortcomings had been identified in relation to the audited matters relating to human resources and procurement for the european ombudsman. the court of auditors concluded on the basis of its audit work that the payments for administrative and other expenditure of the institutions and bodies as a whole for the year ended 31 december 2013 were free from material misstatement. the ombudsman's budget is entirely administrative and amounted in 2013 to eur 9 731 371 (eur 9 516 500 in 2012), of which eur 7 567 371 was allocated to heading 1 (expenditure relating to staff working for the institution), eur 1 606 700 to heading 2 (buildings, equipment and other dedicated operating expenditure) and eur 557 300 to heading 3 (expenditure relating to the performance of specific tasks carried out by the institution). the amount of assigned revenue in accordance with article 21 (3) of the financial regulation is estimated at eur 100000. the court of auditors called for the financial improvements to be continued in the following budgetary periods and i therefore supported the decision on the discharge for the implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2013, part viii - european ombudsman (2014/2084 ((dec)).
written. ‒ the european ombudsman has an important function of investigating irregularities in the activities of the european institutions and bodies, and all citizens of the union, as well as residents of all member states, have the right to complain. to maintain the quality and success of this important function, it is crucial to ensure sustainable and efficient funding and i am therefore pleased that the court of auditors commends the ombudsman's financial management. as regards the audit, i hope that the ombudsman will implement the two outstanding measures from the internal audit report, and i commend the progress and good practice in financial management: in addition to the improvements in financial planning to ensure more efficient budget implementation, there is also a management plan for 2013 which used measurable targets as performance indicators, which is useful and which i hope will be used in future budget periods.
written. ‒ in line with the fact that the court of auditors concluded in its 2013 annual report that no material shortcomings had been identified in relation to the audited matters relating to human resources and procurement for the european ombudsman and that there were no material errors in the payments for administrative and other expenditure, i support the european parliament's decision on discharge in respect of the implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2013, part viii. european ombudsman. in addition to the above, it is a fact that improvements in financial planning and its supervision are appropriate and ongoing and i support the call for these improvements to continue in the next budgetary periods. i think it is important to highlight the fact that the newly elected european ombudsman is a woman, which is very important given the lack of women in senior positions in the ombudsman's office.
written. ‒ the european ombudsman, as the body that investigates irregularities in the activities of the institutions, bodies, offices and agencies of the european union, is of paramount importance and, in a way, a mirror of the european union's transparency. i support the discharge report on the implementation of the general budget of the european ombudsman for the financial year 2013. i welcome the accuracy and regularity of the financial statements published by the court of auditors. i commend the european ombudsman's continuous efforts in the area of financial planning and its monitoring, as well as the 2013 annual plan, which includes key performance indicators for the service in achieving its objectives. i agree with the call in the report for the european ombudsman to include in his annual reports on work, in accordance with the existing rules on confidentiality and data protection, the results and consequences of the completed proceedings of the european anti-fraud office concerning investigations concerning that institution or any individual employed by it. such a move would certainly increase its credibility, both from the perspective of the other institutions and from the perspective of the citizens of the european union.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the discharge report on the implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2013, part viii european ombudsman, in view of the continuous improvements in the area of financial planning and its supervision. i commend the ombudsman's 2013 annual management plan, which includes indicators to measure the performance of the service in achieving its objectives. the ombudsman is committed to further improving the system for the timely monitoring and control of recruitment and procurement procedures and to further monitoring and improving the efficiency of the management of fees. the ombudsman insists on continuous improvement of financial planning to ensure the most efficient possible implementation of the budget. i welcome the ombudsman's achievement in receiving the official 'award of excellence' award from the european foundation for quality management in 2012 and the fact that an excellent and productive relationship with the foundation was maintained in 2013. i also welcome the fact that the newly elected european ombudsman is a woman. the ombudsman should continue to strive for consistent quality of the annual reports of work and the publication of a comprehensive annual impact assessment report, which is an important tool for assessing his work.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the discharge report on the implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2013, part ix. - european data protection supervisor, on the grounds that the court of auditors found that there were no significant errors in the administrative and other expenditure of the european data protection supervisor. the comments mentioned relate to the large differences in translation costs as opposed to other eu institutions, therefore calls for cost alignment. the commission also notes that the union budget is still short of funds and that the budgetary impact of the union budget is still limited. in this particular case, the comments do not undermine the granting of the exemption.
‒ the european data protection supervisor (edps) was established in 2011 to work with the eu institutions to implement the highest standards of data protection. the court of auditors' report for the financial year 2013 found no irregularities in the accounts of the european data protection supervisor. i therefore supported the discharge report on the implementation of the general budget of the european data protection supervisor for the financial year 2013.
written. ‒ i welcome the fact that the european data protection supervisor took into account the comments of the european parliament in the 2010 and 2012 discharge resolutions in establishing his strategy for 2013 2014, and that the implementation of this strategy is yielding positive results. i fully support the creation of key performance indicators to assess the efficient use of resources and i invite the supervisor to continue to include the analysis of the situation in the annual activity report. i am concerned about the lack of women in leadership positions and look forward to the launch of a plan to provide equal opportunities, so that these irregularities are corrected as soon as possible. i also note the huge differences in translation costs between the various institutions of the union and therefore invite the interinstitutional working group on translation to identify the reasons for these disparities and to propose solutions to address the imbalances and to harmonise translation costs while fully respecting quality and linguistic diversity. the additional audit carried out in june 2013 by the internal audit department of the office of the european data protection supervisor allowed to conclude most of the activities and proposed recommendations for administrative procedures and to establish that no specific recommendations existed on 31 december 2013. i supported the discharge for the financial year 2013 in so far as it relates to the work of the european data protection supervisor.
‒ the european data protection supervisor's primary objective is to ensure that the european institutions and bodies respect the right to privacy and data protection when using personal data. this is an important role, especially in light of recent revelations about the high level of compromise of our personal data and privacy in general. as privacy is particularly important with regard to new technologies such as smartphones and internet services such as remote data storage services and social networks, i welcome the reorganisation of the supervisor's secretariat and the consequent establishment of a new information and communication technologies department and agree with the court's request to be informed of the budgetary impact of the reorganisation.
written. ‒ i consider that there is no reason to oppose this decision, given the court of auditors' conclusion that the payments as a whole for the year ended 31 december 2013 for the administrative and other expenditure of the european data protection supervisor ('the supervisor') are free from material error and that the supervisory and control systems examined for the administrative and other expenditure were effective. i certainly welcome the fact that the authority took into account the observations of the european parliament in its 2010 and 2012 discharge resolutions when establishing its 2013-2014 strategy and that the implementation of that strategy has led to positive results. in general, i agree that the authority should pay more attention to establishing good financial management in terms of the budgetary principle of one year, i.e. economy, efficiency and success in using the appropriated funds at its disposal to meet its obligations.
written. ‒ i support the parliament's report on the discharge to the european data protection supervisor in respect of the implementation of the budget for the financial year 2013. the commission has also received a number of complaints from the member states concerning the lack of transparency in the payment of the amounts due to the commission. i also welcome the recent approval of new instruments, such as activity-based costing and the introduction of a videoconferencing system, which will certainly greatly help to increase the efficiency of the edps's work. the report also shows that the authority took into account the observations of the european parliament in its 2010 and 2012 discharge resolutions in setting up its 2013-2014 strategy and that the implementation of that strategy has produced positive results.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the discharge report on the implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2013, part ix. european data protection supervisor, as the auditors found that the supervisory and control systems for administrative and other expenditure of the european data protection supervisor (the 'supervisor') examined for the year ended 31 december 2013 were effective. i stress that the supervisor's budget is purely administrative. i welcome the commitment of the supervisor to further improve the system for timely monitoring and oversight of recruitment and procurement procedures and support the supervisor in further overseeing the management of remuneration and improving performance levels. the treaty of lisbon increased the powers of the supervisor by extending data protection to all union policy areas. a new instrument, activity-based costing, aimed at increasing efficiency in the allocation of funds, was recently approved and will be introduced in 2015. the internal audit service concluded that significant progress had been made since the previous risk assessment in 2011. the delegated certifying officer shall be responsible for the implementation of the delegated acts referred to in article 7 and shall be responsible for the implementation of the delegated acts referred to in article 7 and for the implementation of the delegated acts referred to in article 7 and for the implementation of the delegated acts referred to in article 7 and the delegated acts referred to in article 8.
written. ‒ i voted yes to the discharge report on the implementation of the budget of the european union agencies for the financial year 2013: performance, financial management and control, because the agencies concerned serve as direct support for the development and implementation of certain european union policies. it is therefore important to grant the discharge in order to ensure the smooth continuation of their work. one of the problems in budgetary and financial management is the high level of earmarked appropriations, which needs to be reduced and improved. in addition, it is necessary to restructure the recruitment process, the visibility and democratic accountability of the agencies, and the implementation of the independence policies. however, the above mentioned facts do not preclude the granting of a discharge to the agencies, which will allow for additional synergies between them, the exchange of best practices, the use of common services and the development of additional communication via a dedicated internet platform.
written. ‒ i consider the increase from three official eu agencies in 2002 to 32 agencies in 2013 to be significant and this report calls on the european commission to consider merging agencies to streamline costs and increase efficiency. it also calls for the budgetary surpluses of these agencies to be transferred to the eu budget, which is why i supported the discharge report on the budgets of the european union agencies for the financial year 2013.
written. ‒ i supported the resolution on the report on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the agencies of the european union for the financial year 2013: performance, financial management and control. the commission should also be able to use the appropriations entered in this article to finance the expenditure of the european parliament and the council for the financial year 2016. the agencies do important work and have a direct impact on the daily lives of europe's citizens. i would like to stress the importance of their autonomy, particularly of regulatory agencies and those with independent information gathering functions. the court of auditors' summary of the results of the 2013 annual audits shows that the agency's budget for 2013 amounted to approximately eur 2 billion, representing an increase of 25% compared to 2012 and approximately 1,4% of the general budget of the union. this increase is mainly due to the creation of new agencies and new tasks for some agencies, although i am of the opinion that it was not necessary to create such a large number of agencies and that the existing ones could take over some tasks. the agencies also employ some 6 500 permanent and temporary staff, representing 14% of the total number of union staff authorised by the general budget of the union.
written. ‒ i support the european parliament's decision on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european union agencies for the financial year 2013: performance, financial management and control the court of auditors' summary of the results of its 2013 annual audits of the european agencies and other bodies shows that the agency's budget for 2013 amounted to approximately eur 2 billion, representing an increase of 25% compared to 2012 and approximately 1,4% of the general budget of the union, and that it is mainly the result of newly established agencies and new tasks for some agencies. i believe that the increase in the number of agencies over the last decade, from three in 2000 to 32 in 2013, demonstrates the importance of the tasks carried out by agencies and their direct impact on the daily lives of union citizens, but also the essential role that agencies play in supporting union policies. in line with this, the risk to the union's reputation associated with agencies is extremely high given that they have a significant impact on policy-making and decision-making and programme implementation in areas of key importance to union citizens, and i welcome the trend towards reporting that focuses more on efficiency and results achieved, including financial results.
written. i support this report on the performance, financial management and control of eu agencies. the european union agencies have a very important role not only in supporting the union's policies but also as direct influences on the daily lives of union citizens. the very fact that the number of agencies has increased over the past decade from three in 2000 to 32 in 2013 speaks volumes about their importance. all the new agencies were created in response to a very specific need. the commission should also be able to provide the necessary information to the member states and the commission on the implementation of the european semester. the report shows that the agency's budget has increased by 25% compared to 2012, which of course also increased the general budget of the union by 1,4%. such growth is largely due to the newly established agencies. i would like to welcome the visible progress in the implementation of the common approach for eu decentralised agencies and the establishment of a coherent plan to monitor that approach. i also welcome the cooperation of the network of agencies with the relevant parliamentary committee.
written. ‒ i support the discharge for the implementation of the budget of the european union agencies for the financial year 2013 because i consider the tasks carried out by the agencies to be important and i support their direct impact on the daily lives of union citizens, their autonomy, in particular of regulatory agencies and those with an independent information gathering function. i would also like to highlight the role of the agencies in supporting the union's policies, the large number of agencies established in the area of freedom, security and justice, and the fact that all new agencies have been established in response to specific needs. i would point out that the principle of 'value for money' also applies to agencies. they should demonstrate that their work is effective and ensure that citizens are informed of the results of the agencies' activities.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the discharge report on the implementation of the budget of the agency for the cooperation of energy regulators for the financial year 2013, as after a thorough analysis it was established that the underlying transactions of the said agency were legal and regular. the agency has also been given the opportunity to present its annual report on the implementation of the union's macro-financial assistance to the countries of central and eastern europe. for that reason, i think it's necessary to grant a discharge.
‒ the agency for the cooperation of energy regulators was established in 2011 under the third energy package with the aim of creating a competitive, sustainable, secure and transparent internal energy market for union citizens. the court of auditors confirmed in its report the reliability of the agency's accounts and the legality and regularity of the transactions for the financial year 2013. on the basis of the court's opinion, i supported the report of mr czarnecki and the european parliament resolution following the decision to close the books of the agency for the cooperation of energy regulators.
written. ‒ the agency for the cooperation of energy regulators is a european institution whose aim is to create a competitive, sustainable, secure and transparent internal energy market for the benefit of all consumers in the eu. the commission shall act in support of the establishment of common rules and initiatives (by issuing guidelines), take care of the development and maintenance of energy infrastructure and monitor the energy market. the agency shall be responsible for the implementation of the agency's activities in the field of energy efficiency. in preparing the numerous instruments for the establishment of a common energy market, the agency cooperates with the eu institutions and their stakeholders, as well as with national energy regulators and european transmission system operators' networks. the agency's budget for the financial year 2013 was eur 11 930 220, representing an increase of 64,74% compared to 2012. the authority will continue to monitor the implementation of the energy union legislation and its implementation in the member states. the financial report showed that the budget implementation rate was 97,53% and that the payment rate was low, at only 55%, due to the rebalancing of the budget adopted on 31 october 2013. the court of auditors' finding demonstrated that the agency's work was lawful and regular. in view of the findings of the court of auditors and the importance of the agency's work, i have supported the discharge for the implementation of the agency's budget for the cooperation of energy regulators for the financial year 2013.
written. ‒ the third energy package, which established the agency for the cooperation of energy regulators, aims to provide an effective regulatory framework for the development of an open and competitive energy market within the union. at the opening of the agency, energy commissioner günther oettinger stated that his priority was to remove all barriers to the internal energy market so that energy could flow freely throughout the union. the agency has a key role to play in this regard, given its responsibilities in addressing cross-border problems of national regulators. the discharge letter mentions several problems and, although none of the problems mentioned are excessive, if they are considered as a whole, it is clear that the agency needs to make progress with regard to further main lines of action for the following year.
written. ‒ as the court of auditors in its report on the annual accounts of the agency for the cooperation of energy regulators for the financial year 2013 expressed its conviction on the reliability of the agency's annual accounts, i support this discharge report on the implementation of the budget of the above-mentioned agency for the year 2013. this report confirms that the agency has implemented a number of measures to improve budget planning procedures by developing and implementing a set of guidelines to be followed by the actors involved in the process. i am pleased that the budget implementation rate has increased by 4% compared to 2012, which is certainly a commendable result.
written. ‒ i supported the discharge for budget implementation, because the agency has implemented a series of measures to improve the budget planning process by developing and implementing a set of guidelines that the actors involved in the budget planning process must follow. the commission shall be assisted by the european parliament and the council. in addition, there is a confirmation by the court of auditors, in the 'report of the court of auditors' on the annual accounts of the agency for the cooperation of energy regulators for the financial year 2013 on the acquisition of assurance that the agency's annual accounts are reliable and that the underlying transactions are legal and regular.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the discharge report on the implementation of the budget of the office of the body of european regulators for electronic communications for the financial year 2013 because the accounting records are in order and the financial statements are reliable. the authority should also be able to provide the necessary information to the commission and to the member states in order to ensure that the authority's decision to grant a financial contribution is taken in accordance with the principles of sound financial management. the office of the body has shown a significant improvement in the area of planning and timely implementation of activities, and i therefore consider it necessary to grant discharge in order to continue the progress of that office.
‒ the office of the body of european regulators for electronic communications was established with the aim of promoting the consistent implementation of eu regulation in the field of electronic communications in all member states. as the court of auditors stated in its report on the office's annual accounts that it had obtained an assurance on the reliability of the accounts, i supported the discharge and the european parliament's resolution.
written. ‒ i welcome the office's efforts to improve the accuracy of budget planning and to minimise the cancellation of commitment appropriations. i invite the office to inform the discharge authority of the results of these measures. the court of auditors' finding on the annual accounts of the office of the body of european regulators for electronic communications for the financial year 2013 is that the office's annual accounts are reliable and that the underlying transactions are legal and regular. i support the decision and expect the office to conduct its activities with a high level of transparency and to continue to provide the public and all interested parties with objective, reliable and easily accessible information about its work.
written. ‒ the body of european regulators for electronic communications was established in 2009 as a committee composed of national regulatory authorities from all member states, with the aim of promoting good practice among national regulatory authorities and developing common approaches, methodologies and ways of acting on electronic communications issues within the framework of european legislation. i share the concern that the level of reversals in 2012 is still relatively high at 28%, compared to 45% in 2012; based on the office's submission, the office confirms that it will continue to address the high reversal level through a thorough analysis of the amounts carried over at the end of the year, which should reduce the overall level of the funds carried over. i hope the agency will take the necessary steps to resolve this matter. i also welcome the fact that for 2013, neither the sampled transactions nor the other audit findings resulted in any comments on the office's procurement or recruitment procedures in the court's report.
written. ‒ i support the decision of the european parliament on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the office of the body of european regulators for electronic communications for the financial year 2013. in accordance with the court of auditors' report on the annual accounts of the office of the body of european regulators for electronic communications for the financial year 2013, which states that the office's annual accounts are reliable and that the underlying transactions are legal and regular, i am satisfied that there are no further impediments to the adoption of this decision. i also stress that the court of auditors' report confirms that the office's budget implementation rates have improved significantly compared to 2012, indicating better planning and timely implementation of activities, but i believe that there is still room for further improvement. i also welcome the work on increasing the level of transparency of the business as the office's annual report confirms the provision of objective, reliable and easily accessible information.
written. ‒ i support this discharge report on the implementation of the budget of the office of the european regulator for electronic communications for the financial year 2013. i welcome the court of auditors' report which sets out the regular final annual documentation of the office of the body of european regulators for electronic communications. in addition, i welcome the corrective actions taken and the handling of the observations in the court of auditors' 2011 report, which are marked as 'completed' in the 2013 report. the commission should also be able to use the appropriations entered in the budget for the financial year 2012 to cover the expenditure incurred by the office in the previous financial year. i believe that the office should seek solutions to this problem as it has already confirmed, for example, that it will explore various methods to reduce payment delays to the set target of 30 days.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the discharge report on the implementation of the budget of the office of the body of european regulators for electronic communications for the financial year 2013, as it is in line with the financial statements. the final budget of the office for the financial year 2013 was eur 3 557 219, representing an increase of 11,51% compared to 2012 due to the recent establishment of the authority. the total union contribution to the office's 2013 budget also increased by 11,47% compared to 2012, according to the financial statements. the court of auditors also stated in its report on the office's annual accounts for the financial year 2013 that it had obtained reasonable assurances that the office's annual accounts were reliable and that the underlying transactions were legal and regular. the court of auditors' report confirmed that the office's budget implementation rates have improved significantly compared to 2012, indicating better planning and timely implementation of activities. at the end of the year, the office had 25 employees and 6 vacancies out of 28 authorised. the office carried out 6 recruitment procedures in 2013. in 2013, two more recruitment procedures were launched.
written. ‒ i voted yes to the discharge report on the implementation of the budget of the translation centre for bodies of the european union for the financial year 2013, which had a budget increase of 8,08% in the same year, and according to the financial report all documentation was correct and reliable. the comments related to framework contracts that were not in line with the implemented rules, then related to internal control, where an action plan was subsequently submitted with the aim of addressing the deficiencies, as well as the 2012 budget surplus caused by external factors beyond the control of the centre itself, which later decided to reduce the budgets of the following years in order to take advantage of the already existing surplus, show that the centre is working to improve its work and i consider that these comments do not prejudice the granting of discharge.
written. ‒ i supported the 2013 discharge of the translation centre for the bodies of the european union as an essential link between all the institutions and to improve the quality of communication between the bodies of the european union and the member states. the court of auditors, in its annual financial report for the translation centre for the bodies of the european union for the financial year 2013, has found that the centre's annual accounts are reliable and that the underlying transactions are legal and regular. i support the fact that in 2014 the centre presented the new policy to its management board and that it was adopted on 29 october 2014 and i am pleased that the centre has published the cvs and declarations of interests of the members of the management board on its website as this is important for the transparency of its business.
‒ the translation centre for the bodies of the european union, based in luxembourg, has its own legal personality and is financed autonomously by fees paid by the agencies, offices and institutions for the provision of translation services. the centre shall provide translation services for other union agencies and institutions and, where necessary, assist other bodies that have their own translation services when their capacities are insufficient. the centre is constantly developing and increasing both in terms of work and staff to handle the increased volume of work. the centre currently employs around 140 staff. it is important to note that the centre also participates in the work of the interinstitutional committee on translation, which aims to promote cooperation based on the principles of subsidiarity and rationalisation in the field of translation, leading to considerable savings. i hope that in the years to come the centre will continue to work successfully, integrating all the official languages, including those of the new member states, in an equal way. in view of the above, i support the decision of the european parliament to dismiss the director of the translation centre for the bodies of the european union for the implementation of the centre's budget for the financial year 2013.
written. ‒ i support the european parliament's decision on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the translation centre for the bodies of the european union for the financial year 2013, as the court of auditors stated in its annual financial report for the translation centre for the bodies of the european union for the financial year 2013 that it has obtained reasonable assurance that the centre's annual accounting records are reliable and that the related transactions are legal and regular. taking into account the essential task of the centre to provide translation services necessary for the performance of the activities of the union institutions or bodies at their request, i consider it important to welcome the fact that the centre has prepared an action plan to reduce administrative costs in the areas of human resources, financial cycles, information technology and infrastructure and that, on the basis of it, it has reached the threshold of reducing administrative costs.
written. ‒ i support this discharge report on the implementation of the budget of the translation centre for the bodies of the european union for the financial year 2013. i welcome the court of auditors' report which sets out the regular final annual documentation of the translation centre for bodies of the european union. in addition to the above, i also welcome the centre's statement that it is preparing an action plan to reduce administrative costs in the areas of human resources, financial cycles, information technology and infrastructure. i am pleased to see that the centre's cash resources have increased from eur 35 000 000 at the end of 2012 to eur 40 000 000 at the end of 2013, but on the other hand there has been an increase in the budget surplus and reserves during the same period, which should certainly be corrected in the coming financial periods.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the discharge report on the implementation of the budget of the translation centre for the bodies of the european union for the financial year 2013, as, according to its financial statements, the final budget of the centre for the financial year 2013 was increased by 8,08% compared to 2012. the court of auditors, in its annual financial report for the financial year 2013 of the 'centre', stated that it had obtained reasonable assurances that the annual accounts of the 'centre' were reliable and that the related transactions were legal and regular and that 5,79% of the appropriations were carried over to 2014. the court of auditors' report shows that the centre's cash resources increased from eur 35 000 000 at the end of 2012 to eur 40 000 000 at the end of 2013, while the budget surplus and reserves increased from eur 30 900 000 to eur 37 500 000. the commission notes that the price reduction was not applied to the product concerned, but to the product concerned. budget deficits are planned for 2014 and 2015 to use the surpluses of previous years.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the discharge report on the implementation of the budget of the european centre for the development of vocational training for the financial year 2013, in view of the sound budgetary and financial management established in 2013 and the correct functioning of the recruitment and procurement procedures. the commission notes that the measures are not intended to create a new competitive environment for the union industry. minor complaints, like the one about the delay in repairing the center's building, do not diminish the need to give the center a discharge.
‒ the european centre for the development of vocational training was established in 1975 to support the development of european vocational education and training, to raise awareness of policies and to help implement them. the centre also assists the commission, the member states and the social partners in the development of vocational education and training policies. the discharge proposes to close the books of the centre for the financial year 2013 on the basis of the court of auditors' decision on the reliability of the accounting records and i therefore supported it.
written. ‒ according to the financial statements, the final budget of the european centre for the development of vocational training for the financial year 2013 was eur 17 925 075, representing a decrease of 6,72% compared to 2012. whereas, according to its reports, the total contribution from the union to the centre's budget for 2013 amounted to eur 17133 900, representing an increase of 1,18% compared to 2012, and whereas the court of auditors, in its report on the annual accounts of the european centre for the development of vocational training for the financial year 2013, stated that it had obtained a reasonable assurance that the centre's annual accounts were reliable; the commission has also received a number of comments from interested parties, including from the french authorities, the spanish authorities and the commission. the commission notes that the 2013 commitments were made in the context of the 2013 budgetary procedure. in view of the orderly functioning shown, i have endorsed the discharge for the european centre for the development of vocational training for the financial year 2013.
‒ the european centre for the development of vocational training has an advisory role and assists the commission, the member states, the eu institutions and other organisations with which it cooperates to make informed decisions on vocational training policies on the basis of its research and data. the centre provides its staff with up-to-date information on the state and trends in vocational education and training in the eu and produces studies and reports on vocational education and training issues such as quality, transparency and accreditation of non-formal learning, sector trends, new qualifications, funding, etc. the commission shall be assisted by the european parliament and the council. i agree with the decision of the european parliament to grant the director of the european centre for the development of vocational training discharge in respect of the implementation of the centre's budget for the financial year 2013. the centre has a very important role to play in promoting vocational education and training across the union at a time when new methods of training are needed. the centre also makes a major contribution to policies aimed at exploring the potential of vocational education and training to support economic development and facilitate the transition from education to work.
written. ‒ i have supported the discharge for the european centre for the development of vocational training authorising the implementation of the budget for the financial year 2013, as the court of auditors has confirmed the reliability of the accounting documentation and approved the closure of the accounts. according to the financial statements, the final budget of the european centre for the development of vocational training for the financial year 2013 was eur 17 925 075, representing a decrease of 6,72% compared to 2012. the total union contribution to the budget of the european centre for the development of vocational training for 2013 amounted to eur 17 133 900, an increase of 1,18% compared to 2012. the work of the european centre for the development of vocational training is of particular importance for the union's policy agenda in the field of vocational education, training and retraining. concerns were expressed that the trend of low economic demand contributing to high unemployment would strengthen and maintain the skills supply/demand imbalance and the obsolescence of skills due to over-qualification and unemployment. the facts presented in the report highlight the commendable experience of some member states with dual education systems, noting that dual education should not be seen as the final solution to high youth unemployment.
written. ‒ i support this report taking into account the fact that the final accounting documentation of the european training foundation is in line with the annex to the court of auditors' report. i welcome the fact that an agreement has been concluded with the authorities of the piedmont region in italy on the premises of the foundation in 2013 guaranteeing the continuation of the foundation's work in the period 2013-2015. i join the congratulations, addressed to the foundation by the committee on employment and social affairs, on the 99% success rate in terms of the implementation of the objectives set out in its four work programmes during the period 2010-2013. the success of the implemented objectives has led to exceptional progress in the development of structural training and upskilling reforms achieved through the turin process and other specific policy analyses undertaken by partner countries, ultimately resulting in the development of national policies that help ensure future sustainability.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the discharge report on the implementation of the budget of the european centre for the development of vocational training for the financial year 2013, as according to its financial statements the total union contribution to the centre's budget for 2013 increased by 1,18% compared to 2012. in the context of the cooperation framework, the centre shall coordinate its work with that of the european training foundation and the european foundation for the improvement of living and working conditions in order to enhance synergies and knowledge exchange. the representative actions taken by the centre in terms of cost-effective environmental solutions are welcomed. the work of the centre is of paramount importance for the union's policy agenda in the field of vocational education, training and retraining. the centre is conducting its first pan-european skills survey (eu skills). the centre was recognised for the results of the 2013 evaluation carried out by the commission, which recognised it as a leading centre of expertise on qualifications and skills frameworks in the world, and for having had an important impact on strengthening cooperation between vocational training and advanced training policy stakeholders in europe.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the discharge report on the implementation of the budget of the european police college for the financial year 2013 because the college has improved its budget structure and increased its control over its implementation through a new budgetary transfer procedure, and has developed targeted policies to prevent conflicts of interest. in addition, significant savings were made by moving to the new headquarters in budapest. the commission should also be able to request the discharge of the union's macro-financial assistance to the union in accordance with article 21 of the financial regulation.
‒ the european police college was established in 2005 as an agency of the european union to train senior police officers and to foster cross-border cooperation in the fight against crime, the maintenance of public security and public order, with a particular focus on international organised crime such as drug trafficking or terrorism. the report of mr czarnecki gives discharge to the european police college for the implementation of the budget for the financial year 2013. i supported the discharge as it was granted on the basis of a decision of the court of auditors.
the final budget of the european police college for the financial year 2013 was eur 8 450 640. the court of auditors, in its report on the annual accounts of the european police college for the financial year 2013, stated that it had obtained reasonable assurances that the annual accounts of the college were reliable and that the underlying transactions were legal and regular. the budgetary controls carried out during the financial year 2013 resulted in an implementation rate of 94,89% and a payment appropriations execution rate of 92,46%. i welcome the efforts made by the academy to significantly increase its payment execution rate from 76% in 2012. the court of auditors considers that the annual accounts of the european police college present, in all material respects, a true and fair view of cepol's financial position as at 31 december 2013 and of the results of its operations and cash flows for the financial year. in view of the findings and the situation presented, i have supported the discharge for the budget of the european police college for the financial year 2013.
‒ the european police college brings together senior police officers from across europe to foster cross-border cooperation in the fight against crime, public security and public order. as regards transparency and open procurement and recruitment procedures, i am pleased that the academy is currently in the process of reviewing its conflict of interest mechanisms with a view to developing a specific policy on conflicts of interest on the basis of the commission's draft guidelines on the prevention and handling of conflicts of interest in decentralised union agencies. the commission notes that the commission has not provided any information on the number of beneficiaries of the scheme, but that the number of beneficiaries of the scheme is limited to the number of beneficiaries of the scheme. in view of the above, i support the issuing of the cepol advisory opinion for the financial year 2013.
written. ‒ i have supported the discharge for the european police college approving the implementation of the budget for the financial year 2013 as the court of auditors has confirmed the reliability of the accounting documentation and approved the closure of the accounts. the budgetary controls carried out during the financial year 2013 resulted in an implementation rate of 94,89% and a payment appropriations execution rate of 92,46%. the academy introduced a new budgetary carry-over procedure in 2013 which improved the budget structure and carried out nine budgetary transfers totalling eur 500 000. all transfers have been made in accordance with the financial regulation and its implementing rules. the academy officially resumed its activities in its new headquarters in budapest in october 2014, which was carried out in accordance with the principles of sound financial management and resulted in annual savings of up to eur 200 000. i welcome such savings in the academy's operating costs and the fact that the use of offices in the new headquarters is free of charge and that it includes in its next annual report a review of the savings achieved in operating costs.
written. ‒ i support the discharge report on the implementation of the budget of the european police college for the financial year 2013. i welcome the court of auditors' assertions, set out in this report, on the regular final annual documentation of the european police college. in addition to the above, i welcome the corrective action taken and the resolution of one of the four observations in the 2011 court of auditors report, which was marked as 'completed' in the 2013 report, but i also express my dissatisfaction with the remaining three unresolved observations and hereby appeal to the academy to work towards resolving these problems as soon as possible. i am pleased to see the centre's efforts to improve its communication with eu citizens by publishing information on the academy's website on the impact of its activities on eu citizens. the annual publication of strategic documents, including the annual report, contributes greatly to the transparency of the academy's work and its perception by citizens.
written. ‒ i supported the discharge report on the implementation of the budget of the european police college for the financial year 2013, as the college's management board decided in april 2014 to outsource part of its accounting service to the commission, and takes note of the college's efforts to reduce its administrative expenditure, as well as the college's efforts to significantly increase its payment execution rate, which stood at 76% in 2012. the academy introduced a new procedure for budgetary transfers which improved the structure of the budget and increased the control of its execution rate. the academy's management board adopted a policy on the prevention and management of conflicts of interest in november 2014. the academy officially resumed its work in its new headquarters in budapest in october 2014. the academy's efforts to move to the new seat are welcomed in line with the principles of sound financial management as well as the academy's operational cost savings.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the discharge report on the implementation of the budget of the european aviation safety agency for the financial year 2013, as it is necessary to ensure the smooth functioning of the agency in order to implement and complete the processes and projects started. the agency should, however, improve and raise the level of transparency and prevent conflicts of interest and, accordingly, adopt appropriate policies to manage such situations. it is also important to note that the agency is the backbone of air safety in europe and the discharge is therefore essential for its efficient and functional operation.
‒ the european aviation safety agency was established in 2002 to help the commission develop new rules on aviation safety. the commission shall be responsible for the implementation of the union's policy on civil aviation safety and the implementation of the union's policy on civil aviation safety. i supported the discharge for the implementation of the budget of the european aviation safety agency for the financial year 2013, as it is based on the court of auditors' report and its certification of the reliability of the agency's accounts.
written. ‒ according to the financial reports of the european aviation safety agency for the financial year 2013, its final budget of eur 167,023,535 was increased by 5,15% compared to 2012. according to the agency's financial statements, the union contribution to its 2013 budget amounted to eur 40 518 135, which also represents an increase of 4,83% compared to the previous year 2012. as the court of auditors stated in its report on the annual accounts of the european aviation safety agency for the financial year 2013, that it has obtained reasonable assurances that the agency's annual accounts are reliable and that the underlying transactions are legal and regular, i have supported the discharge for the implementation of the budget of the european aviation safety agency for the financial year 2013.
written. ‒ the development of air safety rules is important to move towards the goal of a single european sky, which is important for the mobility of eu citizens, but also for the efficiency of those who often travel by air on european routes for business reasons. the commission should be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 290 tfeu concerning the establishment of a european aviation safety agency. the commission should also be able to assess the impact of the new rules on the implementation of the union's financial instruments, in particular the financial instruments for the period 2014-2020 and the financial instruments for the period 2014-2020.
written. ‒ i have supported the discharge of the european aviation safety agency authorising the implementation of the budget for the financial year 2013 as the court of auditors has confirmed the reliability of the accounting documentation and approved the closure of the accounts. the information and statistics relating to the handling of conflicts of interest are included in its 2013 annual report. the agency spent approximately eur 22 000 000 in 2013 on public procurement procedures to outsource part of its certification activities to national air traffic authorities and qualified entities and there is a critical need to improve transparency in outsourcing by better recording the assignment procedures. the european aviation safety agency has a key role to play in ensuring the highest possible level of aviation safety across europe, with the emphasis that the current review of the single european sky legislation could lead to an increase in the authority of the agency and, in the event of an increase in its competence, provide it with the necessary financial, material and human resources to enable it to perform its tasks successfully.
written. ‒ i support the discharge report on the implementation of the budget of the european aviation safety agency for the financial year 2013. i would like to emphasise the importance of this agency as it plays a key role in ensuring the highest possible safety of air traffic in europe and its participants. the agency shall be responsible for the implementation of the agency's budget and shall be accountable to the member states for the implementation of the agency's budget. i welcome the court of auditors' assertions, contained in this report, on the regular final annual documentation of the european aviation safety agency. in addition to the above, i also welcome the corrective action taken and the resolution of the observation in the court of auditors' 2011 report, which was marked as 'completed' in the 2013 report. i would agree with the remark in the report on further strengthening the agency's independence policy as the issue of conflict of interest is of paramount importance in every respect, and in particular with regard to the members of the panel of experts invited to examine and approve products. the commission has also received comments from the member states and the authority on the application of the new rules on the application of the new rules on the application of the new rules on the application of the new rules on the application of the new rules on the application of the new rules on the application of the new rules on the application of the new rules on the application of the new rules on the application of the new rules on the application of the new rules on the application of the new rules on the application of the new rules on the application of the new rules on the application of the new rules on the application of the new rules on the application of the new rules on the application of the new rules on the application of the new rules on the application of the new rules on the application of the new rules on the application of the new rules on the application of the new rules on the application of the new rules on the application of the new rules on the application of the new rules on the application of the new rules on application of the new rules on application of the new rules.
written. ‒ i supported the discharge report on the implementation of the budget of the european aviation safety agency for the financial year 2013, as according to the financial statements of the european aviation safety agency (the 'agency') for the financial year 2013, its final budget increased by 5,15% compared to 2012, while according to the financial statements of the agency its contribution to the union budget for 2013 increased by 4,83% compared to 2012. the cvs, declarations of financial interests of the executive director, the director and the head of department were published in full on 1 december 2014 on the agency's website at the request of the discharge authority of the agency for 2012. the agency has also developed a number of new activities to improve the quality of the air navigation services provided by the air carriers certified in the member states. the overall reduction in the overall rate of carry-over of commitment appropriations from eur 10 100 000 (11%) in 2012 to eur 7 200 000 (8%) in 2013. the agency has a key role to play in ensuring the highest possible level of aviation safety across europe.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the discharge report on the implementation of the budget of the european asylum support office for the financial year 2013 because, on the basis of the court of auditors' report, all the office's accounting records are legal, regular and reliable. the commission shall be assisted by the european parliament and the council.
‒ the european asylum support office was established in 2010 and has a key role in implementing the common european asylum system. the main purpose of the office is to improve practical cooperation on asylum issues and to help member states to fulfil their european and international obligations. the commission shall also provide support to member states whose asylum and reception systems are under particular strain. the court of auditors, in its report, has confirmed the reliability of the annual accounts of the european asylum support office for the financial year 2013. accordingly, i have supported the discharge for the purpose of implementing the office's budget.
written. ‒ the european asylum support office is an agency that acts as a centre of expertise on asylum, contributes to the development of the common european asylum system by facilitating coordination and strengthening practical cooperation between member states on many aspects of asylum, helps member states to fulfil their european and international obligations to achieve the protection of people in need, provides practical and technical support to member states and the european commission, provides operational support to member states with special needs and member states whose asylum and reception systems are under particular pressure, provides evidence-based input to eu policies and legislation in all areas that have a direct or indirect impact on asylum. the financial report showed that the budget execution rate was 87,34%. the work of the bureau is very significant in our time, especially when we witness disasters and persecutions on a daily basis. i supported the relief committee precisely because of the need for the office to work on asylum issues. unfortunately, even under such extreme conditions, the use of resources is not maximum and i believe that today's decision can also be understood as a guide to how eu funds for this purpose must be better planned and used.
written. ‒ the european asylum support office is an independent asylum expertise centre that supports, facilitates, coordinates and strengthens practical cooperation between member states and contributes to the implementation of the common european asylum system. in times of multiple economic and political crises on the european union's doorstep, when we are faced with an increasing number of asylum seekers, this office deserves our additional support. in recent years, with the number of asylum seekers increasing significantly, and unevenly across member states, the work of this office has become even more important. the european parliament has decided to grant a discharge to the director-general of the european asylum support office in respect of the implementation of the office's budget for the financial year 2013, and i support that decision.
written. ‒ i support this report taking into account the fact that the final accounting documentation of the european asylum support office (easo) is in line with the annex to the court of auditors' report. i welcome the conclusions of the court of auditors already mentioned and agree with the opinion of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs that the annual reports of easo for the financial year 2013 present a true and fair view of the financial situation of easo in all aspects of its operations. the court of auditors has addressed certain observations to easo, on the need for improvements in the reliability of accounting records, internal controls and budget management, which i support but also consider that account should be taken of the fact that the financial year 2013 was the first full year in which easo operated as a financially independent body. i also agree with the opinion of the said committee that easo should pay greater attention to the principle of sound financial management in accordance with the principles of economy, efficiency and effectiveness in the use of the appropriations.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the discharge report on the implementation of the budget of the european asylum support office for the financial year 2013, as significant progress has been made in budget planning compared to the financial year 2012, during which the office became financially independent. the office adopted the observations of the court and amended the declaration of conflict of interest for selection boards to include a declaration of professional relationship that may be a potential source of conflict of interest, while the guidelines for the policy on the prevention and management of conflicts of interest were signed in 2013. the office also provided information on the implementation of the new conflict of interest policy. the authority notes that the number of late payments decreased by mid-2013, but in the last quarter of 2013 these delays reappeared due to a significant increase in the volume of work at the end of the year, but welcomes the new procedures initiated by the authority to reduce the rate of late payments. the office conducted its own assessment of the implementation status of the internal control standards in march 2013, demonstrating its determination to understand and establish an environment for the implementation of sound internal controls.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the discharge report on the implementation of the budget of the european banking authority for the financial year 2013, as the discharge in this particular case contributes to the work of the authority whose budgetary and financial management has proved positive in 2013. the authority has succeeded in reducing the level of committed appropriations carried over from 2012 and in improving public procurement procedures. the authority will not consider the possibility of a discharge to be disproportionate.
‒ the european banking authority is an independent body of the union, but it is accountable to parliament, the council and the commission and is one of the three bodies of the european system of financial supervision. the authority's role is to ensure the financial stability, integrity, efficiency and proper functioning of the banking sector and to supervise the european banking sector. in accordance with the financial statements and on the basis of the opinion on the accounts of the court of auditors, i have endorsed the report approving the closure of the accounts of the european banking authority for the financial year 2013.
‒ the european banking authority (eba) is an independent eu body whose job is to ensure an effective and consistent level of prudential regulation and supervision of the european banking sector. its main objectives are to maintain financial stability in the eu and to ensure the integrity, efficiency and proper functioning of the banking sector. the financial report showed that the final budget of the european banking authority for the financial year 2013 was eur 25 967 360, representing an increase of 25,16% compared to 2012, as a consequence of the authority being newly established. the court of auditors' finding has shown that the agency's annual accounting records are reliable and that the underlying transactions are legal and regular. taking into account the findings of the court of auditors, and the authority's task in establishing high-quality common regulatory and supervisory standards and practices and the consistent application of legally binding union acts, and in monitoring and assessing market developments as well as promoting the protection of depositors and investors, i have supported the discharge for the implementation of the european banking authority's budget for the financial year 2013.
written. ‒ ensuring the integrity, efficiency and proper functioning of the banking sector is important for the financial stability of the european union and therefore the work of the european banking authority, especially in terms of its transparency and lack of conflict of interest of staff, is extremely important for the future of the union and i therefore support the call on the authority to make the cvs of the members of the management board public, for example by publishing them on the website. i also hope that the unnecessary administrative burden of the authority's current inflexible blended finance system will soon be changed, on the recommendation of the economic and monetary policy committee, to be financed directly from the budget of the european union.
written. ‒ i have supported the discharge of the european banking authority in respect of the implementation of the budget for the financial year 2013, as the court of auditors confirmed the reliability of the accounting records and approved the closure of the accounts and pointed out that the underlying transactions were legal and regular. the authority's annual activity report and the court's report show that the level and nature of the transfer of funds during 2013 remained within the limits of the financial rules and without prejudice to the authority's public procurement procedures. corrective actions were taken with regard to the recommendations of the court and the dismissal authority in all remaining recruitment procedures in 2012 and have been systematically implemented in all subsequent recruitment procedures. the authority shall cooperate closely with the european insurance and occupational pensions authority and the european securities and capital markets authority with regard to all support functions in order to reduce administrative costs, enhance synergies and exchange best practices. the combined financing of the european banking authority is inflexible and creates a burden and a potential threat to its independence, and the commission is therefore invited to propose, by 2017, if it considers it appropriate on the basis of its own assessment, a financing system for the authority based solely on the introduction of monetary fees for market participants or the merging of the fees for market participants with core financing from a separate budget line of the general budget of the union.
written. ‒ i support this discharge report on the implementation of the budget of the european banking authority for the financial year 2013. i welcome the statement by the court of auditors in its report on the annual accounts of the european banking authority for the year 2013 that it has obtained reasonable assurance that the annual accounts are reliable and that the underlying transactions have been carried out in a lawful and regular manner. i would like to emphasise the role of the european banking authority (eba) in promoting a common supervisory regime across the single market, which is very important for creating a more efficient, secure and connected banking sector in the european union, which would ultimately greatly help economic recovery and job creation in europe as well as growth in general. it is important to emphasise that eba, due to limited resources, has to respect the tasks entrusted to it by the union legislator. i agree with the recommendation of the committee on economic and monetary affairs that the eba should make full use of its consumer protection powers in the future under its existing mandate.
written. i voted in favour of the discharge report on the implementation of the budget of the european banking authority for the financial year 2013, as the authority's task is to contribute to the establishment of high-quality common regulatory and supervisory standards and practices and the consistent application of legally binding union acts, to encourage and facilitate the delegation of tasks and responsibilities between competent authorities, to monitor and assess market developments in its area of competence and to promote the protection of depositors and investors. the authority shall cooperate with the european insurance and occupational pensions authority and the european securities and capital markets authority with regard to all support functions in order to reduce administrative costs, enhance synergies and exchange best practices. the role of the european insurance and occupational pensions authority in promoting a common supervisory regime across the single market is key to creating a more efficient, secure and connected banking sector in the union, thereby generating numerous contributions.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the discharge report on the implementation of the budget of the european centre for disease prevention and control for the financial year 2013, as the discharge is necessary to allow the centre to continue with the work it has started. the commission has not received any comments from interested parties on the measures in force. in this context, the centre has launched concrete initiatives to strengthen the overall public procurement procedures. the commission has also received comments from the member states and the european parliament on the implementation of the new rules on the european union agency for fundamental rights.
‒ the european centre for disease prevention and control was established in 2005 to strengthen europe's protection against infectious diseases. the main task of the centre is to identify, assess and report on current and emerging threats to human health posed by communicable diseases and to assist in the coordination of the member states' preparedness capacities. i have endorsed the discharge report on the implementation of the budget of the european centre for disease prevention and control for the financial year 2013, which is based on the court of auditors' report on the centre's accounts.
‒ the european centre for disease prevention and control (ecdc) was established by regulation (ec) no 851/2004 of the european parliament and of the council and started its work on 20 may 2005. the centre's mission is to contribute to the defence of europe against infectious diseases such as influenza, sars and hiv/aids. the centre has a small staff but a wide network of partners throughout the eu and eea/efta member states. in cooperation with national health authorities, it is working to establish and strengthen disease surveillance and early warning systems at european level. the centre shall cooperate with the european union and the member states in the field of public health and public health education and training, including in the field of public health, and with the european union agency for fundamental rights. the mission of the ecdc is to identify, assess and report on current and emerging threats to human health posed by communicable diseases and to support and assist in coordinating the preparedness capacities of the countries of the european union. the financial report showed a relatively low budget implementation rate of 92,96%, and the final budget of the centre for the financial year 2013 was eur 58 315 000, representing an increase of 0,2% compared to 2012. i supported the discharge because of the proper financial report.
written. ‒ takes note that in 2013, the european centre for disease prevention and control was made available to the general budget of the union with an amount of eur 58 315 356; underlines that this amount represents 0,039% of the general budget of the eu, welcomes the fact that the centre had a positive budgetary result in 2013, which, when added to the negative results of previous years, still gives a positive budgetary result overall; the amount of assigned revenue in accordance with article 21 (3) of the financial regulation is estimated at eur 100000. i welcome the fact that the court of auditors considers that the underlying transactions in the centre's annual accounts for the financial year 2013 are legal and regular in all material respects and i therefore support the recommendation to grant the executive director of the european centre for disease prevention and control discharge in respect of the implementation of the centre's budget for the financial year 2013.
written. ‒ i have supported the european centre for disease prevention and control (ecdc) discharge for the financial year 2013, as the court of auditors confirmed the reliability of the accounting records and approved the closure of the accounts. the budget monitoring efforts during the financial year 2013 resulted in a relatively low budget implementation rate of 92,96%, with a payment appropriation execution rate of 74,14%. it was noted with concern that cancellations of appropriations occurred in all headings and that the execution rate of payment appropriations decreased by 2,12% compared to the previous year. the commission's internal audit service carried out a comprehensive risk assessment during 2013 which provided the basis for the centre's strategic internal audit plan and which sets out the proposed audit topics for the period 2014 to 2016. the internal audit service (ias) has followed up the implementation of its previous recommendations with a desk review of the documents and has confirmed, based on the centre's submission, that there were no outstanding, very important or key recommendations as at 31 december 2013.
written. ‒ i support the report referred to in the title and agree with the proposal for a decision of the european parliament on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european centre for disease prevention and control for the financial year 2013. i welcome the statement by the court of auditors in its report on the annual accounts of the european banking authority for the year 2013 that it has obtained reasonable assurance that the annual accounts are reliable and that the underlying transactions were carried out in a lawful and regular manner in all material respects. in view of the fact that the centre receives funds from the union budget and not as a subsidy from the commission or the community as indicated in some documents, i invite the centre to clearly indicate the sources of funding in its communication, both internal and external. the efforts of the centre to implement the corrective actions taken on the basis of the previous comments of the court of auditors, and in particular the adoption of the ex post verification strategy, as well as the determination of the centre to monitor more closely the costs of operational meetings in order to avoid unnecessary transfers or cancellations, are certainly commendable. in view of the above, i consider that there is no reason to delay the discharge and i agree with the parliament's proposal and the opinion of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety.
written. ‒ i supported the discharge report on the implementation of the budget of the european centre for disease prevention and control for the financial year 2013, as, according to its financial reports, the final budget of the centre for the financial year 2013 was increased by 0,2% compared to 2012. the centre has taken the initiative to strengthen the public procurement area by establishing a procurement and legal services department and restructuring its public procurement and financial activities. during 2013, the commission's internal audit service carried out a comprehensive risk assessment which provided the basis for the centre's strategic internal audit plan, setting out the proposed audit topics for the period 2014 to 2016. the centre's efforts to complete the corrective actions taken on the basis of previous comments by the court of auditors are welcomed, as is its determination to monitor more closely the costs of operational meetings in order to avoid unnecessary transfers or cancellations. by the end of 2013, 190 of the 198 posts provided for in the job creation plan had been filled, and a higher occupancy rate than in 2012 was confirmed.
written. ‒ i voted yes to the discharge report on the implementation of the budget of the european chemicals agency for the financial year 2013, as it allows the agency to continue the work it has started, which has proven to be successful in its budgetary and financial management, while there were no objections to the public procurement procedures. however, further improvements are needed to improve policies and ensure the transparency and independence of the agency itself. the commission notes that the aid granted to the beneficiary is limited to the minimum necessary to ensure that the aid is compatible with the internal market.
written. ‒ the european chemicals agency, established in 2007, aims to ensure consistent implementation of chemicals regulations across europe, with the aim of improving quality of life. since 2012, the agency has been responsible for managing the technical, scientific and administrative aspects of the biocidal products regulation, as well as similar tasks related to the export and import of hazardous chemicals. the court of auditors stated that the agency's annual accounts were reliable and on that basis the discharge report for the financial year 2013 was approved, which i supported.
written. ‒ i support the report referred to in the title and welcome the fact that the court of auditors considers that the transactions underlying the chemicals agency's annual accounts for the financial year 2013 are legal and regular in all material respects. the agency has also been asked to provide a report on the implementation of the recommendations of the court of auditors in its annual report on the implementation of the recommendations of the court of auditors. the agency should, like other european union agencies that are funded in this way, clearly indicate in its internal and external communications that it receives the funds allocated to it under the union budget and not as a subsidy from the commission or the community. the report also states that the declarations of interests of the agency are transparent and i hereby call on the agency to continuously review its internal processes in order to further improve its policies and ensure independence and transparency in all areas of its work.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the discharge report on the implementation of the budget of the european chemicals agency for the financial year 2013. in accordance with regulation (ec) no 1907/2006 of the european parliament and of the council (reach regulation) (23), the agency is financed by fees paid by industry for the registration of chemicals and by a possible union budgetary balancing subsidy as referred to in article 185 of regulation (ec, euratom) no 1605/2002 and in 2013 for the third consecutive year it is fully financed by the revenue from the fees for the registration, classification, authorisation and restriction of chemicals and for classification, labelling and packaging operations. the sme envoy is appointed to represent the interests of small enterprises within the agency and beyond. the agency's priority is to provide intensive support so that smes can meet the requirements without imposing a disproportionate burden on them. the agency's activities are focused on the development of a european approach to the prevention of and response to emerging threats to the environment, and on the promotion of sustainable development and sustainable development in the union. the agency's representative actions in terms of cost-effective and good environmental solutions are welcomed.
‒ the european chemicals agency (echa) is an agency of the european union, which works to improve the quality of life and ensure the safe use of chemicals in europe. the echa's task is to ensure the consistent implementation of european chemicals legislation that will take account of human health and the environment and promote innovation and competitiveness. the agency helps companies comply with chemicals legislation, advocates for the safe use of chemicals, addresses issues related to potentially harmful chemicals and informs stakeholders about chemicals. the agency's expenditure related to biocidal products is partly financed by fees paid by industry and partly by a 2013 union subsidy under the biocidal products regulation. the agency's budget is financed by a union grant for the largest part of its budget, as the agency only started to open accounts with entities registered in accordance with the regulation as from 1 september 2013. the budget implementation rate was 98,64% and the payment appropriations execution rate was 86,18%. the implementation rate of appropriations increased by 3,28% compared with the previous year. the court of auditors, in its report, considers the implementation rates of the budget for titles i and ii to be satisfactory. in view of the importance of the agency in ensuring chemical safety and sound financial management, i have supported the discharge for the implementation of the budget of the european chemicals agency for the financial year 2013.
written. ‒ the european chemicals agency aims to ensure consistency in chemical management in the european union, providing technical and scientific advice, guidance and information on chemicals. the authority also has the responsibility for coordinating and implementing the new regulations. i support the decision of the european parliament to grant the director of the european chemicals agency discharge in respect of the implementation of the agency's budget for the financial year 2013. i particularly commend the progress made compared with the previous year as stated in the court's report. the commission has not received any comments from interested parties on the measures in force. i also agree with the rapporteur, mr czarencki, who welcomes the work of the agency in implementing union chemicals legislation within its statutory role and responsibilities.
written. ‒ i have supported the european chemicals agency (echa) discharge for the financial year 2013, as the court of auditors confirmed the reliability of the accounting records and approved the closure of the accounts. since 2012, the agency has been responsible for the management and implementation of the technical, scientific and administrative aspects of regulation (eu) no 528/2012 of the european parliament and of the council (the biocidal products regulation) and for similar tasks related to the export and import of hazardous chemicals under regulation (eu) no 649/2012 of the european parliament and of the council (the prior informed consent regulation). the commission granted a grant to the agency of eur 920 900 to compensate for revenue foregone and received on 30 december 2013 an exceptional one-off voluntary contribution from norway of eur 177 057 (to develop biocidal products related services in the agency). the budget monitoring during the financial year 2013 resulted in a budget implementation rate of 98,64% and a payment appropriation execution rate of 86,18%, an increase of 3,28% compared to the previous year. the representative actions taken by the agency in terms of cost-effective environmental solutions are commendable.
written. ‒ i voted yes to the discharge report on the implementation of the budget of the european environment agency for the financial year 2013 as it allows the agency to continue its work without any disruption as no problems were observed with regard to the rate of transfer of funds in 2013 and the process of reviewing the staff and organisational structure continues, allowing the agency to carry out its work efficiently. the commission has not found any evidence that the commission has failed to take into account the fact that the commission has not provided a sufficient evidence to justify the imposition of the measures.
‒ the european environment agency was established in 1990 by council regulation no 1210/90. since then, the agency has been helping the eu institutions to make high-quality decisions on environmental issues. the court of auditors' report for the financial year 2013 found that there were no irregularities in the accounts of the european environment agency and i have therefore based that court of auditors' report and endorsed the discharge report for the european environment agency for the financial year 2013.
written. ‒ the european environment agency is a key source of information for all actors involved in the development, adoption, implementation and evaluation of environmental policy, as well as for the general public. the eea's mission is to help the community and the member states make informed decisions on improving the environment, integrating environmental issues into economic policies and moving towards sustainability, and to coordinate the european environment information and observation network. the financial report showed a budget implementation rate of 98,66% and a payment execution rate of 88,92%. the court of auditors' finding has shown that the agency's work is lawful, orderly and regular. in view of the findings and the importance of the agency's work, and bearing in mind that the agency's data are important users, alongside european and national authorities and the business community, academia, non-governmental organisations and other parts of civil society, i supported the discharge for the implementation of the budget of the european environment agency for the financial year 2013.
written. ‒ the european environment agency aims to provide high-quality and independent environmental information. it is a key source of information for all actors, including the general public, involved in the development, adoption, implementation and evaluation of environmental policy. the agency assists the community and the member states in making informed decisions on improving the environment by integrating environmental issues into economic policies and by coordinating the european environment information and observation network. further to the fact that the checks covered payments in 2013 which represented 20,45% of the beneficiaries' total personnel-related costs and that 0,12% of the controlled costs were considered unacceptable, i join the calls for the agency to further improve the level of its ex ante checks to ensure the eligibility of the beneficiaries and to inform the discharge authority of further progress in this regard.
written. ‒ i have supported the discharge of the european environment agency (eea) for the financial year 2013, as the court of auditors confirmed the reliability of the accounting records and approved the closure of the accounts. according to the financial statements of the european environment agency for the financial year 2013, its final budget amounted to eur 49 270 722, representing an increase of 18,16% compared to 2012, where the increase primarily relates to operational expenditure for strategic actions. the budgetary control efforts during the financial year 2013 resulted in an implementation rate of 98,66% and a payment appropriations execution rate of 88,92%. the court's annual audit did not identify any major problems with regard to the level of transfers in 2013. the court of auditors' report shows that in 2013, the agency awarded grants under five programmes to associations of european environmental bodies, united nations organisations and national environmental organisations. the total cost of the grants in 2013 was eur 13 900 000 million, representing 31% of the total operating expenditure. in line with the court of auditors' 2014 observation, the agency has reinforced the checks on the eligibility and accuracy of the costs claimed by staff under the grant programme as they represent the largest part of the total costs.
written. ‒ i support the discharge report on the implementation of the budget of the european environment agency for the financial year 2013, as mentioned in the title. i also welcome the court of auditors' report which sets out the regular final annual accounts of the european environment agency for the year 2013 in question. i would like to welcome the agency's efforts to continuously review its staff structure and organisational structure to ensure that it carries out its work in the most efficient way possible. in view of the above, i welcome the fact that two new ad posts are planned to be opened in 2013 to cover new tasks related to two important themes, namely climate change mitigation and air quality reporting. the two problems that the european union and the rest of the world are facing are indeed today's problems and it is very important to give them special attention in order to find solutions as soon as possible and to find ways of reducing the negative impact on the environment, because ultimately it affects our lives.
written. ‒ i supported the discharge report on the implementation of the budget of the european environment agency for the financial year 2013, as according to the financial report of the european environment agency (the 'agency') for the financial year 2013, its final budget was increased by 18,16% compared to 2012 and the increase primarily relates to operational expenditure for strategic actions. the agency shall be committed to continuously reviewing its staff structure and organisational structure in order to ensure that it carries out its work and meets the challenges it faces in the most effective way possible. in 2013, 2 new ad posts were added to the establishment plan to cover new tasks: climate change mitigation and air quality reporting. the agency awarded grants under 5 programmes in the same year and it is welcomed that it provides written guidance to beneficiaries to better understand the justification of costs and the need for supporting documentation.
written. ‒ i voted for the discharge report on the implementation of the budget of the european fisheries control agency for the financial year 2013, which has shown its exceptional importance in the implementation of fisheries policies, activities and objectives in the eu member states. the agency has operated very successfully and the comments concerning the transfers of funds resulting from the retroactive alignment of the salary payments for 2011 and 2013 and from the many it projects implemented do not call into question the discharge.
‒ the european fisheries control agency was established in 2005 to ensure the effective and uniform application of the rules of the common fisheries policy in the member states of the european union. the court of auditors' report for the financial year 2013 found that there were no irregularities in the accounts of the european fisheries control agency. the commission has also received a request from the european parliament and the council to amend the draft budget for the european fisheries control agency for the financial year 2013 in order to take account of the new budgetary procedure.
‒ the european fisheries control agency was established in 2005 as a key element to improve compliance with the rules of the common fisheries policy. it improves consistent and effective implementation by bringing together national and eu resources for the control, inspection and surveillance of fishing activities and their coordination. operational coordination, which is a key task of the agency, has helped to overcome implementation gaps caused by differences in the resources and priorities of control systems in the member states. the efca will also provide the commission with the necessary information to enable it to assess the effectiveness of the control strategy. the financial report showed that the final budget of the agency for the financial year 2013 was eur 9216 900 and that the budget implementation rate was 98,64%. the court of auditors found that the agency's work in 2013 was lawful, orderly and regular. i supported the discharge solely because of the agency's importance in the eu fisheries management and its assessment of compliance and economic efficiency in fisheries at sea.
‒ the european fisheries control agency is an independent executive body that cooperates with the european commission, the member states, regional advisory councils and third parties such as regional fisheries organisations. the missions of the said agency are numerous and they include coordinating the surveillance and inspection activities of the member states under the common fisheries policy, contributing to the joint research and development of new control and inspection bodies, organising the implementation of joint national control and inspection resources, etc. the agency is also of particular importance as it plays a major role in bringing member states closer together and ensuring better and more effective fisheries controls at community level through activities such as operational coordination, joint training of inspectors, implementation of coordination and exchange of knowledge and experience. i agree with parliament's decision to discharge the director-general of the european fisheries control agency in respect of the implementation of the agency's budget for the financial year 2013. i personally attach great importance to fisheries policy and welcome the agency's efficiency in carrying out all the tasks it fulfils.
written. ‒ i support the proposal for a decision of the european parliament on the discharge to be given to the executive director of the european fisheries control agency in respect of the implementation of the budget for the financial year 2013. the agency carries out very important tasks related to the monitoring, control and surveillance of fishing activities and has been performing them very effectively since its establishment, and the positive annual report of the court of auditors on the agency for the financial year 2013 further contributes to confirming the good reputation that the agency currently enjoys. i would like to note that within the political objectives of the reformed common fisheries policy, a key role is given to surveillance activities and it will be necessary to increase the availability of the financial and human resources of the agency in the coming years, and by its financial management so far, as the proposal for this decision clearly seeks to confirm, the agency has certainly shown its willingness to deal with these increases.
written. ‒ i support the discharge report on the implementation of the budget of the european fisheries control agency for the financial year 2013, as referred to in the title, as the court of auditors stated in its report on the annual accounts of the european fisheries control agency for the financial year 2013 that it has received reasonable assurance that the agency's annual accounts are reliable and that the underlying transactions are legal and regular in all material respects.
written. ‒ i support the discharge report on the implementation of the budget of the european fisheries control agency for the financial year 2013, as the agency is constantly assessing new opportunities for synergies with other agencies, such as the service level agreement on the sharing of the internal audit service, the coordination of courses and the controls carried out jointly with other agencies. the agency is currently assisting the european maritime safety agency (emsa) in additional networking with the s-testa network, with which it is also cooperating on a joint project involving the anti-piracy surveillance service (marsurv-1). the quality and importance of the tasks carried out by the european fisheries control agency are acknowledged and the efficiency and stability of the agency, as well as the very good results achieved since its establishment, are welcomed. the importance of the agency's role in implementing the common fisheries policy (cfp) and achieving its objectives, in particular with regard to the landing obligation and the requirements for monitoring, control and surveillance of fishing activities, is underlined. the agency is working successfully to improve its procedures.
written. ‒ i voted yes to the discharge report on the implementation of the budget of the european food safety authority (efsa) for the financial year 2013 as it allows the agency to continue its work, whose rate of carry-overs in 2013 remained within the limits of the financial rules. it is also necessary to take into account comments on unresolved deficiencies in the agency's implementing rules, to review the rules on conflicts of interest, as highlighted by the european ombudsman, and to strengthen and improve the principle of transparency. the comments made are not, however, of a nature to call into question the granting of the exemption.
‒ the european food safety authority is an independent union body that aims to identify and inform about food-related risks, while also acting as an adviser and promoter of new regulations. in this year of the european year of development, one of the main debates is about the strategy for appropriate, healthy, sustainable and informed food consumption, and the agency has a key role to play in this debate. the agency is fully financed by the union budget and had at its disposal eur 78 million in 2013. on the basis of the final annual accounts of the european food safety authority for the financial year 2013, the court of auditors delivered a favourable opinion. i supported this report, noting that it remains concerned about the failure to address the main shortcomings in the implementing rules and internal procedures that jeopardise the taking of sound decisions and create a risk of conflicts of interest. i trust these deficiencies will be remedied as soon as possible.
‒ the european food safety authority was established as part of a comprehensive programme to improve food safety, ensure consumer protection and restore and maintain confidence in the food supply in the eu. it shall provide independent and scientifically based advice on all matters directly or indirectly related to food safety. the mandate of efsa covers food and feed safety, nutrition, animal health and welfare and plant protection and health. the agency shall report on risks in an open and transparent manner. in view of the importance of the agency's mandate and the high rate of implementation of the budget (98,08%), i supported this discharge.
written. ‒ the european food safety authority is an independent body with broad powers enabling it to monitor all stages of food production - from primary production, via animal feed safety, to the supply to the consumer. it also cooperates directly with the public, informing them of the issues it deals with. it is important to note that the agency may also initiate a risk assessment on its own initiative in relation to the current state of food safety and thus warn of possible hazards at the earliest stage. the agency also provides scientific advice on genetically modified food (gmos) and their impact on food safety. i agree with the european parliament in granting the executive director of the european food safety authority discharge in respect of the implementation of the agency's budget for the financial year 2013. in times of changes in legislation related to the authorisation of gmos, as well as negotiations on international trade agreements with partners whose legislation on gmos differs significantly, the work of this agency is of unquestioned importance and i hope that it will carry out its tasks within its competence with the primary objective of protecting the will and interests of citizens.
written. ‒ i support the proposal for a decision of the european parliament on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european food safety authority (efsa) for the financial year 2013. despite the observations made by the court of auditors regarding the internal control system and the need for sufficient information on planned public procurement and grants in the agency's annual work programmes in order to monitor public procurement and grants more effectively, its efforts to date to take account of previous observations and to put in place corrective measures, i believe that this proposal deserves to be accepted by our members. it is important to continue to encourage the agency in its further efforts to establish long-term and sustainable measures to establish internal mechanisms and enhanced content review and greater availability of information and documents on the agency's websites and to further strengthen the policy on prevention and handling of conflicts of interest in order to protect independence and transparency in all areas of the agency's work.
written. ‒ i support this discharge report on the implementation of the budget of the european food safety authority (efsa) for the financial year 2013. i welcome the statement by the court of auditors in its 2013 annual report on the accounts of efsa that it has obtained reasonable assurance that the annual accounts are reliable and that the underlying transactions have been carried out in a lawful and regular manner. the agency's internal audit function has been established in accordance with the internal audit standards of the european union, and the internal audit function has been established in accordance with the internal audit standards of the european union. in addition, i would like to encourage efsa to take corrective action on two observations of the court of auditors for 2013, which focus on the internal control system and the need to include sufficient information on planned public procurement and grants in the agency's annual work programmes in order to monitor procurement and grants as effectively as possible. i also strongly encourage the agency to continue to give special importance to public opinion and thus guarantee greater openness to citizens and transparency.
written. ‒i voted in favour of the discharge report on the implementation of the budget of the european food safety authority for the financial year 2013, as the monitoring of the implementation of the budget and the overall level of carry-overs continues to be improved in order to keep the carry-overs in line with the implementation targets set for the operational activities. the agency has optimised its website to be more user-friendly and to facilitate information on important aspects of scientific work, such as expertise, data collection, risk assessment methodology, risk assessment opinions and how they might impact union citizens, through rapid access to scientific advice, the media and the latest news. i congratulate the agency for adopting the reproducibility of its scientific opinions as a policy objective under its transparency initiative. the representative actions taken by the agency in terms of cost-effective, environmentally friendly solutions for its premises are welcomed. the agency's efforts to implement corrective actions following the previous observations of the court of auditors, and in particular the implementation of the comprehensive self-assessment of its internal control system that started in 2012 and is still ongoing, are welcomed.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the discharge report on the implementation of the budget of the european institute for gender equality for the financial year 2013, as that year saw serious efforts and progress in budget monitoring, improvements in public procurement and recruitment procedures and the amount of appropriations carried over was in line with the one-year principle. the comments made on the institute's work, such as those on better coordination with the european parliament's committee on women's rights and gender equality, are not decisive for the discharge. the primary role that the institute must continue to promote and strengthen is effective and genuine equality between women and men in all spheres of public and private life.
‒ equality between women and men is one of the fundamental principles of the european union. the idea of a european institute for gender equality was born in line with the social policy objectives of nice 2000, but the institute only started to work in 2010. the commission shall be assisted by the european parliament and the council. the court of auditors confirmed in its report the reliability of the accounts of the european institute for gender equality for the financial year 2013. the final budget of the institute for 2013 was eur 10 million, an increase of almost 30% compared to 2012. i support the report on the closure of the institute's books, which has an important role in data collection and research and in the development of key union policies, in particular those related to violence against women and women's employment rights.
‒ the european institute for gender equality was established with the aim of promoting gender equality, including gender equality in all union and national policies resulting from them, combating discrimination on grounds of sex and raising the level of gender equality awareness of union citizens. its mission is to become the european centre of knowledge on gender equality issues. the institute's fundamental role is to promote and guarantee real and effective equality between women and men in all spheres of public and private life. the final budget of the institute for gender equality for 2013 was eur 10 024 535, an increase of 29,49% compared to 2012. as a member of the committee on women's rights and gender equality, i voted to approve the discharge for the implementation of the institute's budget for the financial year 2013. gender equality is a permanent task facing all actors of political and social life equally. although research shows that the gender gap has narrowed in recent years, it is still evident that women are paid less for the same work, are more difficult to advance and less likely to reach decision-making positions, and that more needs to be done to reduce the marginalisation of women in all areas of their lives.
written. ‒ the european institute for gender equality is a union agency that supports the european union and its member states in promoting gender equality and combating gender discrimination. raising awareness of gender equality issues is an important job, and that is why i am pleased that the court of auditors has confirmed the credibility, legality and regularity of the financial statements. i particularly welcome the fact that the overall level of commitment appropriations in 2013 was 99%, indicating that the commitments were being implemented in a timely manner. i also note the court of auditors' observation on the reduction of the carry-over of commitment appropriations from 32% in 2012 to 29% in 2013. for all of the above, i support the discharge of eige for the 2013 financial year.
written. ‒ having regard to the court of auditors' confirmation, the internal audit findings and the opinion of the competent parliamentary committee on women's rights and gender equality, i support the proposal for a european parliament decision on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european institute for gender equality for the financial year 2013. i consider it important to note that the institute has the task of promoting gender equality, including gender awareness in all union and national policies resulting from them, combating discrimination on grounds of sex and raising the level of awareness of eu citizens on gender equality, and that this task must be supported by the european parliament in every possible way within its powers and capabilities. the institute has, through its legal and regular conduct, confirmed its reputation for promoting real and effective equality between women and men in all spheres of public and private life.
written. ‒ i support this discharge report on the implementation of the budget of the european institute for gender equality for the financial year 2013, as the court of auditors has confirmed in its annual report that the institute's accounting records present its financial position as at 31 december 2013 in all material respects and that the institute's operations and cash flows for that year are in accordance with the provisions of its financial regulation. the role of the institute is fundamental and must guarantee real and effective equality between women and men in all spheres of public and private life. the institute was established with the aim of promoting gender equality, including gender awareness, in all european union policies and also in the national policies arising from it. the commission shall be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 264 concerning the establishment of a european network of national experts in the field of gender equality.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the discharge report on the implementation of the budget of the european institute for gender equality for the financial year 2013, primarily because of the institute's objective and role. it was established with the aim of promoting gender equality, including gender mainstreaming in all union and national policies resulting from them, combating discrimination on grounds of sex and raising the level of gender equality awareness of union citizens. the institute's annual work programme states that its mission is to become the european centre of expertise on gender equality issues. the fundamental role of the institute is to promote and guarantee effective and genuine equality between women and men in all spheres of public and private life, and the importance of the role of the institute is to collect reliable, gender-disaggregated comparative data which are essential for the development of national and union policies, in particular those on gender-based violence. according to the financial statements, the final budget of the european institute for gender equality for the financial year 2013 was increased by 29,49% compared to 2012. the institute has established a monitoring mechanism to monitor the expected dates for each phase of the annual procurement procedure in order to improve procurement, planning and monitoring.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the discharge report on the implementation of the budget of the european insurance and occupational pensions authority for the financial year 2013, as it allows the authority to continue the changes and processes started. it is important that in 2013 there were no objections to public procurement procedures. the commission notes that the commission has not provided any information on the amount of the aid granted to the beneficiary.
written. ‒ eu-lisa was established to monitor the implementation of union policies on asylum, migration and border management. its task is also to help member states use technology to create a safer europe. the commission shall be assisted by the european parliament and the council. the european parliament has found the final annual accounts of the agency to be reliable on the basis of a decision of the court of auditors and has approved the closure of the accounts for the financial year 2013. the final budget of the european agency for the operational management of large-scale it systems in the area of freedom, security and justice was eur 61,3 million and was fully financed from the union budget. i supported the report which highlights the concern about the lack of reliable and complete information on the total cost of developing the security systems managed by the agency, namely schengen, the visa information charter and eurodac. the agency is currently based in three cities and should therefore centrise its staff in order to increase efficiency and reduce administrative costs.
‒ eiopa is the european insurance and occupational pensions regulator, the successor to the committee of european insurance and occupational pensions supervisors (ceiops) and is set up as an independent and advisory body of the european parliament, the council of the eu and the european commission. it shall contribute to the stability of the eu financial system by ensuring the integrity, transparency, efficiency and orderly functioning of financial markets and by enhancing the protection of policyholders, beneficiaries and pensioners, and shall act independently, objectively and in the interest of the eu in the performance of its tasks. given that the court of auditors stated that it had received reasonable assurances that the agency's annual accounts for the financial year 2013 were reliable and that the main transactions were legal and regular, i supported this discharge.
written. ‒ the purpose of occupational pension insurance is to provide additional protection against the risks characteristic of certain occupations and to provide additional protection for certain groups of self-employed workers. the commission shall be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 264 concerning the conditions for the participation of undertakings in the award of contracts. the supervision of these pensions is of the utmost importance and i am therefore pleased that the court of auditors has not found significant irregularities in the work of the european supervisory authority and i welcome the fact that the european insurance and occupational pensions authority has adopted measures and rules on the management of conflicts of interest for the staff of the agency and the contracting parties, and in particular the members of the supervisory and management committees.
written. ‒ as the european parliament played a key role in the establishment of a new and comprehensive european financial supervisory system in the aftermath of the economic crisis and as it has, within that system, given the impetus to the establishment of the european insurance and occupational pensions authority, i would also like to support this proposal for a european parliament decision on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european insurance and occupational pensions authority for the financial year 2013. the opinion of the european court of auditors has confirmed the legality and regularity of the financial behaviour of this body, which is still in the initial phase of its work, and i believe that this decision, together with the observations made by the court of auditors and the parliamentary committee on economic and monetary policy, will help the authority to make even more effective and full use of the powers conferred on it.
written. ‒ i support the above discharge report on the implementation of the budget of the european insurance and occupational pensions authority for the financial year 2013, taking into account the court of auditors' report which sets out the regular final annual accounts of the said european insurance and occupational pensions authority. i am pleased to welcome this report and to see that it is a testament to the quality of the work and operation of the european insurance and occupational pensions authority, given that it is the european parliament that has been the main driver of the efforts to establish a new and comprehensive european financial supervision system in the aftermath of the economic crisis, and that the european insurance and occupational pensions authority will be established in 2011 within that system. i understand that the authority is still in its early stages of work, but i stress the need for an appropriate level of staff and resources to enable high quality supervision. i agree with the proposal of the committee on economic and monetary affairs which suggests that the european insurance and occupational pensions authority should make full use of its consumer protection powers conferred on it by the existing mandate.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the discharge report on the implementation of the budget of the european insurance and occupational pensions authority for the financial year 2013, as the role of the european insurance and occupational pensions authority in promoting a common supervisory regime across the single market is key to creating a more connected, efficient and secure insurance and pension sector in the union. this contributes to economic recovery and job creation and growth in europe and to preventing future financial sector crises. the european parliament was the main driver behind the efforts to establish a new and comprehensive european financial supervisory system in the post-crisis period, and in 2011 the european insurance and occupational pensions authority was established within that system. the commission notes that the european supervisory authorities have rapidly established successful organisations, despite facing increasing demands with limited human resources, according to a recent report.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the discharge report on the implementation of the budget of the european institute of innovation and technology for the financial year 2013, postponing the discharge to the institute due to the observation of the legality and regularity of the transactions and the deficiencies detected in the performance of the internal audit. i therefore support the recommendations and comments made by the rapporteur in his report.
‒ established in 2008, the european institute of innovation and technology aims to promote innovation, sustainable growth and increase the competitiveness of the european union. the institute has centres in several locations where teams of experts from different fields work on projects and carry out educational and financial programmes. it plays a major role in the horizon 2020 strategy to address societal challenges by combining research, innovation and education. the final budget of the institute for the financial year 2013 was eur 142 million in commitment appropriations and eur 98,7 million in payments. taking into account all the accounting records, the court of auditors has not been able to gather sufficient appropriate audit evidence on the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions and the report concludes that the closure of the books of the european institute of innovation and technology for the financial year 2013 is postponed. i support the report and the concern that for the second year in a row the court cannot guarantee the legality and regularity of the transactions of the institute related to grants, whose 2013 budget was financed by the union with eur 93,4 million, an increase of as much as 36% compared to the previous year.
‒ the european institute of innovation and technology (eit) was established in 2008 on the initiative of the european commission as an autonomous eu body to promote world-class innovation, sustainable growth and enhance eu competitiveness through the integration of the european innovation area. the eit shall develop master's and doctoral programmes in cooperation with the scientific community and innovators and their partners. it aims to create its own label of excellence among european higher education institutions that will mark the eit colleges as outstanding for their quality and innovative outcomes. the eit aims to create the right conditions for the development of entrepreneurship by fostering a new way of thinking about entrepreneurship and risk-taking by supporting entrepreneurship through activities such as the eit entrepreneur roundtable and the eit awards. the financial report showed that the implementation rate of the implementation budget was 96,97%. the final budget of the institute for the financial year 2013 is eur 142.197.740, representing an increase of 47,05% compared to 2012. the total union contribution to the office's budget for 2013 amounts to eur 93.462.181, representing an increase of 36,05% compared to 2012. i supported the resolution for the european institute of innovation and technology because of their sound financial operations.
written. ‒ the principle of transparency must be an absolute priority when it comes to the operation of public institutions financed by citizens' money. the commission notes that the court of auditors has not provided any evidence that the financial year 2012 was a good year for the implementation of the budget. i am also concerned that, despite the institute's continued efforts to carry out ex ante audits and to provide better guidance to independent audit firms, the court of auditors assessed their quality as insufficient and noted that there was still room for further improvement in their day-to-day work. the commission has also received comments from the institute on the measures taken by the institute to address the issue of the lack of transparency of the discharge authority.
written. ‒ i support the proposal for a decision of the european parliament on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european institute of innovation and technology for the financial year 2013. the commission also noted that the institute's financial statements were not available for the period from 1 january 2014 to 31 december 2015. the institute's work is clearly in a position to make further progress and i believe that the suggestion to the institute in the opinion of the court of auditors to address this issue and to inform the discharge authority of the measures taken by 1 september 2015 will bring the expected progress.
written. ‒ i support this discharge report on the implementation of the budget of the european institute of innovation and technology for the financial year 2013, as the court of auditors has confirmed in its annual report that the institute's accounting records show its financial position as at 31 december 2013 in all material respects. i welcome the fact that the institute has taken certain corrective actions in relation to the observations in the court of auditors' 2011 and 2012 reports and also the increased efforts of the institute of innovation and technology in budgetary control during the financial year 2013, resulting in a budget implementation rate of 96,97%. i am pleased that the institute has committed itself to monitoring ex ante checks which will certainly further ensure the legality and regularity of transactions relating to grants.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the discharge report on the implementation of the budget of the european institute of innovation and technology for the financial year 2013, as, according to its financial statements, the final budget of the european institute of innovation and technology (institut) for the financial year 2013 was increased by 47,05% compared to 2012, while, according to its financial statements, the total union contribution to the budget of the institute for 2013 was increased by 36,05% compared to 2012. the institute provided improved guidance to the certifying auditors and informed the knowledge and innovation communities (kics), the beneficiaries of the institute's grants, of the updated guidance in june 2013. the commission notes that the cips have been granted a number of concessions in the past, including the cips in the form of a grant of eur [100] million. the commission also found that the financial situation of the sampled exporting producers was not affected by the imposition of measures.
written. ‒ i voted yes to the discharge report on the implementation of the budget of the european medicines agency for the financial year 2013 as it allows the continuation of the work of the agency which has shown that it follows the principle of annuity and executes its budget on time. however, additional measures are needed to ensure transparency and clarity in recruitment and in other processes. the importance of the promotion of public and animal health pursued by the agency must be consistent with financial and budgetary management in order to ensure that the impact of its work is significant and effective.
written. ‒ our health is increasingly threatened and diseases are becoming more common because of the way we live today. the pharmaceutical industry is strong, and new drugs are being discovered every day that are important to test and control. the main purpose of the european medicines agency is to protect and promote human and animal health through the control of medicinal products for medical and veterinary purposes. the court of auditors confirmed the reliability of the accounts of the european medicines agency and the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions. the final budget of the agency for the financial year 2013 was eur 251 million, of which the union contributed eur 40,9 million. i supported the discharge of the european parliament on the closure of the agency's books for 2013. in order to ensure the consistent application of this regulation, the agency should be able to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 290 tfeu concerning the establishment of a european agency for the evaluation of medicinal products for human use. the european parliament welcomes the adoption of the internal control standards for the purpose of consistency across all the activities of the agency.
written. ‒ the main task of the european medicines agency is to protect and promote human and animal health through the supervision of medicines used for medical and veterinary purposes. one of the most important activities is the post-authorisation surveillance of medicinal products, in order to receive safety reports from the union and beyond, and to coordinate actions contributing to the quality and safety of medicinal products. the agency shall also examine certificates for medical devices as part of the guidelines issued by the world health organisation. the second activity is the inspection supervision of clinical practice, laboratory work, production and certification of medical devices, and the quality control and handling of defects in these products. the financial report showed that the budget execution rate of the agency was 96,76% and that the funds paid were 83,49%. i supported the discharge precisely because of the need for the work of the agency for the safety and quality of medicines primarily for human and animal health.
‒ the european medicines agency has a monitoring role and is responsible for the scientific evaluation of medicines developed by european and global pharmaceutical companies and sold in the european union. without the agency's authorization, companies are not allowed to enter the european market. in order to ensure the safety and health of union citizens, it is important that the agency has the most transparent funding and recruitment. i would welcome the initiative of the agency to hold public workshops on conflicts of interest and i suggest similar initiatives to other agencies to define the balance between impartiality and expertise of the agency staff.
written. ‒ i support the proposal for a decision of the european parliament to grant a discharge to the executive director in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european medicines agency for the financial year 2013. the role of the agency in protecting and promoting public and animal health through the evaluation and supervision of medicinal products for human and veterinary use is unquestionable, and its clear policy on conflict of interest as of march 2012 puts the agency on an excellent path towards ensuring maximum independence and transparency in all its areas of work. as the opinions of the european court of auditors and the competent committee on the environment, public health and food safety have confirmed the legality and regularity of the financial management in all material respects, i trust that the adoption of this decision will be a confirmation of the sound management and operation of the agency.
written. ‒ i support this discharge report on the implementation of the budget of the european medicines agency for the financial year 2013, as the court of auditors stated in its report on the annual accounts of the european medicines agency for the financial year 2013 (the 'court of auditors' report') that it has obtained reasonable assurance that the agency's annual accounts are reliable and that the underlying transactions are legal and regular. the court of auditors also noted that the commission had not yet received any comments from the european parliament or the council on the drafting of the annual accounts of the european union for the financial year 2012, and that the commission had not yet received any comments from the european parliament or the council on the drafting of the annual accounts of the european union for the financial year 2013. it is also commendable that 583 of the 611 posts were filled by the end of 2013 and that the agency employed 144 contract staff. the work of that agency is indeed of the utmost importance precisely for the protection and promotion of public and animal health through the evaluation and supervision of medicinal products for human and veterinary use, and i am pleased to support this discharge report on the same.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the discharge report on the implementation of the budget of the european medicines agency for the financial year 2013, as the agency coordinates the scientific resources made available by the national authorities to guarantee the verification and supervision of medicinal products used for the treatment of animals and humans. the agency's important role is to protect and promote public and animal health through the evaluation and supervision of medicinal products for human and veterinary use. in order to improve communication with union citizens, the agency has recently undertaken several initiatives, notably the development of it communication tools such as the 'public health communication' which provides the public with key information on medicinal products, in particular on their safety. the appropriations in the initial budget of the european medicines agency for 2013 have been increased by 4,08% compared to the initial budget for 2012. the commission shall be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 264 concerning the establishment of a european data protection supervisor. the corresponding expenditure has been allocated to the ongoing project to equip the new headquarters of the agency.
written. ‒ i voted yes to the discharge report on the implementation of the budget of the european monitoring centre for drugs and drug addiction for the financial year 2013, as the budget and financial management has been efficient with a high rate of implementation, thus allowing the centre to continue its work without disruption. the comments concerning the deficiency regarding the objection of legality and regularity of transactions in the framework of the public procurement procedure for the rental of office equipment do not diminish the need to grant discharge to the european monitoring centre for drugs and drug addiction for 2013.
‒ the role of the european monitoring centre for drugs and drug addiction is to collect and analyse information and to provide objective and reliable information to the public concerned. the centre has a role in the creation of drug control policies and strategies. taking into account the court of auditors' decision on the reliability of the centre's accounts, the european parliament gives its consent to the closure of the accounts for the financial year 2013. the final budget of the centre was eur 16,3 million, with a union contribution of eur 15,5 million. i supported the closure of the books for the 2013 financial year of the european centre for drugs and drug addiction. the negative comments in the resolution accompanying the decision related to public procurement. parliament welcomes the improvement in the efficiency of the payment procedure, the regulation of the policy in case of conflict of interest in line with the commission's guidelines and the correction of internal audit irregularities.
written. ‒ the problem of drug abuse, its negative impact on society and the individual, especially when it comes to young people, is a problem faced by all eu member states. i am concerned about the increase in drug abuse and drugs have become a pervasive problem, and its victims are among us. the drug trade is one of the most profitable "businesses", making more money than the arms trade and the oil trade. this is why it is important to have all the relevant data and to work on the prevention and control of drug abuse. the main task of the european monitoring centre for drugs and drug addiction is to improve the comparability of drug information in the eu. to achieve this, the emcdda is coordinating and developing the reitox network, which currently connects 31 national drug monitoring centres, which collect and analyse national data according to common european data collection and processing standards. the results of the national drug monitoring processes are transmitted to the lisbon centre for analysis and published in the annual report on the state of drugs in europe. the centre is important because it provides a base for experts and scientists to work and has become a major hub for drug data collection. the financial report showed that the budget execution rate was 97,71% and i therefore supported this discharge.
‒ the european monitoring centre for drugs and drug addiction is an information agency that collects and processes reliable, objective and comparable data on the phenomenon of drugs and drug addiction in europe. it is the european union's central information point on drugs. to this end, the centre cooperates with non-eu countries as well as with international organisations dealing with the field, such as europol, interpol, the un drug control programme (undcp), the world health organisation (who) and the world customs organisation (wco). the main objective of the centre is to improve the comparability of drug data at european level and to develop methods and tools to achieve this. in view of the exceptional importance of the work of this centre, as well as the regular expenditure of the funds at its disposal, i support the discharge by the european parliament to the director of the european monitoring centre for drugs and drug addiction in respect of the implementation of the centre's budget for the financial year 2013.
written. ‒ having regard to the court of auditors' findings in which it states that the annual accounts of the european monitoring centre for drugs and drug addiction (emcdda) present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of the centre as at 31 december 2013, as well as its results of operations and cash flows for the financial year ended on that date, and that the underlying transactions presented in the accounts of the centre for the financial year 2013 are legal and regular in all material respects, and having regard to the opinion of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs, as the committee responsible for giving its opinion, i support the discharge decision on the discharge to be given to the budget of the european monitoring centre for drugs and drug addiction for the financial year 2013. i also believe that the adoption of the decision will give the centre a further incentive to invest in further improving public procurement procedures, especially when it comes to transparency and equal treatment of different tenderers as some of the observations made by the court of auditors in its opinion.
written. ‒ i support this discharge report on the implementation of the budget of the european monitoring centre for drugs and drug addiction for the financial year 2013, taking into account that the court of auditors, in its report on the annual accounts of the european monitoring centre for drugs and drug addiction for the financial year 2013 (the 'court of auditors' report'), stated that it has obtained reasonable assurance that the agency's annual accounts are reliable and that the underlying transactions are legal and regular. i also agree with the opinion of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs and the court of auditors that improvements are needed in the area of the legality and regularity of transactions as well as in public procurement procedures to make them as transparent as possible and to ensure equal treatment of all tenderers. although the opinion of the court of auditors on the accounting documentation is positive and i therefore support the discharge for the 2013 budget, it would be worth mentioning the concern about the unused office space in the former headquarters of the said centre and to encourage it to resolve this problem for its own benefit and ultimately for the benefit of the union budget.
written. ‒ i have supported the discharge report on the implementation of the budget of the european monitoring centre for drugs and drug addiction for the financial year 2013. the centre has implemented multiple procedures and measures to ensure appropriate ex ante and ex post checks and appropriate controls of costs associated with the allocated funds to support cooperation within the reitox network. the measures include 'detailed ex ante controls, written instructions to the national contact points within the reitox network, specific briefings on important issues, an annual analysis of the financial reports of each national contact point and ex post field checks'. the centre has improved the efficiency of its payment procedures, and it is particularly noteworthy that payments are successfully made in an average of 16 days. according to the court's conclusions, the annual accounting records of the european monitoring centre for drugs and drug addiction (emcdda) present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position as well as the results of its operations and cash flows for the financial year. the underlying transactions are presented in the centre's accounting records for the financial year 2013 as legal and regular in all material respects.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the discharge report on the implementation of the budget of the european maritime safety agency for the financial year 2013 because the budgetary control efforts are visible and concrete. furthermore, it was found that there were no objections with regard to the public procurement and recruitment procedures and the nature and level of the transferred funds remained within the limits of the financial rules established. however, the principle of transparency in the work of the agency needs to be further improved, which in any case does not prejudice the need for discharge.
written. ‒ the importance of safety at sea can be seen from several perspectives - pollution, wildlife and hunting, but also in the light of the fact that maritime transport is one of the deadliest professions, with 24 000 lives lost each year. the european maritime safety agency shall provide technical support to the union and the member states in the development and implementation of legislation governing maritime safety, pollution from ships and maritime safety. the european parliament has adopted a decision discharging the agency's budget in accordance with the court of auditors' report. the court concluded that the accounting records are reliable and that the underlying transactions are legal and regular. the union contribution for the financial year 2013 was eur 53,7 million out of the total budget of the agency of eur 57,8 million. the report welcomes the fact that no major problems have been identified. it also highlights the agency's efforts to combat conflicts of interest, transparency of information and preparation of an action plan to correct recommendations following an internal audit carried out, and i supported the discharge.
‒ the european maritime safety agency (emsa) provides technical assistance and support to the union and the member states in the development and implementation of eu legislation on maritime safety and security and pollution related to shipping. emsa is also competent in the area of oil spill prevention and response, and in the area of long-range surveillance, identification and tracking of ships. emsa carries out technical inspections, provides maritime information services and responds to marine pollution, and is able to send oil-collecting vessels to any eu country threatened by pollution within hours of a major oil spill. according to emsa's financial statements for the financial year 2013, the budget amounted to eur 57 819 864, representing an increase of 4,88% compared to 2012. the court of auditors found in its report that the agency's annual accounts are reliable and that the underlying transactions are legal and regular. the court of auditors' report also shows that corrective actions have been taken in relation to two comments made in the court of auditors' 2011 and 2012 reports, which is certainly commendable. given all the findings and the reports presented, i have endorsed this discharge.
written. ‒ the agency has a key role as the anchor of maritime safety in europe, whose responsibilities have been extended following the adoption of the new agency's basic regulation in february 2013, which is why it is crucial to provide the agency with the financial, material and human resources to enable it to successfully carry out its tasks. i welcome the court of auditors' findings on the regularity of the financial statements of the european maritime safety agency for the financial year 2013 and the fact that the agency's annual budget for 2013 was eur 57,8 million for commitment appropriations and eur 54,03 million for payment appropriations and that the execution rates were 98% and 95% respectively. i also welcome the fact that the agency has developed guidelines for the management of conflicts of interest and has started to organise mandatory training on ethical and fair behaviour for all staff, which is why i support the recommendation that the european parliament give a discharge to the executive director of the european maritime safety agency in respect of the implementation of its budget for the financial year 2013.
written. ‒ i support the proposal for a decision of the european parliament on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european maritime safety agency for the financial year 2013. the commission notes that the agency's annual accounts for the financial year 2013 were audited by the court of auditors and that the court of auditors did not make any further observations on the agency's financial management for 2013, and that the internal audit revealed that the agency had demonstrated its readiness to accept constructive criticism by drawing up guidelines on conflict of interest and organising training on ethical and fair conduct for its staff. however, it is useful to note that the court of auditors reminded the agency to continue to improve the reliability of accounting procedures and information related to the costs of intangible assets incurred within the agency, which gives additional room for improvement in its operations in the future.
written. ‒ i support this discharge report on the implementation of the budget of the european maritime safety agency for the financial year 2013, taking into account that the court of auditors, in its report on the annual accounts of the european maritime safety agency for the financial year 2013 (the 'court of auditors' report'), stated that it has obtained reasonable assurance that the agency's annual accounts are reliable and that the underlying transactions are legal and regular. i welcome the above-mentioned regularity of financial statements and hereby underline the importance of the european maritime safety agency as a guarantor of maritime safety in europe. in view of the above, the quality and proper functioning of the relevant agency is of great importance and i therefore wish, as i have already said, to support that report.
written. ‒ i supported the discharge for the implementation of the budget of the european maritime safety agency for the financial year 2013. the court of auditors' report shows that corrective actions have been taken in relation to the observations made in previous years in the court of auditors' report and it has been noted that according to the court of auditors' report and the agency's annual activity report, no major problems were observed with regard to the level of carry-overs in 2013 and that the level and nature of carry-overs during 2013 remained within the limits of the agency's financial rules. the budgetary control efforts during the financial year 2013 resulted in a implementation rate of 98,07%, and the payment appropriations execution rate was 88,73%. the commission has also provided information on the number of cases where the commission has not yet adopted a decision on the compatibility of the aid with the internal market.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the discharge report on the implementation of the budget of the european union agency for network and data security for the financial year 2013, as the level of appropriations carried over remained within the limits of the financial rules in 2013 and there were no objections concerning recruitment and public procurement. i support the proposal to reduce administrative costs which could be achieved by bringing together the staff currently based in two locations, athens and heraklion. the commission has not received any comments from interested parties.
‒ the main task of the european union agency for network and data security is to increase the union's capacity to address network and information security-related problems. the european parliament has approved the closure of the accounts of the european union agency for network and data security for the financial year 2013, on the basis of the court of auditors' decision on the reliability of the accounts. the final budget of the agency for the financial year 2013 was eur 9,6 million, almost entirely financed by the union. i supported the report by mr czarnecki, which supports the court's proposal to reduce administrative costs by placing all the agency's staff in one place. the agency remained within the limits of the financial rules as regards the transfer of funds and no other findings of the audit revealed irregularities.
‒ the european union agency for network and data security was established to help the eu institutions, member states and the business community to identify data security problems and find appropriate solutions that will ensure a high level of network and data security. the agency shall also provide technical assistance to the commission in the development and updating of legislation in this area. all topics related to mobile phones, personal and business computers and internet banking are the subject of their processing. the financial report showed that the final budget of the european union agency for network and data security for the financial year 2013 was eur 9 670 185 and that the budget implementation rate was 94,41%. the court of auditors' finding has shown that the agency's annual accounting records are reliable and that the underlying transactions are legal and regular and that the agency's operations are legal, orderly and regular. taking into account the findings of the court of auditors and the observation that the agency should provide an answer to the question of the cost-effectiveness and environmental friendliness of its workspace, i supported the discharge for the implementation of the budget of the european union agency for network and data security for the financial year 2013.
written. ‒ the security of personal data of citizens and institutions of the european union is particularly important in the age of the widespread use of the internet and it is therefore of the utmost importance for the development of democracy and freedom of speech that we do as much as possible to ensure the security of networks and data of citizens and institutions when using their personal data. i welcome the transparency of the agency's work given that information on the impact of its activities on union citizens can be found on the agency's websites thanks to the annual publication of documents including the annual report, as well as new communication channels such as social media.
written. ‒ i support this discharge report on the implementation of the budget of the european union agency for network and data security for the financial year 2013, taking into account that the court of auditors stated in its report on the annual accounts of the european agency for the financial year 2013 that it has obtained reasonable assurance that the agency's annual accounts are reliable and that the underlying transactions are legal and regular.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of discharge for the implementation of the budget of the european union agency for network and data security for the financial year 2013, as its main task is to increase the union's capacity to prevent and respond to network and information security-related problems by relying on the efforts of the member states and the union. the commission has also received a letter from the european parliament and the council, which confirmed that the agency's budget for 2013 was fully implemented. as of 31 december 2013, no key recommendations from past reports of the european commission's internal audit service were left unresolved.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the discharge report on the implementation of the budget of the european railway agency for the financial year 2013, as it allows the agency to continue its work. the commission has not received any comments from interested parties on the draft terms of reference of the discharge. the agency ensured in its work that the nature and level of the funds transferred in 2013 were within the financial rules and made information on its activities effectively available.
the european railway agency contributes to the integration of the european railway systems and develops technical and safety standards in cooperation with the railway sector, the union and other institutions. the parliament's report welcomes the agency's efforts to correct almost all the irregularities of previous years that were detected in the audit process and the availability of information to citizens and other interested institutions. however, the agency does not apply objective criteria, transparency and the principle of equal treatment in its recruitment procedures and has not yet adopted measures to prevent conflicts of interest, and these problems need to be addressed. parliament called for the agency to choose a single seat in order to increase efficiency and reduce administrative costs. i supported the discharge for the 2013 financial year of the european railway agency. the court of auditors concluded that the agency's annual accounting records were reliable and that the transactions were legal and regular. the final budget for the financial year 2013 was eur 25,8 million and was fully financed by the union budget.
‒ the european railway agency was set up with the aim of establishing common technical and operating rules to harmonise the operation of all national railways within the european union. the agency shall also be responsible for designing and proposing a common system for the certification, identification and registration of rolling stock of flexible vehicles and for issuing recommendations on the competence of the staff managing the rolling stock. the financial report showed that the final budget of the european railway agency for the financial year 2013 was eur 25 858 799 and that the budget implementation rate was 97,87%, while the payment appropriations execution rate was 88,12%. the court of auditors' finding has shown that the agency's annual accounting records are reliable and that the underlying transactions are legal and regular. in view of the findings of the court of auditors, and the observation concerning the increase in commitment appropriations carried over to 2014 due to an inaccurate estimate of the 2013 budgetary expenditure, which reminds the agency of its obligation to respect the budgetary principle of one year, i have supported the discharge for the implementation of the budget of the european railway agency for the financial year 2013.
written. ‒ the main task of the european railway agency is to harmonise technical and operating rules between the member states of the union and to coordinate the operation of all national railways within the european union with a view to the interoperability of the trans-european rail network. the commission should be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 290 tfeu concerning the establishment of a european railway agency. i agree that the allocation of resources to the agency will need to be revised as it appears from the agency's annual accounts that the amount of committed appropriations carried over to 2013 was eur 759 356, while the amount of committed appropriations carried over to 2014 was eur 1 462 461. i note that the amount to be charged has been increased compared to the previous year due to overestimates of budgetary expenditure for 2013 and agree that the agency should be reminded of its obligation to respect the budgetary principle of one year.
written. ‒ i support this report taking into account the fact that the final accounting documentation of the european railway agency is in accordance with the annex to the court of auditors' report. i welcome the conclusions of the court of auditors already mentioned and agree with the opinion of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs that the annual accounts of the european railway agency for the financial year 2013 present a true and fair view of the financial position of the agency in all its aspects. it is important to note that the role of the agency (e.g. one location for issuing vehicle safety authorisations and decisions) and its powers are currently being reviewed under the fourth railway package and that if the agency's powers are increased, it will be necessary to provide the necessary financial, material and human resources to carry out the new duties comprehensively and effectively. i agree with the proposal of the committee on transport and tourism that if there is an extension of the agency's duties, part of the funding should come from the fees and charges paid by the railway industry and which should certainly be appropriate to the level of the agency's costs.
written. ‒ i supported the discharge report on the implementation of the budget of the european railway agency for the financial year 2013, as according to the accounting documentation of the european railway agency (the 'agency') for the financial year 2013, its final budget was increased by 0,23% compared to 2012 and it is known that the entire budget of the agency comes from the union budget. the agency's role is to ensure the safety and interoperability of the european rail system. the agency should be able to provide the necessary financial, material and human resources to the agency in the event of an increase in its powers, in order to carry out its new and additional duties in a comprehensive and effective manner. in the event that the agency takes on new powers due to the extension of its duties as a certification body for railway material, part of the agency's resources should be met from fees and charges paid by the railway industry, which should in any event be appropriate to the level of the agency's costs and should not represent a disproportionate cost to the railway industry. i take note of the fact that the agency has decided to implement appropriate measures to ensure the continuity of it services and systems operating in parallel with the work of the agency.
written. ‒ i voted yes to the discharge report on the implementation of the budget of the european securities and capital markets authority for the financial year 2013, as the discharge allows the authority to continue its work without any disruption. the commission notes that the commission has not provided any information on the amount of the aid granted to the beneficiaries. the financial management, procurement and recruitment procedures and transparency, which are of an administrative and/or technical nature, have a direct impact on the effective performance of the authority's work and it is therefore important that they are published correctly and effectively.
‒ the european securities and markets authority is one of the three independent supervisory authorities of the european system of financial supervision. the main task of the authority shall be to contribute to the stability of the financial system of the union by ensuring the integrity, transparency, efficiency and orderly functioning of the financial market. i supported the parliament's decision to close the authority's accounts for the financial year 2013 as concluded by the court of auditors. the court confirmed the reliability of the accounting records and the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions. the final budget was increased by 39% compared to the previous year due to the additional tasks entrusted to the supervisory board and amounted to eur 28,1 million. the commission has also received comments from the united kingdom on the application of the new rules on the transfer of financial assets from the united kingdom to the european union. the commission also notes that the commission has not provided any information on the amount of the loan to the bank.
‒ the european securities and markets authority is an independent body of the european union and part of the european system of financial supervisors (esfs), and does not take instructions from any other body, institution or body. esma shall aim to contribute to the stability of the financial system in the union by ensuring the integrity, transparency, efficiency and orderly functioning of financial markets and by enhancing investor protection. the financial report showed that the final budget of the european securities and markets authority was eur 28 188 749, an increase of 39,01% compared to 2012 due to the additional tasks entrusted to the authority, and a budget implementation rate of 93,18%. the court of auditors' finding has shown that esma's annual accounting records are reliable and that the underlying transactions are legal and regular. taking into account the findings of the court of auditors and the observation on the high level of carry-overs and late payments, which account for 27% of the total payments, and calling on the authority to pay attention to the fact that future legal commitments are not made before financial commitments are established, i have supported the discharge for the implementation of the budget of the european securities and capital markets authority for the financial year 2013.
‒ the european securities and markets authority is an independent eu body and part of the european system of financial supervisors. that body aims to contribute to the stability of the financial system of the union by ensuring the integrity, transparency, efficiency and orderly functioning of financial markets and by enhancing investor protection. the european parliament has decided to grant the executive director of the european securities and capital markets authority discharge in respect of the implementation of the authority's budget for the financial year 2013, and i support that decision. the total union contribution to the authority's budget for the financial year 2013 was eur 28 188 749, representing an increase of 39,01% compared to 2012 due to the additional tasks entrusted to it. i agree with my colleague sarvam that the authority's role in promoting the stability and security of financial markets and the stability of the financial system and in enabling safe operations in the european securities market is crucial to achieving economic recovery and creating sustainable jobs and growth in europe.
written. ‒ i support the discharge report on the implementation of the budget of the european securities and markets authority for the financial year 2013, as the court of auditors stated in its report on the annual accounts of the said agency for the financial year 2013 (the 'court of auditors' report') that it has obtained reasonable assurance that the agency's annual accounts are reliable and that the underlying transactions are legal and regular. i agree with the european commission's finding in a recent report that despite difficult circumstances, european supervisory authorities have quickly established organisations that function successfully and generally perform well in their diverse tasks, even though they face increasing demands and limited human resources. the european parliament has been one of the main drivers in the efforts to establish a new and comprehensive european financial supervisory system in the post-financial crisis period, and i am honoured to endorse this report which refers to the sound and orderly financial management of that body despite the fact that the european financial supervisory system is still in the process of being established.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the discharge report on the implementation of the budget of the european securities and capital markets authority for the financial year 2013. the budget of the european securities and markets authority for the financial year 2013 was eur 28 188 749, representing an increase of 39,01% compared to 2012 due to the additional tasks entrusted to it. the authority has included staff and budget planning in its annual work plan to take account of the priorities at the level of the entire organisation and, where appropriate, has entrusted employees with the performance of various tasks. the authority has also provided a number of additional information to the authority's staff, including the following: the authority further strengthened its ethical guidelines by developing a policy to prevent conflicts of interest for persons who are not members of the authority's staff. the european parliament was the main driver in the efforts to establish a new and comprehensive european system of financial supervision in the aftermath of the financial crisis, and the european supervisory authority has been and is successfully doing its job despite the lack of human resources.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the discharge report on the implementation of the budget of the european training foundation for the financial year 2013, as serious positive steps were noted in the budgetary control and no problems were identified with regard to public procurement and recruitment procedures, and new guidelines for the prevention of conflicts of interest were launched. moreover, there were no objections with regard to the commitments and transfers for 2013 and a successful transparent communication with citizens was established. the granting of the discharge will certainly contribute to the further advancement of the foundation's work.
written. ‒ a hot topic in all member states is the high level of unemployment. along with the economic crisis that has caused job losses, the skills of the workforce are a major problem. the european training foundation is a key instrument for the development of the european vocational training system. the main task of the foundation is to cooperate in the development of education and training systems. the discharge of mr czarneckog confirms that the final annual accounts of the european training foundation are reliable as concluded by the court of auditors and approves the closure of the accounts for the financial year 2013. the foundation's budget was fully financed by the union budget and amounted to eur 20,1 million. i supported the report that welcomes the foundation's budgetary oversight efforts and its 99.78 percent execution rate. the court of auditors has no objections to commitments and transfers or other transactions as a result of good budgetary planning. with the aim of reducing unemployment and training the workforce in line with labour market needs, i commend the work of the foundation, its communication activities with citizens and its continuous contribution to the development of human capital and the reform of vocational training and advanced training.
‒ the european training foundation is an agency of the european union that assists developing countries in their transition to exploit their human capital potential through the reform of education, training and employment systems in the context of external relations policy with the eu. the financial report shows that the foundation operated within the budget with a cost reduction of 0,01% and an utilisation rate of 99,78% of the funds allocated, of which 95,72% was paid. as the public is the key target of the foundation's communication activities, it is good that the basic level of information on the foundation's websites is set up in such a way that interested citizens can easily access general information, specific activities and results. the foundation is also an important element of european foreign policy and focuses on helping those in need young people in developing countries and their social inclusion. this is why i support the foundation's work so far and hope that in the future the foundation will help to solve today's key problems improving the quality of life in third countries and reducing the need for risky migration that we face today.
‒ the european training foundation is an eu agency that helps transition and developing countries to unlock the potential of their human capital through education, training and labour market reform in the context of the eu's external relations policy. i support the decision of the european parliament to discharge the director of the european training foundation in respect of the implementation of the foundation's budget for the financial year 2013. the commission shall be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 264 concerning the establishment of the european data protection supervisor. i agree with the rapporteur, mr sarvam, who believes that the foundation's contribution to the promotion of human capital development in partner countries underlines its importance. the foundation's activities also highlight important issues such as youth employment and a renewed focus on vocational education and training, the skills dimension of smes and migration processes.
written. ‒ i supported the discharge report on the implementation of the budget of the european training foundation for the financial year 2013. the budget of the european training foundation for 2013 was eur 20 143 500, a decrease of 0,01%, compared to 2012, and according to the court of auditors' report, all accounting records are reliable and the underlying transactions are legal and regular, there were no objections with regard to commitments and transfers for the financial year 2013 and the budget is well planned. the foundation has adopted and published guidelines for the prevention and management of conflicts of interest and will publish cvs and declarations of financial interests of its staff. the foundation's success is reflected in its 99% achievement of the objectives set out in its four work programmes. the foundation has also made progress in developing evidence-based vocational training and retraining reforms, achieved through the turin process and other specific policy analyses. the committee on employment and social affairs referred several proposals to the committee on budgetary control, welcoming the objective and regular financial results, the progress made in developing the reform of vocational training and retraining, and the foundation's continued contribution to improving human capital development in partner countries.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the discharge report on the implementation of the budget of the european agency for the operational management of large-scale it systems in the area of freedom, security and justice for the financial year 2013, as the annual financial statements of that agency are in all material respects correct, legal and fair and present the agency's financial position. the comments made in relation to improving budgetary management, internal controls, the prevention and handling of conflicts of interest, and the achievement of the negotiation and conclusion of the final seat agreement are the same comments that the agency will need to improve its operations, but do not preclude discharge.
written. ‒ eu-lisa was established to monitor the implementation of union policies on asylum, migration and border management. its task is also to help member states use technology to create a safer europe. the commission shall be assisted by the european parliament and the council. the european parliament has found the final annual accounts of the agency to be reliable on the basis of a decision of the court of auditors and has approved the closure of the accounts for the financial year 2013. the final budget of the european agency for the operational management of large-scale it systems in the area of freedom, security and justice was eur 61,3 million and was fully financed from the union budget. i supported the report, although it expressed concern about the lack of reliable and complete information on the total cost of developing the security systems managed by the agency, namely schengen, the visa information charter and eurodac. the agency is currently based in three cities and should therefore centrise its staff in order to increase efficiency and reduce administrative costs.
the european parliament and the council shall be informed of the progress of the work of the european data protection supervisor and of the progress of the work of the european data protection board. the commission shall be assisted by the european parliament and the council. the commission shall be assisted by the european data protection board, which shall be composed of representatives of the member states and of the commission. the financial report showed that the budget execution rate of the agency was 98,95% and that the payment appropriations execution rate was 28,94%. the reason for the low execution rate can be found in the multiannual contracts that the agency has with service providers. the court of auditors' findings have shown that the agency's work is lawful, orderly and regular. in view of the findings and the importance of the work carried out by the agency, particularly at the present time, i have supported the discharge for the implementation of the budget of the european agency for the operational management of large-scale it systems in the area of freedom, security and justice for the financial year 2013.
written. ‒ i welcome the conclusions of the court of auditors that the annual financial statements of the european agency for the operational management of large-scale it systems in the area of freedom, security and justice (eu-lisa) in all their essential aspects faithfully present the financial position of eu-lisa as at 31 december 2013 and its results of operations and cash flows for the financial year ended on that date and that the underlying transactions presented in the financial statements of eu-lisa for the financial year 2013 are in all their essential aspects legal and regular. the commission shall be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 26 to supplement this regulation by laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this regulation. i am concerned that there is a lack of reliable and complete data on the costs of the overall development of the schengen information system (sis ii), the visa information system (vis) and eurodac, and i therefore join the calls of eu-lisi to pay greater attention to the principle of sound financial management in accordance with the budgetary principle of one year, i.e. the economic, efficient and effective use of appropriations in the implementation of its tasks.
written. ‒ i support this discharge report on the implementation of the budget of the european agency for the operational management of large-scale information systems in the area of freedom, security and justice (eu-lisa) for the financial year 2013, taking into account that the court of auditors, in its report on the annual accounts of that european agency for the financial year 2013 (the 'court of auditors' report'), stated that it has obtained reasonable assurance that the agency's annual accounts are reliable and that the underlying transactions are legal and regular. the commission shall be assisted by the european data protection supervisor, who shall be responsible for the management of the agency's budget. it was not possible to carry out a further analysis of the individual headings for the financial year 2013, which was in any event justified by the above facts, and i therefore decided to support the proposal for discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of eu-lisa for the financial year 2013.
written. ‒ i have endorsed the discharge report on the implementation of the budget of the european agency for the operational management of large-scale it systems in the area of freedom, security and justice for the financial year 2013. the agency was established with the aim of performing tasks relating to the operational management of the second generation schengen information system (sis ii), the visa information system (vis) and the eurodac system. the court of auditors has found that the agency's financial statements are reliable and that the transactions in question are legal and regular. in accordance with regulation (eu) no 1077/2011, all countries involved in the implementation, application and development of the schengen acquis are to contribute to the budget of the agency. the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs has made several proposals to the committee on budgetary control welcoming the credible results of the agency's operations, stressing the need for improvements in the area of internal controls and budgetary management and the agency's orientation towards a better use of budgetary resources on a one-year basis.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the discharge report on the implementation of the budget of the european agency for safety and health at work for the financial year 2013, as it contributed to the dissemination of information on the priorities of health and safety at work in the european union, where significant progress has been made, in particular in employment and wage-related activities. the comments concerning the increase of the final budget of 4,5% compared to 2012 due to the agency's move to new premises, renewal of annual it contracts, and the projects launched during the year should be taken into account, but they do not diminish the need for discharge.
‒ the european agency for safety and health at work has several areas of activity. it aims to raise awareness and disseminate information on the importance of health and safety at work, develop tools to help entrepreneurs and be a source of information for national and union organisations in policy-making. the report of mr czarnecki on the agency's accounting records highlighted significant improvements in the implementation of the programme and welcomed the achievements of the agency in particular in the area of promoting interactive online tools for smes. the internal audit confirmed that all errors from the previous period had been corrected. the agency is expected to adopt comprehensive policies for the management of conflicts of interest. i supported the closure of the agency's accounts for the financial year 2013. the court of auditors confirmed the reliability of the accounting records and the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions. the european union financed the agency's budget for the financial year with eur 15,6 million, and the final budget was eur 17,6 million.
‒ the european agency for safety and health at work was established in 1994 with the aim of achieving safer, healthier and more productive working conditions in europe. the agency collects and analyses information to contribute to improving the state of occupational safety and health in europe and operates in four areas: surveillance, dissemination of good occupational safety and health practice, research on occupational safety and health, and the agency's systems and programmes. the court of auditors has found that all transactions for the financial year 2013 are legal and regular. the agency's budget amounted to eur 17 682 338, the agency has fulfilled its obligations in a timely manner, which confirms the high budget execution rate (99%) for 2013. the agency has fully implemented the corrective actions identified by the court of auditors in its observations of the past years, which relate mainly to significant improvements in the implementation of the annual work programme, the budget planning in 2013 based on activities and the issues related to employment and salaries. the agency rationalised its expenditure in 2014 and, in view of the above, i supported the discharge for the implementation of the budget of the european agency for safety and health at work for the financial year 2013.
‒ the european agency for safety and health at work operates in four main areas: surveillance, dissemination of good occupational safety practice, research on occupational health and safety, and the agency's systems and programmes. the aim of the agency is to make european workplaces safer, healthier and more productive. the agency also collects and analyses information to help improve the state of occupational safety and health in europe and cooperates with a number of organisations. i agree with the decision of the european parliament to discharge the director of the european agency for safety and health at work in respect of the implementation of the agency's budget for the financial year 2013. the budget for the financial year 2013 was eur 15 614 775, a decrease of 3,77 % compared to 2012. i welcome the agency's continued contribution to promoting high standards of occupational safety and health in the union and to providing information on the impact of its activities on union citizens, which is available on the agency's website in the form of published general evaluations of the agency, annual reports, annual reports of the director of operations as well as analysis and evaluation of the operational reports carried out by the management board.
the commission has also proposed that the court of justice should: ‒ i support this discharge report on the implementation of the budget of the european agency for safety and health at work for the financial year 2013, as the court of auditors stated in its report on the annual accounts of the agency for the financial year 2013 (the 'court of auditors' report') that it has obtained reasonable assurance that the agency's annual accounts are reliable and that the underlying transactions are legal and regular. the court of auditors also noted that the commission had not yet received any comments from the complainant on the 2012 annual report, and that the commission had not yet received any comments from the complainant on the 2012 annual report. the facts presented in the report show that significant improvements have been made in particular in the implementation of the annual work programme, the activity-based budget planning for 2013 and employment and pay issues.
written. ‒ given that the agency's task is to collect and disseminate information on national and union priorities in the field of occupational health and safety, to provide support to national and union organisations involved in the adoption and implementation of relevant policies and to provide information on preventive measures, i supported the discharge for the implementation of the budget of the european agency for safety and health at work for the financial year 2013. the agency's achievements in the period 2009-2013 in fully implementing the corrective actions identified by the court of auditors, in particular for the promotion of interactive online tools for smes in the field of occupational safety and health. significant improvements have been made, in particular in the implementation of the annual work programme, the activity-based budget planning for 2013 and employment and pay issues. a high budget implementation rate (99%) was also achieved for 2013. i also take note of the adoption of the new multiannual strategic programme of the agency for the period 2014-2020.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the discharge report on the implementation of the budget of the euratom supply agency for the financial year 2013, as it allows the agency to continue its work without any disruption. the comments concerning the financial autonomy of the agency and the lack of internal control documentation need to be analysed and addressed, but they do not however diminish the need to grant discharge in this particular case. more efficient budgetary and financial management certainly contributes to the effective implementation of the agency's activities.
‒ the euratom supply agency was established with the aim of ensuring a regular and unbiased supply of nuclear energy to european users. the agency's focus is on the sustainability of the nuclear industry and strengthening security of supply. the agency is financed by the european commission and its final budget for the financial year 2013 was eur 104 000, the same as the previous year. the court of auditors confirmed the reliability of the submitted accounting documentation, and i therefore supported the discharge of the euratom supply agency. the agency should have financial autonomy under the statute, and the degree of dependence on the commission is therefore a concern. the european parliament stressed that, as part of the missing documentation, we are not familiar with the risk management and control strategy, the performance monitoring procedures, the functioning assessments of the internal control system and the code of professional standards, which should be corrected in the future.
‒ the euratom supply agency was established with the aim of ensuring a regular and unbiased supply of nuclear fuel to european users. the agency shall be responsible for the implementation of the union's nuclear safety and security policy, including the implementation of the union's nuclear security policy. i believe that europe should build its future on renewable and sustainable energy sources, which nuclear energy is not. i believe that with the end of the life of existing nuclear power plants, there will be no new ones built, and then there will be no need for an agency like this. the budget of the euratom supply agency for the financial year 2013 is unchanged from the previous year 2012. the court of auditors' report has demonstrated its confidence that the agency's annual accounts are reliable and that the underlying transactions are legal and regular. the commission notes that the court of auditors has not provided any evidence that the commission has not taken into account the fact that the financial situation of the beneficiary was not in line with the market economy operator test. the commitment appropriations rate is 95% and the payment appropriations rate is 59,22% in 2013. the agency will certainly need to report in more detail on its needs directly financed by the commission, as the accounting documentation shows the cost of salaries but does not detail the cost of administrative services.
written. ‒ euratom as a mechanism for the development of nuclear energy through a system of redistribution and sale of surplus energy and as a mechanism for financing nuclear projects within the european union is very important for the future of energy and the sustainable development of the union. i welcome the consistency in the financial statements and that the final budget of the euratom supply agency for the financial year 2013 is eur 104 000, the same amount as in 2012. i hope that the development and exploration of this extremely important energy source will progress and help europe in its goal of sustainable energy growth.
written. ‒ i support this discharge report on the implementation of the budget of the euroatom supply agency for the financial year 2013, taking into account that the court of auditors, in its report on the annual accounts of the european supply agency for the financial year 2013 (the 'court of auditors' report'), stated that it has obtained reasonable assurance that the agency's annual accounts are reliable and that the underlying transactions are legal and regular. the report shows the corrective action taken by the euroatom supply agency in relation to the comment made in the court's 2011 report and marked ongoing in the court's 2012 report, and marked completed in the court's 2013 report, it is further noted that the comment in the court's 2012 report is now marked present. the commitment appropriations rate (95%) and the payment appropriations rate (59,22%) are satisfactory.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the discharge report on the implementation of the budget of the euratom supply agency for the financial year 2013, as all corrective measures have been taken in relation to the observations made in the court's report for previous years, and as the agency's annual accounts are reliable and the underlying transactions are legal and regular, as evidenced by the court of auditors' report on the annual accounts and administrative documents of the euratom supply agency for the financial year 2013, i supported the discharge report on the implementation of the budget of the euratom supply agency for the financial year 2013. the degree of dependence of the agency on the commission is not fully apparent and the agency should have the financial autonomy provided for in its statute.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the discharge report for the 2013 financial year of the european foundation for the improvement of living and working conditions, which has been operating successfully since 1975 and works on policy development and greater application of expertise in key eu policy documents. the court of auditors shall be assisted by the european parliament and the council. the comments concerning the transfer of funds were explained by the reasons for the acquisition of it hardware and software, the urgent renovation procedures, and the budget expansion for several projects, the delay of the contractor in issuing invoices, and the comments concerning the conflict of interest were urgently requested by the foundation to correct the disputed points and to sign a comprehensive agreement with the member state where its headquarters are located. all the above comments should not diminish the need for a discharge.
‒ the european foundation for the improvement of living and working conditions was set up in 1975 to help governments, employers, trade unions and the union institutions in policy-making through independent research. the foundation's focus, in addition to working and living conditions, is on employer-employee relations. the court of auditors confirmed the reliability of the foundation's accounting records for the financial year 2013. the final budget was eur 20,6 million. i supported the european parliament resolution following the decision and commending the activities carried out by the foundation and welcoming the increased contribution of the foundation to the creation of key union policies.
‒ the european foundation for the improvement of living and working conditions was established to contribute to the planning and development of better living and working conditions in europe. the fund provides governments, employees, trade unions and the commission with knowledge and advice drawn from independent comparative research. the budget of the european foundation for the improvement of living and working conditions for the financial year 2013 was eur 20 624 300, representing a decrease of 3,76% compared to 2012. the foundation had a high budget implementation rate (99,5%) in 2013, indicating that commitments were being implemented in a timely manner. the court of auditors, in its report on the annual accounts of the foundation, has obtained reasonable assurance that the foundation's annual accounts are reliable and that the underlying transactions are legal and regular. the foundation shall be responsible for the implementation of the budget of the european union. the commission notes that the commission has not provided any information on the amount of the capital injections. in the meantime, all deficiencies have been addressed by the full implementation of the new system and changes in internal working procedures. the audit demonstrated that the foundation's management and control systems functioned in an effective and efficient manner. for all of the above, i have supported the discharge for the foundation's budget for fiscal year 2013.
‒ the european foundation for the improvement of living and working conditions started its work in 1975 and was one of the first bodies of the union to work on the implementation of specific policies of the european union. it is important to recognise its long history and its important role in the development of a europe of prosperity, a europe linked not only by trade and monetary ties but also by solidarity and the principles of achieving a life of dignity for all citizens of the union. i would like to commend 2013 as the first year under the foundation's four-year programme covering the period 2013 to 2016; i appreciate the activities carried out by the foundation in this context, relating to the timely provision of high-quality knowledge to support policy development used for example by the international labour organisation, and i welcome the progress made in most of the key performance indicators compared to 2012.
written. ‒ i support this discharge report on the implementation of the budget of the european foundation for the improvement of living and working conditions for the financial year 2013, taking into account that the court of auditors, in its report on the annual accounts of the european agency for the financial year 2013 (the 'court of auditors' report'), stated that it has obtained reasonable assurance that the agency's annual accounts are reliable and that the underlying transactions are legal and regular. the 2013 was the first year under the foundation's four-year programme covering the period 2013 to 2016, and i highly appreciate the activities carried out by the foundation in this context, which relate to the provision of high-quality and timely policy-relevant knowledge to support policy-making such as that used by the international labour organisation. the commission has also received a number of complaints from the member states concerning the implementation of the budget. in view of the above, i support parliament's proposal to grant discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european foundation for the improvement of living and working conditions for the financial year 2013.
written. ‒ i support the discharge for the implementation of the budget of the european foundation for the improvement of living and working conditions for the financial year 2013, on the basis of the reasonable assurance of the court of auditors and the report of the court of auditors that the foundation's annual accounting records are reliable, correct and lawful and that the identified shortcomings resulting from the transition period to the new accounting system for assets, the implementation of the new system and the changes in internal working procedures have been fully addressed. the commission notes that the commission has not provided any information on the amount of the aid granted to the beneficiaries.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the discharge report on the implementation of eurojust's budget for the financial year 2013 because, in general, all legal obligations were fulfilled on time, while at the same time improvements were made to public procurement procedures and recruitment processes. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's financial instruments, including the european neighbourhood instrument, and will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's financial instruments. in this context, the granting of the discharge allows for the further implementation of the changes initiated, and the smooth continuation of normal operations.
‒ eurojust was established to improve the coordination of criminal investigations between the judicial authorities of the member states in cases of serious cross-border and organised crime. the bureau shall consist of 28 members, one representative from each member state. i have supported the closure of the accounts of eurojust for the financial year 2013. the european parliament's discharge endorsed the court of auditors' decision on the reliability of the accounts. the financial statements show that the final budget of eurojust for the financial year 2013 was eur 33,8 million. the commission should also be able to provide the necessary information to the member states and the commission on the implementation of the budget.
‒ eurojust is an eu body established by a council decision with the aim of improving judicial cooperation in the fight against serious crime. it has been operating since 2003 and is based in the hague. eurojust shall assist national investigating and prosecuting authorities by cooperating and coordinating with them. there are 1,500 such cross-border cases a year. eurojust helps to build mutual trust and bridges the various legal systems and traditions known in the eu. by rapidly resolving legal problems and identifying competent authorities in the member states, eurojust facilitates the execution of requests for cooperation and the mutual recognition of legal instruments. the budget of eurojust for the financial year 2013 was eur 33 828 256. in its 2013 financial report, eurojust reduced its costs by 1,85% compared to the previous year and the level of contracted resources ranges between 98 and 99%. i supported the 2013 european union bureau for judicial cooperation circular because i believe that it is precisely this instrument that is necessary for the administration of justice in the european union. serious crimes must not go unpunished, first and foremost, for the sake of the victims and their families.
‒ eurojust is one of the european agencies and aims to encourage and improve the coordination of investigations and prosecutions between the competent authorities in the member states and to improve cooperation between those authorities. eurojust's competence covers the same types of crime and offences for which europol is competent, namely terrorism, drug trafficking, trafficking in human beings, money laundering and organised crime in general. i agree with the decision of the european parliament to grant the executive director of eurojust discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget for the financial year 2013. the final budget of eurojust for the financial year in question amounts to eur 33 828 256, representing a reduction of 1,85 % compared to 2012. the college shall be composed of 27 national members, one of whom shall be appointed by each member state of the union. the report also highlights the need to ensure that the european union's judicial authorities are able to effectively deal with conflicts of interest.
written. ‒ i support this report as the court of auditors stated in its report on the annual accounts of eurojust for the financial year 2013 (the 'court of auditors' report') that it has obtained reasonable assurance that the foundation's annual accounts are reliable and that the underlying transactions are legal and regular. i note from the report that corrective actions have been taken in relation to two comments made in the court of auditors' 2011 report and marked current or pending in the court of auditors' 2012 report and one comment in the court of auditors' current 2013 report marked completed and the other marked current. in addition to the above corrective measures, i welcome those relating to the reduction of automatic transfers of commitment appropriations, including a new forecast report and mandatory training on the 'spending cycle' for all actors involved in budget implementation.
written. ‒ i support the discharge for the implementation of the budget of eurojust for the financial year 2013, primarily because of the importance of eurojust, which was established to improve the fight against serious forms of organised crime and to improve the coordination of cross-border investigations and prosecutions between member states, as well as between member states and third countries. it is also worth noting the 'report of the court of auditors' on the annual accounts of eurojust for the financial year 2013. the union contribution to eurojust's budget for the financial year 2013 was eur 32 358 660, representing a decrease of 1,85 % compared to 2012.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the discharge report on the implementation of the budget of the european police office for the financial year 2013, because the financial statements of the said europol are in order and all transactions are legal. the documentation of the procurement procedure, the regularity of transactions and the recruitment process are some of the concerns mentioned in the discharge report that will need to be addressed in order to improve the work of europol and make progress. however, these comments do not diminish the discharge procedure.
written. ‒ the main task of the european police office is to coordinate police cooperation between member states in preventing and combating international organised crime, primarily relating to drug trafficking and stolen vehicles, trafficking in human beings and illegal immigration, child pornography, counterfeiting of money and other means of payment and terrorism. the report of mr czarnecki raises concerns about the public procurement procedure of europol, as some decisions were based on unclear selection criteria or unrealistic tenders and it was expected that the next review would be on public procurement, with recruitment, interest group management and data management. i supported the closure of the accounts of the european police office for the financial year 2013. the european parliament approved the court of auditors' decision on the reliability of the accounting records from which we can read the final budget of the office of eur 82,5 million.
written. ‒ the transparency report of the european police office (europol) has been presented and adopted, and the adoption of these proposals will bring additional transparency to the work of europol. the code of conduct and employment is highlighted and further improved and clear criteria are encouraged to be introduced in order to maximise transparency in the spending of budgetary money for the operation of europol. the financial report assessed by the court of auditors shows that the annual financial statements of the european police office present, in all material respects, a true and fair view of the office's financial position, its results of operations and cash flows for the financial year 2013, and that the underlying transactions on which europol's annual financial report for the financial year 2013 is based are, in all material respects, legal and regular. in view of the orderly conduct shown, i support the discharge for the implementation of the budget of europol for the financial year 2013, noting that the cvs and declarations of interests of the members of the management board and senior management, as well as the declarations of interests of the directors, are not publicly available. i call upon the bureau to remedy this deficiency immediately.
written. ‒ europol, the european police office, was established by the europol convention and has its seat in the hague. the purpose of that body is to coordinate police cooperation between member states in relation to the prevention of and the fight against international organised crime including trafficking in human beings, illegal immigrant networks, drug trafficking, etc. i support the decision of the european parliament to grant the director of europol discharge in respect of the implementation of the office's budget for the financial year 2013. the final budget for the financial year 2013 was eur 82 520 500, a decrease of 1,94%, compared to 2012. i welcome the court of auditors' report which found that reasonable assurance had been given that the office's annual accounting records were reliable and that the underlying transactions were legal and regular.
written. ‒ i support the report referred to in the title, taking into account the statement by the court of auditors in its report on the annual accounts of eurojust for the financial year 2013 (the 'court of auditors' report') that it has obtained reasonable assurance that the annual accounts of the european police office (europol) are reliable and that the underlying transactions are legal and regular. i agree with the court of auditors and the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs that europol has made progress over the years in terms of the design, execution and documentation of public procurement procedures, but i also agree that their efficiency needs to be further improved, as the selection criteria were not always sufficiently clear and the tenders were neither realistic nor in line with the agreed professional requirements. in general, i believe that further efforts are needed to establish good financial management of europol and i trust that the european police office will adopt the observations of the court of auditors, as it did with those in the 2012 report.
written. ‒i voted in favour of discharge for the implementation of the budget of the european police office for the financial year 2013. the budget monitoring efforts during the financial year 2013 resulted in a budget implementation rate of 98,60%, while the payment appropriations execution rate was 87,20%. it is confirmed that the level of committed appropriations carried over has been reduced from 19,64% in 2012 to 11,60% in 2013, but i call on the office to increase its efforts to reduce future carry-overs. the commission notes that the commission has not provided any information on the amount of the aid granted to the beneficiary. so the bureau has taken corrective action to correct that issue and the court considers that issue resolved. the office updated its recruitment guidelines and the recruitment procedure description and put in place its new code of conduct to increase transparency and independence in the performance of its duties.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the discharge report on the implementation of the budget of the european union agency for fundamental rights for the financial year 2013, as the agency's budgetary and financial management has proven to be successful and there were no objections regarding the public procurement and recruitment procedures. however, there is still a need to increase the level of transparency and to improve the handling of conflicts of interest. the approval of the discharge will allow the agency to further advance its work.
written. ‒ respect for fundamental human rights and freedoms is a value of all member states and the european union agency for fundamental rights assists them in this process. the purpose of the agency is to provide expertise on fundamental rights in taking action and deciding on appropriate action. in addition to gathering information and promoting research, the agency's tasks shall be to promote dialogue with civil society and to raise awareness of fundamental rights. the court of auditors is satisfied that the agency's accounting records are reliable and that the underlying transactions are legal and regular. on that basis, the european parliament approved the closure of the agency's books for the financial year 2013, for which the final budget was eur 21,3 million. the agency has signed cooperation agreements with other european union offices and agencies involved in some way in the field of fundamental human rights with a view to enhancing the exchange of information. the commission has also taken note of the fact that the agency's annual report on the implementation of the budget for 2014 was published in the official journal of the european union on 29 october 2014.
‒ the european union agency for fundamental rights was established to assist the relevant community institutions and bodies and its member states in providing expert information on fundamental rights in the implementation of community law and to support them in taking action and deciding on appropriate action. the final budget of the european union agency for fundamental rights for the financial year 2013 was eur 21 348 510, representing an increase of 4,77% compared to 2012, with a budget implementation rate of 100%. the european union is founded on fundamental personal, civil, political, economic and social rights, which it guarantees to all its citizens. conscious that human rights without exception must not be compromised, i supported the adoption of the discharge report on the implementation of the budget of the european union agency for fundamental rights and the closure of the agency's books for the financial year 2013, which is crucial for the collection and analysis of data related to the situation of fundamental rights, as well as for the provision of support to the member states in this regard.
‒ the european union agency for fundamental rights helps the institutions and member states of the european union to understand and address the challenges that prevent the full realisation of fundamental rights in practice, despite the eu's long tradition of promoting fundamental rights. the agency shall provide the institutions and member states of the european union with independent and evidence-based advice on fundamental rights. its objective is to contribute to ensuring full respect for fundamental rights throughout the european union. i support the discharge given by the european parliament to the director of the european union agency for fundamental rights in respect of the implementation of the agency's budget for the financial year 2013. the budget for the financial year 2013 was eur 21 348 510, representing an increase of 4,77 % compared to 2012. i strongly support fundamental rights that set minimum standards to ensure that individuals are treated with dignity. for this reason, i commend the work of the agency established as an independent body to support these efforts.
written. ‒ i support the report referred to in the title, taking into account the statement by the court of auditors in its report on the annual accounts of the european union agency for fundamental rights for the financial year 2013 (the 'court of auditors' report') that it has obtained reasonable assurance that the annual accounts of the said agency are reliable and that the underlying transactions are legal and regular. i welcome the opinion of the court of auditors and the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs that the level of carry-overs of payment appropriations in 2014 is fully justified and in line with the agency's annual work programme and that the agency has demonstrated excellence in budgetary management according to the court of auditors. i believe that, like other european agencies, the fundamental rights agency should pay greater attention to the principle of sound financial management in accordance with the budgetary principle of one year, i.e. economy, efficiency and effectiveness in the use of the resources at its disposal to fulfil its tasks, and i am confident that the agency will take these observations into account and take corrective measures in the following financial years.
written. ‒ noting that budget monitoring efforts during the financial year 2013 resulted in a budget implementation rate of 100% and that the payment appropriations execution rate was 70,27%, representing a decrease of 11% compared to 2012, and confirming, on the basis of the court of auditors' report, that the high overall level of appropriations set aside showed that commitments were being implemented in a timely manner, i have supported the discharge for the implementation of the budget of the european union agency for fundamental rights for the financial year 2013. cooperation agreements have also been concluded with the european foundation for the improvement of living and working conditions, the united nations, the european asylum support office, the european agency for the management of operational cooperation at the external borders of the member states of the european union, the european university institute, the european institute for gender equality and the council of europe, with a view to better coordination.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the discharge report on the implementation of the budget of the european agency for the management of operational cooperation at the external borders of the member states of the european union for the financial year 2013, which saw its budget increased by 4,88% in 2013 compared to 2012, and the total union contribution to the agency's budget increased by 1,79% in the same year. the observations concerning employment inequality, insufficient transparency of accounting records, unclear conflict of interest policy and the carry-over of funds from 2013 to 2014 do not diminish the need for discharge and the agency will have to take all measures to improve and enhance the transparency of its work.
written. ‒ the coordination of operational cooperation between member states in the management of the external borders is the main purpose of this agency. the agency's other tasks are to carry out risk analysis, to assist in the creation of training standards and in the conduct of training, to monitor research relevant for the control and surveillance of external borders and to assist in situations requiring additional engagement. the resolution accompanying the decision calls on the agency to adopt a clear and comprehensive policy for dealing with conflict of interest situations and expresses concern about the lack of transparency in the recruitment process. it also regrets the fact that for two consecutive years the court has not found reasonable assurance as to the legality and regularity of the agency's transactions relating to expenditure by member states. parliament expects the signature of a comprehensive agreement with the host member state. the agency's financial statements show that the agency's final budget for the financial year 2013 was eur 93,9 million, of which the union contribution was eur 85,5 million. the court of auditors approved the agency's accounting records and, accordingly, the european parliament approved the closure of the accounts which i supported.
‒ frontex is the european agency for the management of operational cooperation at the external borders of the european union, which promotes, coordinates and develops european border management in accordance with the charter of fundamental rights of the european union, applying the concept of integrated border management. frontex is responsible for coordinating the activities of national border services in the surveillance of the eu's external borders with non-member states. the commission shall be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 26 to supplement this regulation by laying down detailed rules for the application of this regulation. the commission shall be assisted by the european parliament and the council. it cooperates closely with other eu bodies, especially in the security and legal aspects. it also cooperates with the border services of non-eu/schengen countries, in particular those identified as the main sources or transit routes of illegal migration. with the large number of migrants arriving in the mediterranean, turkey's failure to respond to 'ghost ships', terrorist threats in the balkans and the continuing crisis in ukraine, it is important to increase frontex's powers but also to give it more financial resources to work.
written. ‒ i welcome the work of frontex and its important role in securing the eu's borders. it is interesting to recall that frontex was the first agency to decide in 2005 to set up its headquarters in one of the new member states that had joined the european union only a year earlier, namely in the polish city of warsaw. as a representative from the newest member country, i consider this move a very nice gesture in terms of european integration and i hope that a similar policy will be used in the case of the republic of croatia and that it too will become the future home of many european agencies. as regards the audit, i agree with the report and would particularly like to re-emphasise the part where the agency is called upon to make the cvs of the members of the management board public as soon as possible in a spirit of transparency in order to ensure against potential conflicts of interest, especially given the strategically important role of frontex in the security of the union, and i wish frontex much success in its further work.
written. ‒ i support the report referred to in the title, taking into account the statement of the court of auditors in its report on the annual accounts of the european agency for the management of operational cooperation at the external borders of the member states of the european union (fontex) for the financial year 2013 (the 'court of auditors' report') which considers that the annual accounts of the european agency for the management of operational cooperation at the external borders of the member states of the european union present fairly, in all material respects, its financial position as at 31 december 2013 and the results of its operations and financial flows for the year ended on that date, and considers that the transactions underlying the annual accounts of frontex for the financial year 2013 are legal and regular in all material respects. i also take note of the opinion of the court of auditors that audit evidence on the legality and regularity of transactions related to grants in the area of joint operations on land, sea and air is still insufficient, but that the possible effects arising from this situation are no longer systematic as in the previous year, and accordingly i welcome the fact that frontex introduced a stricter system of ex ante controls on grant contracts in june 2013.
written. ‒ i support the discharge for the implementation of the budget of the european agency for the management of operational cooperation at the external borders of the member states of the european union for the financial year 2013, as it has been established that the final annual accounts of the european agency for the management of operational cooperation at the external borders of the member states of the european union are in accordance with the format set out in the annex to the court of auditors' report. the commission has also received comments from the three sampled exporting producers, which were not represented on the provisional sample. the court of auditors has found that the transactions recorded in the accounts for the financial year 2013 are legal and regular in all material respects.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the discharge report on the implementation of the budget of the european gnss agency for the financial year 2013, as it allows the agency to continue its work without any disruption. the commission notes that the commission has not provided any evidence that the aid granted to the beneficiary was granted in breach of the rules on state aid. in addition, i welcome the measures taken to improve visibility and the positive outcome of the audit on human resources management.
written. ‒ the main task of the european gnss agency is to ensure the european satellite system and its successful functioning according to safety criteria. the agency shall also manage research in the field of satellite navigation, promote applications and services for navigation and certify system components. i supported the discharge as the court of auditors is satisfied that the agency's annual accounting records are reliable and that the transactions are legal and regular. in the final budget for the financial year 2013, which amounts to eur 80,4 million, the union contributed eur 13,9 million, which is almost 10% less than the previous year. the report of mr czarnecki's representative is based on the opinion of the court of auditors and sets out the positive and negative components of the agency's financial statements. unfortunately, there are many more warnings addressed to the agency. parliament regrets the lack of documentation related to the policy on the prevention and management of conflicts of interest and to favourable and environmentally friendly workplace solutions and calls on the agency to review the financial management strategy.
written. ‒ i support the decision to close the accounts of the european gnss agency for the financial year 2013 and welcome all the measures taken by the agency to improve its governance. i call on the agency to adopt a policy on the prevention and management of conflicts of interest as a matter of urgency and to develop and implement comprehensive independence policies and procedures by the end of september 2015 and to report to the discharge authority on the progress made and the timetable set for achieving the objectives. finally, i note that the agency has not fully answered the discharge authority's question on favourable and environmentally sound solutions for its workplace and i invite the agency to clarify this issue.
written. ‒ i welcome the work and importance of this agency in the management and control of the use of funds in the satellite navigation programmes, and in particular the galileo programme. as we know, gps as a navigation system that we use today in cars and smartphones was developed by the united states department of defense, and galileo is a project under development by the european union that is trying to create a european alternative to this system, which i consider particularly important as a step forward in positioning the union as a global player in the development of navigation and related technologies. that is why it is important to ensure that these programmes are in the public interest, which gnss has been doing successfully since 2004, as the figures show, and i welcome the court of auditors' report for the financial year 2013. the agency shall keep the accounts of the agency in a language which is easily understood by the public and which is easily understood by the general public.
written. ‒ i support the report referred to in the title as the court of auditors stated in its report on the annual financial statements of the european gnss agency for the financial year 2013 (the 'court of auditors' report') that it has obtained reasonable assurance that the agency's annual accounting records are reliable and that the underlying transactions are legal and regular. i welcome the efforts of the agency to correct the comments in the 2011 and 2012 reports and note from the court of auditors' report that three of the comments made in the 2011 court of auditors' report and marked as 'ongoing' in the 2012 court of auditors' report have been corrected and marked as 'completed' in the 2013 court of auditors' report, as well as two of the comments in the 2012 report. i would also like to welcome the measures taken by the agency in relation to visibility to bring its work closer to the citizens, and i encourage it to continue its good practice.
written. ‒ i supported the discharge for the implementation of the budget of the european gnss agency for the financial year 2013. the agency is responsible for the organisation and management of the use of the european geostationary navigation service (egnos) and has signed a contract for the use of egnos for the period 2014-2021 worth eur 588 000 000, on the basis of a delegation agreement concluded with the commission. according to the annual activity report of the agency as well as the court of auditors' report, the level and nature of the transfer of funds during 2013 remained within the limits of the agency's financial rules and, based on the observations of the commission's internal audit service, it is established that the management and control system applied at the agency provides reasonable assurance as to compliance with the applicable legal framework and internal procedures.
written. ‒ i voted against the discharge report on the implementation of the artemis joint undertaking's budget for the financial year 2013, which proposed to postpone the discharge to the joint undertaking. however, the postponement of the discharge was accepted due to the need to revise the policy on conflict of interest management and to improve the administrative funding agreements with the national authorities. i followed the recommendation of the alde group.
‒ artemis is a european technology platform aimed at developing key technologies for embedded computing systems. the joint trading company was established in 2007 for a period of 10 years with the aim of increasing the union's competitiveness and sustainability and creating new markets. i supported the decision of the european parliament to postpone the closure of the accounts for the financial year 2013, as well as the recommendations and comments set out in the resolution accompanying the decision. the union's financing is limited to eur 420 million over 10 years with the expectation that member states will contribute at least 1,8 times as much as the union. the report of czarnecki's representative states that the joint venture has developed procedures for monitoring, protecting and disseminating its research results at different stages, but these still need to be upgraded and a report on the socio-economic benefits of already completed projects needs to be submitted. the commission has also received a number of complaints from the member states and the commission on the implementation of the project.
written. ‒ given that the artemis joint undertaking's report was adopted by the committee on budgetary control by a margin of 4 votes, i hereby give conditional support to the implementing decision for the financial year 2013. i ask that the comments concerning the urgent establishment of the internal audit service of the artemis joint undertaking and the lack of a comprehensive policy on the management and prevention of conflicts of interest be taken into account. the need to clearly define the concept of conflict of interest, which must cover financial and non-financial interest, is reiterated. i call on the artemis joint undertaking to adopt a comprehensive policy aimed at better managing conflicts of interest.
written. ‒ the artemis joint undertaking was established at a time when embedded computing was experiencing a renaissance due to the availability of technologies and services that enabled the development of smartphones. the aim of the company was to design and strategise industrial sectors related to the emerging embedded computing technology and to enable the development of new markets and services. i consider that new technologies play a very important role in reindustrialising and strengthening the european union as a global player, and i welcome the work of artemis in 2013, but also highlight my concern at the fact that there is a lack of information on the assessment of the contribution of member states and research and development organisations that would be consistent with the actual level of union payments.
written. ‒ i support the report of mr ryszard czarnecki on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the artemis joint undertaking for the financial year 2013, on the grounds that the court of auditors stated in its report on the annual accounts of the said agency for the financial year 2013 that it has obtained reasonable assurance that the annual accounts of the artemis joint undertaking are reliable and that the underlying transactions are regular and regular. the commission notes that the commission has not provided any information on the number of employees of the company in the union. the joint undertaking shall be responsible for the implementation of the internal control system and the internal control system of the joint undertaking. i welcome the fact that the european parliament has asked the court of auditors to draw up a specific report on the possibilities of joint undertakings, together with their private partners, to ensure added value and effective implementation of union programmes in the fields of research, technological development and demonstration programmes.
written. ‒ i support this report and agree to the postponement of the discharge decision in respect of the implementation of the budget of the artemis joint undertaking for the financial year 2013. the joint undertaking's annual accounts for 2013 are to be published in the official journal of the european union and the court of auditors' reports. the joint undertaking has not implemented the recommendations of the discharge authority in the course of the year 2014 and has not adopted a comprehensive policy on the management and prevention of conflicts of interest. i believe that it is necessary to clearly define the concept of conflict of interest which must cover financial and non-financial interests. in view of the above, i consider the decision to postpone the discharge to be justified.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the discharge report on the implementation of the budget of the artemis joint undertaking for the financial year 2013. the artemis joint undertaking was established with the aim of developing key technologies for embedded computing in different fields of application in order to increase the union's competitiveness and to enable the emergence of new markets and socially relevant examples. the court of auditors confirmed that the 2013 annual financial report of the joint undertaking is in all respects representative of its financial position as at 31 december 2013 and that all results of its operations are in accordance with the provisions of its financial rules. the closure of the artemis accounts for the financial year 2013 has been postponed with a number of recommendations which must be in the report when the discharge is granted, except for the general recommendations appearing in the draft resolution on the efficiency, financial management and control of the eu agencies. the joint undertaking has developed procedures to monitor the protection and dissemination of its research at different stages of the project.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the discharge report on the implementation of the budget of the clean sky joint undertaking for the financial year 2013, as it identified improvements in the administrative, accounting, financial and budgetary procedures. the joint undertaking should be able to provide the necessary technical support to the joint undertaking in the form of technical assistance to the joint undertaking. the comments submitted do not, however, call into question the granting of a discharge which will contribute to the further development of air transport technologies.
written. ‒ clean skies is one of europe's most ambitious goals. the clean sky joint undertaking was established in 2007 for a period of 10 years, with the aim of developing clean air transport technologies to achieve environmental protection and conservation objectives. the financial plan is for the union to pay eur 800 million over a period of 10 years to the budget of the joint undertaking and for the other participants in the research to pay at least an equal amount. the commission has also received a letter from the president of the european parliament, mr pettinari, on behalf of the european parliament, the council, the european economic and social committee and the committee of the regions, requesting the european parliament to adopt a decision on the discharge to be given to the commission in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european union for the financial year 2013. the final budget included a commitment appropriation utilisation rate of 90,6% and a payment appropriation rate of 87,7%, which is worrying as it indicates delays in the implementation of the budget. although the court acknowledges the progress made in the management, administrative, financial and accounting procedures, several shortcomings have been identified in the requests for reimbursement of costs which need to be addressed.
the clean sky joint undertaking was set up in 2007 for a period of 10 years to accelerate the development, testing and demonstration of clean air transport technologies in the european union so that they can be put into use as soon as possible. the joint undertaking has involved more than 600 participants in its programme since its inception, leading to the creation of new partnerships and the participation of new organisations. the court of auditors' finding showed that the company's operations were legal, orderly and regular. the court of auditors has stated that the annual accounts of the joint undertaking for the year 2013 present, in all material respects, the financial position of the joint undertaking as at 31 december 2013 and that the results of its operations and cash flows for the year ended are in accordance with the provisions of its financial rules and has therefore approved the clean sky joint undertaking's discharge for the financial year 2013.
written. ‒ clean sky is the largest european aeronautical research programme, implemented as a public-private partnership, and is key to the implementation of environmental objectives, namely the development of new technologies to reduce carbon dioxide and sodium oxide emissions and to reduce aircraft noise. this programme is particularly important in the context of the single european sky and the targets of 50% and 80% emission reductions by 2020. the joint undertaking's annual accounts are prepared in accordance with the rules on financial transparency laid down in the financial regulation and the financial regulation, and are updated on a regular basis.
written. ‒ i support the discharge report of mr ryszard czarnecki on the implementation of the clean sky budget for the financial year 2013, on the grounds that the court of auditors, in its report on the annual accounts of the said agency for the financial year 2013 (the 'court of auditors' report'), stated that it has obtained reasonable assurance regarding the annual accounts of the clean sky joint undertaking and that they are reliable, legal and regular in all material respects. i support the european commission which in its recent report conducted the second transitional evaluation of the joint undertaking and assessed its effectiveness, efficiency and quality of research. the joint undertaking shall be governed by the laws of the member states and by the laws of the republic of moldova.
written. ‒ i support this report and agree with parliament's decision to discharge the clean sky joint undertaking's budget for the financial year 2013, taking into account that the court of auditors has stated that the joint undertaking's 2013 annual accounts represent, in all material respects, its financial position as at 31 december 2013 and that the results of its operations and cash flows for the year ended are in accordance with the provisions of its financial rules. i welcome the efforts of the joint undertaking to further improve its management, administrative, financial and accounting procedures and the fact that the joint undertaking adopted a code of conduct for the prevention and mitigation of conflicts of interest applicable to private members of the governing board in december 2013, although i believe that such a code should have been adopted at the time of the audit.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the discharge report on the implementation of the budget of the clean sky joint undertaking for the financial year 2013. the clean sky joint undertaking was established to test and demonstrate clean air transport technologies and to accelerate their development in the union so that they can be put into use as soon as possible. the annual accounts of the joint undertaking for the year 2013 are in all respects current as at 31 december and are in accordance with the provisions of its financial rules, states the court of auditors. the court also provided in its annual report accounting records showing that the underlying transactions were legal and regular in all respects. the second interim evaluation of the joint undertaking was carried out during march and october 2013 and assessed its effectiveness, efficiency and quality of research. the links between the clean sky joint undertaking and the sesar joint undertaking should be strengthened in order to reduce the risk of overlapping of their activities.
written. ‒ i voted out of the discharge report on the implementation of the budget of the eniac joint undertaking for the financial year 2013, which proposed to postpone the discharge to the joint undertaking. the joint undertaking should be able to provide the joint undertaking with the necessary technical and financial resources to implement the actions required to implement the joint undertaking's activities. i followed the recommendation of the alde group.
‒ the eniac joint undertaking was established in 2008 for a period of 10 years for the purpose of implementing a technology initiative related to the union's nanoelectronics research programme. the research is aimed at strengthening further integration of devices and increasing their functionality. i have supported the report by mr. czarnecki's counsel, which proposes to delay the closing of the books for the 2013 financial year, as the court of auditors has not confirmed the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions shown in the annual accounting documentation. the resolution following the delay in the closure of the agency's books contained recommendations due to concerns that for the third year in a row the reliability of the accounting records and limited information on the assessment of the contributions of the member states and aeneas could not be confirmed. the joint undertaking is invited to submit a report on the socio-economic benefits of the projects already completed.
the eniac joint undertaking was established on 20 december 2007 for a period of 10 years to define and implement a 'research programme' to develop key knowledge in nanoelectronics for various application areas. the founding members of the eniac joint undertaking are the european union, represented by the commission, belgium, germany, estonia, ireland, greece, spain, france, italy, the netherlands, poland, portugal, sweden and the united kingdom, and the association for european nanoelectronics activities (aeneas). the maximum contribution from the union to the joint undertaking for a period of 10 years shall be eur 450 000 000, to be paid from the budget of the seventh framework programme for research. the court of auditors, in its report on the annual accounts of the joint undertaking for the financial year 2013, has stated that the annual accounts of the eniac joint undertaking correctly present, in all material respects, the financial position of the joint undertaking as at 31 december 2013 and the results of its operations and cash flows for that year, in accordance with the provisions of its financial and accounting rules, and has therefore supported the adoption of the decision.
written. ‒ research and development in nanoelectronics is important for the development and competitiveness of the european industry from semiconductors to nanotubes, with results that have a visible impact on computer performance, increased speed and quality of signal transmission and perhaps even more efficient energy production, if nanoelectronics were properly exploited in the field of solar cells. in view of all this, the work of the eniac joint undertaking on nanoelectronics is important for the european union, but also for the development of science and technology and society in general, and good governance and transparent funding are of paramount importance. i am therefore concerned that the court has for the third year in a row delivered a conditional opinion on the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions shown in the annual accounts and i agree to invite the joint undertaking to report to the discharge authority on its strategy to rapidly implement the current practice. i hope that the european union will continue to pursue research and development and that nanoelectronics will be recognised by all european institutions as a key technology of the future.
written. ‒ i agree with the postponement of the discharge decision on the implementation of the budget of the eniac joint undertaking for the financial year 2013, in line with the fact that the court of auditors has for the third consecutive year delivered a conditional opinion on the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions shown in the annual accounts, as it was unable to conclude whether the ex post audit strategy, which relies heavily on the national funding bodies to audit project cost recovery requests, provides sufficient assurance with regard to the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions. i agree that the above conditional opinion of the court of auditors has called into question the willingness of the joint undertaking to achieve efficiency in accordance with the 'value for money' principle. the joint undertaking shall be responsible for the implementation of the joint undertaking's activities in the field of the implementation of the programme.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the discharge report on the implementation of the budget of the eniac joint undertaking for the financial year 2013. the eniac joint undertaking was established to define and implement a 'research programme' for the development of key knowledge in nanoelectronics. the commission has not received any comments from interested parties on the drafting of the accounts of the european investment bank for the financial year 2013 and the financial statements of the european investment bank for the financial year 2013. i am also concerned that the court has, for the third year in a row, delivered a conditional opinion on the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions shown in the annual accounts, but i commend the gesture of submitting, on the basis of the joint undertaking's submission, an action plan seeking to address the deficiencies identified by the court in its conditional opinion. the implementation of the action plan started in 2014 and the successful implementation of the entire action plan and the court's opinion on its outcome are eagerly awaited. the commission has also proposed a number of recommendations to be implemented in the report when the discharge is granted in line with the general recommendations contained in the draft resolution on the performance, financial management and control of eu agencies.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the discharge report on the implementation of the budget of the fuel cells and hydrogen joint undertaking for the financial year 2013, given the increased capacity to monitor and report on the results of the research projects and the specific measures to prevent conflicts of interest. the joint undertaking shall be responsible for the implementation of the budget and shall be accountable to the european parliament and to the council.
written. ‒ the task of the fuel cells and hydrogen joint trading company is to contribute to the implementation of the union strategies, in particular the strategies for safe, clean and efficient energy and smart, green and integrated transport. the commission notes that the commission has not provided any evidence that the measures in question are compatible with the internal market. the european parliament resolution accompanying the decision calls on the joint undertaking to report on the socio-economic benefits of projects already completed, to focus more on the horizon 2020 research strategy and to better manage the grants. in light of the court of auditors' confirmation that the underlying transactions are legal and regular, i have endorsed the report of attorney czarnecki approving the closure of the joint trading company's books for the 2013 financial year. the union contribution to the budget of the joint undertaking shall be limited to eur 470 million for a period of 10 years as agreed at its establishment.
the joint undertaking was established in may 2008 as a public-private partnership by regulation (ec) no 521/2008 for a period until 31 december 2017 to focus on the development of market-ready solutions that will then accelerate the additional efforts of industry to rapidly deploy fuel cell and hydrogen technologies. the members of the joint undertaking shall be the union, represented by the commission, the industrial grouping for the fuel articles and hydrogen joint technology initiative and the n.erghy research grouping. the court of auditors stated that the 2013 annual financial statements of the joint undertaking present, in all material respects, an objective view of its financial position as at 31 december 2013 and that the results of its operations and cash flows for the year ended are in line with the provisions of its financial rules, and i therefore supported the discharge for the implementation of the joint undertaking's budget for the financial year 2013.
written. ‒ the idea behind the fuel cells and hydrogen joint undertaking is to use public-private partnerships to develop hydrogen and fuel cell energy technologies to become commercially viable. hydrogen-based fuels are currently used to power non-commercial vehicles such as spacecraft, but mass production could also enable them to be used for commercial passenger transport. the commission will continue to support the implementation of the joint undertaking's activities in the field of energy efficiency and renewable energy. i am therefore pleased that the court of auditors gave a positive opinion on the legality and regularity of their activities in 2013.
written. ‒ i support the report referred to in the title, taking into account the statement of the court of auditors that the 2013 annual accounts of the joint undertaking present, in all material respects, an objective view of its financial position as at 31 december 2013 and that the results of its operations and cash flows for the year ended are in accordance with the provisions of its financial rules. i consider it necessary to take corrective measures to reduce the time needed to award the grant and the time needed to conclude the negotiations. on the other hand, i welcome the establishment of specific measures to prevent conflicts of interest for members of the management board, experts and employees, such as a clear definition of conflicts of interest with a database containing all related information and a process for managing them.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the discharge report on the implementation of the budget of the fuel cells and hydrogen joint undertaking for the financial year 2013. the joint undertaking will also be responsible for the development of the technical specifications for the fuel cells and hydrogen, including the technical specifications for the fuel cells and hydrogen for the production of the fuel cells and hydrogen for the production of the fuel cells and hydrogen for the production of the fuel cells and hydrogen for the production of the fuel cells and hydrogen for the production of the fuel cells and hydrogen for the production of the fuel cells and hydrogen for the production of the fuel cells and hydrogen for the production of the fuel cells and hydrogen for the production of the fuel cells and hydrogen for the production of the fuel cells and hydrogen for the production of the fuel cells and hydrogen for the production of the fuel cells and hydrogen for the production of the fuel cells and hydrogen for the production of the fuel cells and hydrogen for the production of the fuel cells and hydrogen for the production of the fuel cells. the court of auditors confirmed the 2013 annual financial report for the joint undertaking, that it presents an objective view of its financial position as at 31 december 2013 and that the results for the year ended are in accordance with the provisions of its financial rules. the joint undertaking shall be governed by the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the member states, including those of the union, and by the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the member states. the joint undertaking shall also establish a monitoring and reporting system relating to the protection, dissemination and transfer of research results by means of the seventh framework programme decision. the joint undertaking shall also be invited to submit a report to the discharge authority on the socio-economic benefits of projects already completed.
written. ‒ i voted out of the discharge report on the implementation of the budget of the joint undertaking for the implementation of the joint technology initiative for innovative medicines for the financial year 2013, which proposed to postpone the discharge to the joint undertaking due to certain observations on the identified shortcomings in the performance indicators. i followed the recommendation of the alde group.
written. ‒ one of the union's objectives is to improve the health of citizens through new and more effective diagnostic and treatment procedures. to this end, the innovative medicines initiative joint undertaking was established to ensure more effective and safer innovative medicines and the international competitiveness of the european biopharmaceutical and life science industries. i did not support the report by mr czarnecki's representative proposing to postpone the closure of the joint undertaking's books as the european parliament's resolution concludes that the joint undertaking has achieved its objectives. the resolution calls for the adoption of an action plan to address the deficiencies and errors identified by the court and for efforts to be made in the systems for monitoring operational performance and risks. the establishment of the joint undertaking for the innovative medicines initiative agreed that the union would contribute to its budget with eur 1 billion over a period of 10 years.
written. ‒ the innovative medicines initiative joint undertaking was established in december 2007 with a projected duration of 10 years to significantly improve the efficiency and effectiveness of the drug development process, with the long-term objective of making the pharmaceutical sector produce more effective and safer innovative medicines. unfortunately, today i could only support the decision to postpone the closure of the joint undertaking's accounts for the implementation of the joint technology initiative for innovative medicines for the financial year 2013. the commission has also found that the ex-post audits of the second representative sample of eur 3000000 were carried out by the same auditors and that the audit findings were not correct. the commission recalls that the commission has not provided any information on the number of audits carried out by the sampled union producers in the union in the past. the joint undertaking should be able to provide the necessary financial support to the joint undertaking in the form of grants, loans, guarantees and other financial instruments. for the reasons set out above, i could not support the 2013 discharge.
written. ‒ the innovative medicines initiative is the largest public-private initiative in the european union, and aims to accelerate the development of the pharmaceutical industry and better and safer medicines by building a network of experts from academia and industry and encouraging their cooperation. this is an important goal in terms of public health and citizen safety, but also in terms of developing technologies that potentially save lives. i support the court of auditors in advocating stronger operational and administrative procedures and documentation of activities to reduce the risk of accounting inconsistencies. the commission should also be able to provide the necessary information to the member states and the commission on the implementation of the financial rules.
written. ‒ i support the postponement of the decision on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the joint undertaking for the implementation of the joint technology initiative for innovative medicines for the financial year 2013. i base this view on the court of auditors' report on the annual financial statements of the joint undertaking for the implementation of the joint technology initiative for innovative medicines for the financial year 2013, in which it gave, for the third consecutive year, a conditional opinion on the legality and regularity of the transactions reflected in the annual reports of the joint undertaking on the basis of a detected error rate above the 2% materiality threshold. i invite the joint undertaking to provide the discharge authority with more in-depth information on the contributions of the european federation of pharmaceutical industries and associations (efpia) companies, in particular with regard to the type of in-kind contributions and their corresponding value.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the discharge report on the implementation of the budget of the joint undertaking for the implementation of the joint technology initiative for innovative medicines for the financial year 2013. the joint undertaking for innovative medicines initiative was established to significantly improve the efficiency and effectiveness of the drug development process and has the long-term objective of making the pharmaceutical sector produce more effective and safer innovative medicines. the annual accounts of the joint undertaking shall be kept up to date and shall be kept under review by the governing board. the closure of the accounts of the joint undertaking for the financial year 2013 has been postponed. the commission has also identified a number of recommendations to be implemented in the report when the discharge is granted in line with the general recommendations contained in the draft resolution on the efficiency, financial management and control of eu agencies.
written. ‒ i voted out of the discharge report on the implementation of the budget of the joint undertaking for iter and the development of fusion energy for the financial year 2013, which proposed to postpone the discharge of the joint undertaking due to an identified individual budget shortfall, inadequate handling of conflicts of interest cases, and poor operational procedures for public procurement. i followed the recommendation of the alde group.
written. - in the world of nuclear physics, there is a saying that "controlled fusion every 10 years is only 50 years away from practical application", and this situation has been going on for about 70 years. the solution to this paradox was to be found in the iter and fusion energy joint undertaking, which involves the member states of the european union and major economic powers such as the united states, india, japan, russia and china. unfortunately, in addition to the complex problems of controlling the fusion reaction in the magnetic field, this project is beset by problems of a financial nature. the commission has also decided to extend the scope of the financial contribution to the iter project to cover the costs of the iter project. the court of auditors' finding shows that this amount is twice as high as the initial budgetary expenditure and does not include the amount of eur 663 000 000 proposed by the commission to cover any unforeseen expenditure. the commission shall be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 264 concerning the establishment of a european data protection supervisor. the joint undertaking shall be responsible for the implementation of the budget for the financial year 2014-2020. the commission has not received any comments from interested parties.
written. ‒ iter, which means 'way' in latin, is a joint venture established for international cooperation on one of the world's largest fusion energy projects, which has the potential to provide a sustainable solution not only to european but also to global energy needs. in addition to the european union, russia, japan, china, india, south korea, and the united states are involved in the project, but the european union is the main contributor, financing almost half of the total budget. for this reason, it is important to identify any possibility of increasing efficiency and savings through better budgetary and financial management. it is therefore important to continue to work on internal control systems and i am pleased that the court of auditors' report noted that significant progress was made in this area during 2012. i believe that the work of iter is crucial to the realization of the fusion technologies of the future.
written. ‒ i support the postponement of the discharge decision for the implementation of the budget of the joint undertaking for iter and the development of fusion energy for the financial year 2013. the commission shall be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 290 concerning the establishment of the european data protection board. the commission shall assess the impact of the project on the level of risk of the project. i am concerned that the joint undertaking has not yet implemented a system for regular monitoring of cost deviations in contracts and has not updated the evaluation of the joint undertaking's contribution to the iter project after the completion of the development phase with regard to those risks. the joint undertaking should be able to provide the necessary financial support to the joint undertaking in the form of grants, loans, guarantees and other financial instruments.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the discharge report on the implementation of the budget of the joint undertaking for iter and the development of fusion energy for the financial year 2013. the annual accounts of the joint undertaking shall, in all material respects, present an objective view of its financial position as at 31 december 2013 and shall be in accordance with its financial rules. the amount of eur 1 254 000 000 allocated to the operational activities of the joint undertaking was implemented by 61.7% in the form of direct individual commitments and by 38.3% in the form of total commitments. the joint undertaking shall be invited to submit to the competent authority, in a timely manner, reports on the level of implementation of the projects, the risks and other factors, to correct the problems related to the relocation of the joint undertaking to the permanent premises and to adopt any rules on the implementation of the staff regulations. the joint undertaking shall be responsible for the implementation of the quality assurance obligations of the joint undertaking and for the implementation of the quality management system.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the discharge report on the implementation of the budget of the sesar joint undertaking for the financial year 2013, as this is one of the fundamental projects for the establishment of the single european sky, which aims to modernise air traffic management in europe through the management research programme run by the sesar joint undertaking. the accounting documentation has proven to be sound and the comments in the form of recommendations concern better communication and information to member states about the project and the need to continue working to improve the rate of achievement of the annual targets. in order to allow the sesar joint undertaking to continue its work without disruption, i consider it necessary to grant discharge.
‒ in 2004, the european commission decided to invest €600 million to tackle air congestion. the commission notes that the air traffic controllers have been able to demonstrate that the air traffic control system is functioning properly and that the air traffic control system is functioning properly. the objective of sesar is to modernise air traffic management and provide technical and operational assistance for the achievement of the single european sky. the resolution accompanying the decision to close the books calls for sesar to report on the socio-economic benefits of projects already completed and to strengthen the links with the clean sky joint undertaking as they operate in the same field. the court of auditors has confirmed the reliability of the accounts and the discharge clears the closure of the accounts for the financial year 2013. so i supported the decision. the budget for the sesar joint undertaking for the period 2008 to 2016 shall be eur 2,1 billion, with equal shares of the union, eurocontrol and the public and private partners involved in the project.
written. ‒ the development of new technologies to increase the capacity and reduce the costs of european airspace is envisaged by the establishment of a joint undertaking for air traffic management research on the single european sky. the joint undertaking shall play an important role in coordinating and implementing research under the sesar project, one of the key projects for the establishment of the single european sky. the court of auditors' finding shows that the 2013 annual accounts of the joint undertaking present, in all material respects, an objective view of its financial position as at 31 december 2013 and that the results of operations and cash flows for the year ended are in accordance with the provisions of the financial rules. the final budget of the joint undertaking for the financial year 2013 shall include commitment appropriations of eur 64,300,000 and payment appropriations of eur 105,400,000. the commission has also decided to make available to the member states the annual accounts of the european union solidarity fund for the financial year 2012 (oj c 180, 1.7.2012, p. the differences in commitments and appropriations should be linked to the fact that 2014 marks the beginning of the deployment phase of the sesar project. the commission shall be assisted by the european parliament and the council.
written. ‒ i support the discharge report on the implementation of the budget of the sesar joint undertaking for the financial year 2013. i stress the importance of the work of the sesar joint undertaking and its establishment for the purpose of modernising europe's air traffic management. the joint undertaking has an important role to play in coordinating and implementing research under the sesar project, one of the key projects for the establishment of the single european sky. the mobility of european union citizens, but also the efficiency of those who often travel by air on european routes for business reasons, should and must be the primary objective of the formulation of air safety rules. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the sesar programme, in particular through the development of the sesar programme, and will continue to monitor the implementation of the sesar programme. the amount of eur 2 100 000 000 from the european budget is an amount which should certainly be matched by the importance of financial control and financial operations in accordance with the rules laid down.
written. ‒ i support the decision on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the sesar joint undertaking for the financial year 2013, in accordance with the statement of assurance by the court of auditors on the objectivity of the accounts of the joint undertaking. i am pleased that the court of auditors has found the accounts of the sesar joint undertaking for the financial year 2013 to be correct. in view of the important role played by the joint undertaking in coordinating and conducting research under the sesar project, one of the key projects for the establishment of the single european sky, i welcome the fact that the joint undertaking has introduced specific measures to prevent conflicts and that improvements have been made in the area of ex ante controls. in view of the above, i agree with the proposal of the committee on transport and tourism that the european parliament give a discharge to the executive director of the joint undertaking in respect of the implementation of its budget for the financial year 2013.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the discharge report on the implementation of the budget of the sesar joint undertaking for the financial year 2013. the sesar project is a joint undertaking established to manage the single european air traffic management research programme (sesar), which aims to modernise air traffic management in europe. given that the court of auditors has not found any irregularity in relation to the 2013 financial report of the sesar joint undertaking and that all the main transactions are legal and regular, parliament is invited to approve the discharge report. the joint undertaking has provided for a reduction in the number of projects to 250 by merging existing projects and has allocated eur 38 000 000 to finance new operational activities under the 4th multilateral framework agreement. the governing board of the joint undertaking has adopted its provisional financial rules for the programming period 2014-2020 and they are adopted in accordance with the framework financial regulation.
written. ‒ i support this report by mrs gill because i think that a good compromise agreement has been reached with the other groups in the european parliament on some issues, such as the problem of cnav (constant net asset value) risk. the lvnav will, in the opinion of many experts, vary much less than the cnav, and this will also eliminate many of the risks associated with cnav. i also support the s&d group's view that the 'sunset clause' is the line that cannot be crossed, that is, the border by crossing which my vote would also be against.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of deferring the report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the emf at the request of the rapporteur. i took part in the discussion and expressed my opinion on the cash flows during the session.
written. ‒ the report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the monetary funds (com ((2013) 0615 c7-0263/2013 2013/0306 ((cod)) accepts, with certain amendments, the commission's legislative proposal aimed at ensuring uniform supervisory requirements to be applied to the monetary funds throughout the union. the committee on economic and monetary affairs recommended that parliament adopt a first reading position. i agree that it is necessary to adopt a single set of rules in order to avoid a 'contagion' of the short-term financing market that would undermine the stability of the union's financial market. in order to mitigate systemic risk, the proposed regulation lays down the operating conditions of mmfs with fixed net asset value, assets eligible for investment by mmfs and eligible securitisations. i am particularly pleased with the requirements for transparency of investments in mmfs and the proposal for regular weekly information to investors on the activities of the funds in which they have invested their funds. i consider the adoption of this regulation to be very important, particularly from the point of view of the instability of the financial markets, that is, the money market on which money funds also operate. i therefore support this report.
written. ‒ an mmf is a mutual fund that invests in short-term debt, such as money market instruments issued by banks, governments or corporations. the imf is used by a significant proportion of industry, local authorities, charitable foundations, ... as a cash and surplus management instrument, while it provides a significant source of short-term financing: in europe, about 22% of short-term long-term debt securities are held by the government or by the corporate sector by the imf. the commission shall be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 264 concerning the establishment of a european data protection supervisor. furthermore, due to their systemic links to the banking sector and to corporate and government finance, mmfs have been identified as acting in the shadow of banks. these funds are also sensitive to various risks, which is why this proposal for a regulation is on the agenda. this is the second time this proposal has been brought to the econ agenda, as the first attempt failed to reach a compromise, which speaks to the complexity of the area being regulated. the fight to align with the positions of the other political groups, which were mainly to leave the status quo to the unregulated imf, was demanding, but the rapporteur has found a good compromise which is why i want to support her.
written. ‒ i support the report by mrs gill and the draft legislative resolution of the european parliament on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the monetary funds. the emfs provide short-term financing to financial institutions, businesses and governments, which means that they contribute to the financing of the european economy. the important thing is the link between the supply of short-term money and the demand for it. it is therefore important to establish precise, very carefully balanced rules concerning the financial instruments eligible for investment by the mmf, its portfolio and its valuation. it is necessary to lay down reporting requirements in relation to a mmf established, managed or traded in the union. one year after entry into force, only 12 member states had implemented the guidelines for mmfs adopted by the committee of european securities regulators (cesr). it has been shown that differences between national rules still exist and that different national approaches do not address the weaknesses of the money market in the union and that there is no possibility of creating a level playing field. therefore, these common rules for mmfs should address existing problems, provide a high level of investor protection and prevent and mitigate any potential risk of contagion of the short-term funding market and of the mmf sponsor arising from a possible flight from those funds.
written. ‒ monetary funds provide short-term financing to financial institutions, businesses and governments. by financing these entities, the mmfs contribute to the financing of the european economy. such entities use their investments in mmfs as an effective way to spread their own credit risk and credit exposure rather than relying solely on bank deposits. the new rules for mmfs are closely linked to directive 2009/65/ec (the 'mfd directive') and directive 2011/61/eu (the 'mfd directive') as they constitute the legal framework governing the establishment, management and sale of mmfs in the union. the specificity of mmfs derives from the combination of the assets in which they invest and their objectives. the objective of achieving a return in line with money market rates and the objective of preserving the value of investments are not mutually exclusive. the mmf may have one of these objectives or both at the same time. the mmf portfolio rules would require a clear definition of the categories of assets eligible for investment by mmfs and the conditions under which they are eligible. in order to ensure the integrity of mmfs, it is desirable to prohibit certain financial transactions by mmfs that would jeopardise the investment strategy and objectives and thus further destabilise markets in times of instability. so i supported the reporters.
written. mmfs hold monetary instruments such as treasury bills, commercial papers and certificates of deposit, and by trading these instruments in the money market, they provide short-term financing to companies, financial institutions and governments. furthermore, money funds are a key link between the demand for and supply of short-term money in financial markets. although mmfs were considered to be very stable sources of short-term funding, the financial crisis has revealed several features of mmfs that may pose a systemic risk in times of crisis. the commission notes that the bank's capital needs are not limited to the capital needs of the banks, but also to the capital needs of the banks themselves. in order to avoid negative consequences on financial markets, europe needs to set uniform rules across the union, which would make mmfs more resilient to future financial crises and increase investor protection. at the same time, we cannot ignore the important role of monetary funds in financing the state and the corporate sector. it is therefore very important to support the proposal on the monetary funds, as it provides the guidelines for how a united and integrated europe can have a stable and sustainable development of the money market and thus of the economy as a whole.
written. ‒ according to a report presented by commissioner jourova, more than 20% of rapex alerts are related to textile products. i am in favour of putting special emphasis on the import of safe goods in contracts with third countries.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the draft legislative resolution of the european parliament on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on common rules for imports of textile products from certain third countries not covered by bilateral agreements, protocols or other arrangements, or by other specific union import rules, given that the textile sector is very sensitive for the eu and it is important that the applicable rules are clear and acceptable to users and provide them with legal certainty. furthermore, according to the advisory group of the legal services of the european parliament, the council and the commission, the commission proposal does not contain any substantive changes other than those indicated as such in the proposal and, as regards the codification of the unchanged provisions of the previous acts and those amendments, the proposal is limited to the codification of existing acts without substantial changes to them.
written. ‒ i supported this proposal because the codification of the regulation in question and its subsequent amendments contributes to greater legal certainty in the application of the act, both for the member states and for the stakeholders on which the regulation has legal effect. the commission proposal concerns the codification and revision of regulation (ec) no 517/94 of 7 march 1994 on common rules for imports of textiles from certain third countries not covered by bilateral agreements, protocols or other arrangements under other specific union import rules. in order to ensure that the prescribed trade policy decision-making procedures are aligned with the new regime of delegated and implementing acts, which was done by means of omnibus i (the implementing act) and omnibus ii (the delegated act) which amended the trade-related set of rules, it was essential to codify this act as well. the commission notes that the union industry has not been able to demonstrate that the measures in force are in line with the union's policy on trade in textiles. that's understandable, but it's not understandable what are the reasons for these countries to import anything given their respect for human rights and democratic values.
written. ‒ since, in the opinion of the consultative working party of the legal services of the european parliament, the council and the commission, the commission proposal does not contain any substantive changes other than those indicated as such in the proposal, and the proposal, as regards the codification of the unchanged provisions of the previous acts and those amendments, is limited to the codification of the existing acts without substantial amendment, i support the amendment of the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on common rules for imports of textile products from certain third countries not covered by bilateral agreements, protocols or other arrangements, or by other specific union import rules.
written. ‒ i support the report by mr walesa on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on common rules for imports of textile products from certain third countries not covered by bilateral agreements, protocols or other arrangements, or by other specific union import rules. the commission has also taken into account the fact that the union's trade policy is not a single market, but is rather a single market in which the union is a major player. although the report actually covers only two countries (belarus and north korea), due to the sensitivity of the position of the textile industry in the eu, it is crucial to have clear rules that are easy to apply and guarantee legal certainty. the european textile industry has faced numerous difficulties and challenges for decades, therefore it is important to support the work of the european technology platform for the future of textiles and clothing in the eu and research segments that can increase the competitiveness of the eu economy. in recent years, the croatian textile industry has been working with the academic community and the business sector to raise the quality level and be competitive in the demanding international market by using innovative solutions.
written. ‒ i have supported the report on the proposal relating to the revision of regulation (ec) no 517/94 of 7 march 1994 on common rules for imports of textile products from certain third countries not covered by bilateral agreements, protocols or other arrangements, or by other specific union import rules. the eu has also been able to increase its export volumes to the eu from belarus and north korea. in order to allow for the establishment of control and safeguard measures by the european union, the regulation provides for annual quantitative restrictions on imports of a number of textile products from those two countries, as well as for distribution and management by means of implementing regulations by the commission. in view of the sensitivity of the textile sector in the union, i consider it important to take measures to control textile imports from third countries. the commission has not received any comments from interested parties. it is therefore important to apply rules that are clear and understandable to operators and, through the same, to ensure legal certainty.
written. ‒ in the opinion of the consultative working party of the legal services of the european parliament, the council and the commission, the commission proposal does not contain any substantive changes other than those indicated as such in the proposal and that the proposal, as regards the codification of the unchanged provisions of the previous acts and those amendments, is limited to the codification of existing acts without substantial changes to them, and i therefore support the rapporteur.
written. i voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on common rules for imports of textile products from certain third countries not covered by bilateral agreements, protocols or other arrangements, or by other specific import rules. the eu legislative act has been amended and supplemented several times and as such cannot be understood by the general public. in order to simplify the use of eu legislative acts, that is to say to make them more accessible to the public for the interpretation of certain rights they may exercise, it is necessary to unify the legislative texts. in this case, according to the report of the legal advisory group, it is a simplification, i.e. a codification of already existing legislative acts with only minor changes on the rules for the import of textile products from third countries.
written. ‒i voted against this report because i believe that increasing the monthly budget for the functioning of the euro-representative office is a bad and unnecessary move. especially at a time when austerity and fiscal discipline are the terms that citizens most associate with the eu.
written. ‒ i voted for the report on the estimate of revenue and expenditure for the financial year 2016 part i. parliament, since it takes into account a whole series of specific criteria: it ensures the conditions for achieving parliamentary priorities, security, cybersecurity, investments, communication, staff, etc. the evaluation shall take into account realistic planning, the principles of budgetary discipline and the relevant requirements of sound financial management. the commission shall assess the impact of the measures on the security of buildings and the security of the network.
‒ report on the estimate of revenue and expenditure of the european parliament for the financial year 2016 (2015/2012 ((bud)) through the draft budget forecast for 2016 seeks to monitor the needs of the work of members in the european parliament and the current security circumstances requiring enhanced security inside and outside parliament's premises. the additional security measures, which include computer security, are one of the reasons for the increase in the ep's budget for 2016 and i consider them justified. significant additional expenditure has also resulted from several developments, such as the establishment of the european parliament as a true co-legislator and the enhanced real estate management policy (2010 2012), the accession of croatia to the european union, the construction of the house of european history (2013), and the establishment of the parliament's research service (2014 and 2015). i support the call for parliament to act responsibly and with restraint in the use of its financial resources and agree that priority should be given in 2016 to strengthening parliamentary work, in particular by strengthening parliament's legislative action and its capacity to scrutinise the executive. i welcome the fact that this report has made reference to the considerable savings that could be made if there were only one job instead of three (brussels, strasbourg, luxembourg). i therefore support this report.
written. ‒ in times of financial crisis faced by citizens across the union, i think it is appropriate, not populist, to at least keep the european parliament's expenditure at the same level. that is why i have rejected the proposals for budget increases which we members of parliament have at our disposal, as well as the report as a whole.
written. ‒ this procedure is the first full budgetary procedure to be carried out in the new legislative session and the third procedure under the multiannual financial framework for the period 2014-2020. i welcome the good cooperation between the presidency of the european parliament and the committee on budgets established during the current budgetary procedure and the agreement reached in the conciliation procedure. since the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon, which gave parliament the role of a true co-legislator, and since one of parliament's most important tasks is to control the executive, it has become necessary to place emphasis on the legislative and supervisory work of members of parliament and to place these obligations in budgetary terms, i support the report.
written. i voted in favour of the european parliament's estimates of revenue and expenditure for the financial year 2016, as an increase of 1.6% would allow the european parliament to play its co-legislative role in the european union in a high quality way. the european parliament has been given co-legislature status by the lisbon treaty and to enable it to perform this task in a high-quality manner, the eu's administrative capacity needs to be strengthened, thereby also making it easier for meps to carry out their day-to-day activities. in addition to facilitating the functioning of the european parliament, an increase of 1.6% would also mean the possibility of new employment for young, educated people who are over-represented in the labour market. the draft estimate of revenue and expenditure of the european parliament for the financial year 2016 provides for an increase of 1,6% compared to 2015 expenditure and has a multifaceted objective: to create new jobs, to increase the monthly budget for members' offices, to increase security in the european parliament and to increase the budget for political parties and political foundations.
written. ‒ i support this report on the public prosecutor's office, which aims to investigate, prosecute and bring to trial criminal offences related to fraud and corruption to the detriment of eu countries. the selection procedure for independent prosecutors and the division of competences between the public prosecutor and the national prosecutors of the member states on the one hand, as well as the strengthening of procedural rights of suspects, should be given particular attention. in any event, the independent prosecutor will help to protect the financial interests of the european union and to fight fraud and corruption.
written. ‒ i voted for the interim report on the proposal for a council regulation establishing the european public prosecutor's office because it is a welcome initiative that will strengthen the legal certainty of the european union. the data show that fraud affecting the union's interests amounts to €500 million a year and many member states have done little to detect it. the eppo should be able to exercise its powers in accordance with the applicable national law. taking into account all the advantages of this proposal, i voted in favour of this motion for a resolution on the establishment of the european public prosecutor's office.
written. ‒ i supported the report on the proposal for a council regulation establishing a european public prosecutor's office. the european parliament, the council and the commission have agreed to continue to work together on the establishment of the european public prosecutor's office. in the further steps of the design of the initiative, it is important to continue to systematically inform and involve the european parliament so that it is fully informed and can give its timely consent to the council on the draft of that regulation. the european parliament and the council, acting in accordance with the ordinary legislative procedure, shall adopt the laws, regulations and administrative provisions necessary to comply with this directive. it is necessary to harmonise the coordination of the national systems of the member states and the european bureau and to ensure independence from national authorities and the eu institutions, in particular in the appointment of the heads of the european bureau. i also consider it extremely important to establish an effective case management structure, legal protection for suspects and accused persons in line with national legislation, the inclusion of specific data protection fees and all measures to protect the european office from possible conflicts of interest and corruption.
written. ‒ the establishment of an independent and efficient european public prosecutor's office (eppo) will help safeguard the financial interests of the european union and its citizens, which is why i supported the report by my colleague mrs macova. the eppo has also been asked to provide a list of the names of the european union delegations to the european parliament, the council and the commission, as well as the names of the european union delegations to the european parliament and the council. the eppo has also been asked to provide a report on the implementation of the new rules on the protection of personal data.
written. ‒ i strongly support the adoption of a regulation establishing a european public prosecutor's office responsible for investigating and prosecuting crimes against the eu's financial interests. the report by ms macovei certainly contributes to the adoption of a good regulation. the office shall be established in accordance with the law of the member state in which the european public prosecutor's office is established. the need to establish such a body is also borne out by the indicative average amounts of fraud of at least eur 500 million per year and the insufficient number of indictments. the european public prosecutor's office should be able to provide the necessary information to the national prosecutor's office in order to carry out the investigation. the selection procedure for the prosecutors should be transparent and in line with the highest professional standards, as it is essential for the achievement of the objectives of the establishment of the office that the prosecutors be fully independent and free from political pressure. i consider that, in accordance with the provisions on legislative procedure, the reasoned opinions of the national parliaments should be analysed and taken into account when considering the office's organisation models.
written. ‒ i supported the report on the establishment of the european public prosecutor's office because i consider that the current situation with fraud within the union's borders is not favourable. i am thinking of the latest figures which tell us that fraud and suspicion affect the eu's financial interests to the tune of 500 million euros a year. if we put this number in relation to the indictment rate, we get a 21 percent rate over the last eight years. i agree that this is a very low rate and therefore i think that the european public prosecutor's office should have as its main objective to bridge this gap. as shadow rapporteur in the committee on regional development, i stressed the importance of national agencies in the fight against fraud and warned that their competences must be harmonised across the union. the european public prosecutor should be able to act effectively only if he or she has the support of well-developed structures in the member states.
written. ‒ the data collected and analysed by the commission have confirmed suspicions of fraud affecting the financial interests of the union to the tune of eur 500 million on average per year, and there are good reasons to believe that as much as eur 3 billion per year could be at risk of fraud. i therefore consider it important to ensure the establishment of a single, strong and independent european public prosecutor's office that will be able to investigate, prosecute and bring to justice the perpetrators of offences affecting the financial interests of the union, which is why i support the report.
written. i support the proposal for a regulation establishing the european public prosecutor's office because we need an independent body to reduce financial fraud in the union. the proposal will improve taxpayers' confidence in the european institutions. the commission has also provided a number of additional information to the european parliament and the council on the implementation of the european anti-fraud office's (olaf) anti-fraud strategy. the establishment of the european public prosecutor's office will also bring legal safeguards for greater control of the judiciary, the various investigative tools, independence and admissibility of evidence, and should be fully independent of national governments and eu institutions and protected from political influence and pressure. the european delegated prosecutors should be appointed by the european parliament and the council on the basis of a proposal from the european parliament and the council.
written. ‒ strengthening cooperation between judicial authorities across europe and raising the efficiency of our judicial systems as well as further developing cooperation between police forces of the member states are objectives that i wholeheartedly support. the commission should be able to take the necessary measures to ensure that the right of initiative in bringing legal proceedings is exercised in accordance with the law of the member state concerned. i am deeply convinced that the introduction of two-tiered litigation, however well defined and delimited, would frequently create confusion and consequently reduce the efficiency of our justice systems. nor should we overlook the negative experiences that members like my own croatia have with transnational prosecutors. croatian citizens are rightly outraged by the work of the hague prosecutor's office, which without any doubt, even if the icty is not a court of the european union, seriously undermined croatian trust in supranational judicial bodies.
mr. president, we are facing a new war. let's hope it doesn't, but what is certain is that we are facing a refugee crisis that is here. who will pay the big tax in the end? of course, europe will be part of this and pay its own toll on another crisis caused by some who may be partly european friends or at least some european countries or european governments. we have to do something concrete if we don't want another crisis to appear on our doorstep tomorrow. the tragedy of the mediterranean is the result of what did not happen and did not act in time in some countries of central africa. it's a similar situation here, and that's why i'm for clear policy. the message from the european parliament must be clear, the message from the commission must be clear. we ask that in burundi, people who do not have our support should definitely not run. if they want our support, then they have to face the consequences.
mr. president, the tragedy that occurred in kenya proves that terrorism cannot be justified by any injustice that may have been committed through international politics against any state, nation or religious group. all those who find in injustice a justification for violence should reflect deeply on the death of these 147 young people. who have they wronged, colonized or robbed, bombed and killed? no one, not a soul. they were young people eager for knowledge and a normal life whose only crime was being christians. and sadly, these young people are not the only christians who have lost their lives in the terror-stricken parts of the world. in the middle east, where christianity originated, there is an exodus of christians. i therefore appeal to those who would like to spread our european values, and above all our christian values, across the globe to do something first to ensure that these values survive where they have existed for 2,000 years.
mr. president, first of all, i want to express my condolences to the families of the students killed in the al-shabaab terrorist attack at garrissa university in kenya. according to witnesses, the terrorists were just picking out christians for execution. but kenya is no exception when it comes to attacks on christians. 70% of christians in iraq have been forced to leave their homes. syria's christian population has fallen from 30% to less than 10% in less than 100 years. christians are the most persecuted religious minority in the world today. but some in the european parliament clearly don't want to admit it. it is indeed astonishing how intolerant a number of members are towards this issue. everything can be discussed in this house, but the persecution of christians seems to be a subject that is rarely or never discussed. and this is not just a christian issue. there is a growing sense in this house that any mention of religion is inappropriate, even though religion is an integral part of human nature and social life. so not only is there a private sphere, but there's also a social dimension. such a fanatical attitude against religion and its social dimensions, of course, like any fanaticism, can only provoke an extreme reaction, and that would be the end of europe as we know it today. that's why instead of fanaticism, we need dialogue. but the attempt we saw yesterday to sabotage this debate or the passing of a resolution, unfortunately shows that a certain number of mps are not ready for dialogue. we will not give up, we will speak out against the persecution of christians and we will speak out against any fanaticism.
madam president, the greatest persecution of christians in the world today is in north korea, somalia, iraq, syria and afghanistan. christians are exposed to persecution, violence, and psychological abuse. in north korea, somalia, and iraq, not only is it illegal to practice religion, but it is dangerous to think about religion. if they are found to be believers, even though they do not practice their faith, they may be executed. such violations of basic human rights can no longer be tolerated. it's about telling the truth. christians are being genocided on as many as four continents. in 18 of the top 20 countries, the reason is islamic extremism. the murder of young people in kenya is just a continuation of what we've already seen in nigeria and pakistan. anyone who shoots at young people just because they are christians is shooting at the future of a religion, the oldest religion in the world, a religion that has survived all the persecutions for 2,000 years. how long will the european institutions turn their heads and wash their hands of their sin like pontius pilate? i think it's time to say it here in this room: enough is enough.
madam speaker, al-shabaab is just one of the terrorist organizations that terrorizes people around the world today and of course like all terrorist organizations they carefully choose their targets, targets of terror, killing, targets of crime. so, of course, it's a deliberate, carefully chosen and all-inclusive campus to kill young people, to kill man, to kill hope, to kill the perspective of a country. to somehow make it clear that we have the power of arms and here europe should say that there is no power of arms, no religious conflicts, no clash of civilizations and we do not agree to religious wars. that must be our message and i believe that this parliament will also send that message to the world.
madam president, the deliberate destruction of key historical sites by isis and the destruction of cultural heritage is a war crime. cultural heritage is the reflection of the soul of a people, the most intimate that is found in us, the beauty that we show to the world. destroying heritage is an attack on a people's cultural identity and history. isis promotes a culture of death and oppresses christians and everything christian, including monuments, mausoleums, tombs, books, wooden manuscripts. in syria and iraq, hundreds of sites have been destroyed. cultural heritage is disappearing and being illegally resold. it's a loss to civilization all over the world. we were just talking about the persecution and killing of christians in the face of genocide. we're talking about destroying the cultural assets that christians have created over the centuries. measures are proposed to stop the trafficking of these cultural heritage. but i'm curious what the commission and the council will do to stop isis. it's time to deal with the cause, not just deal with the consequences.
member of the commission, on behalf of the vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy.– madam president, the government of the maldives has taken important steps to enact legislation against domestic violence, human trafficking, the right to information, as well as improving social security, education and health. the european union strongly welcomes these measures. but these gains risk being undermined if the government does not take urgent remedial action to restore the health of its democracy and the sanctity of key democratic principles on which that democracy is founded. the maldives are a fragile and young democracy. since the adoption of the new constitution and the introduction of multiparty elections in 2008, progress has been uneven. notably, there was a disputed and controversial ‘transfer of power’ in february 2012. the ramifications of those events continue to undermine the possibilities for durable progress in the maldives. the arrest of former president nasheed on 22 february this year has exacerbated tensions. mr nasheed was arrested, on charges under the terrorism act, for the alleged kidnapping of the chief justice of the criminal court in 2012. eu heads of missions and the ambassadors of norway and switzerland in colombo issued a statement expressing their concerns about both the arrest and the conduct of the first hearing, which took place without any legal representation. following his conviction and sentencing to 13 years’ imprisonment on 13 march 2015, the european union issued a further statement, raising serious questions about due process of law and the risks of undermining people’s trust in the independence of the judiciary. these statements highlighted the importance of respect for democratic principles, the constitution, the rule of law, due legal process and the independence of the judiciary. i want to take this opportunity to emphasise and reiterate the importance of those principles. these are founding principles of the european union. we remain fully committed to them and convinced of their importance in realising peoples’ legitimate aspirations to democracy throughout the world. the people of the maldives are no different. it is vital that the government takes action now to demonstrate its commitment to the values of freedom of expression and assembly. ensuring that the opposition are able to conduct their activities without harassment by the state is critical to the state of democracy in the maldives. likewise, independent bodies such as the human rights commission and the elections commission have important roles in maintaining democracy. they should be allowed to undertake their constitutionally-mandated roles without fear of sanctions. a free media also has an essential role to play in enabling public scrutiny of the government. the government should seek to remove legal restrictions on the media’s ability to legitimately report and ensure that any attacks on the media are properly and thoroughly investigated and the culprits brought to justice. the vice-president/high representative has welcomed the request from the government of the maldives to send an observer to any appeal by mr nasheed. the vice-president/high representative has offered to send a legal expert, not only to examine the nasheed case, but also to review legislation, the procedures and practices of the judiciary and implementation of the new penal code. we hope this will enable those areas where the respect for rule of law can be enhanced to be highlighted, in line with the stipulations of the 2008 constitution and other relevant laws. on this basis, the maldivian authorities and the european union will have a clear basis for further work to best protect the rule of law in the maldives. these are not idle concerns. already there is evidence that islamic extremists are actively aiming to recruit disaffected maldivians to the nihilism of the jihadist cause. the european union wants to help the maldivian authorities address the underlying causes of radicalisation. but real progress will inevitably depend principally on the government and its prompt and ongoing action to ensure that the political system in the maldives is as healthy as possible.
madam president, when we talk about the maldives, for most people in europe the first image that comes to mind is probably a tourist paradise on earth. however, the local population lives far from such idyll and sees a much darker reality where democratic standards are plummeting. the recent sentencing of the first democratically elected and now former president of the maldives, mohamed nasheed, to 13 years in prison raises serious and justified doubts about the rule of law and institutions in the maldives. only the trial went ahead with numerous objections from un officials. without entering into the guilt or innocence of former president nasheed, because that's not our job, we must insist on the right to a fair trial. in 2008, the eu played a key role in the maldives' democratic transition process, when it pushed hard for democratic elections to end 30 years of dictatorship. but while the international community's attention was elsewhere, in 2012, the first democratically elected president nasheed resigned in unclear circumstances. the current president and the current government have not continued the process of democratization, but have unfortunately turned to some autocratic tendencies, and seem to have approached islamic extremist groups. the eu must therefore once again demonstrate its determination to support the democratisation of the country, and i hereby call on the high representative and the foreign service to use all available diplomatic tools to achieve this goal.
madam president, europe has done a lot for the maldives in many different ways, in economic terms, in cultural terms, but above all in political terms. when we talk about what we know, that the new constitution of 2008 opened a new page in the history of this island country, we are also talking about what europe has done for this country. politically, democracy was adopted, but it proved to be relatively short-lived. so i'm not here to talk about whether the current leadership is more sympathetic to china or more sympathetic to islam or more sympathetic to i don't know who, but i'm here to talk about first of all that the former president has the right to a fair trial, has the right to have a lawyer, has the right to have a doctor and to ensure that such a person who led the maldives, who led the democratic process, in cooperation and with us, it should be said openly, has the right to the protection of all his human rights.
member of the commission, on behalf of the vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy.– madam president, i would like to thank the members for this debate that has so clearly expressed support for the democratic process and the respect of the rule of law in the maldives. allow me to conclude this debate by saying that we will continue to monitor closely the situation in the maldives. the european external action service and the european delegation in sri lanka accredited to the maldives will remain in regular contact with the maldivian authorities, other political actors and civil society there. we expect the government of the maldives to accept the political and legal offers of the european union. the european union legal expert would give the european union and the republic of the maldives the opportunity to start a dialogue on the state of the judiciary. the european union will continue to pay close attention to the issue of islamic radicalisation, which is currently at the centre of the european agenda. the european union will remain committed to help the maldives and the maldivians build an open and resilient democracy which respects fundamental rights.
president-in-office of the council.– madam president, last year was an important year for albania’s path towards european integration. the council, in its conclusions of december 2014, welcomed the progress made by albania, which led to the granting of candidate status in june 2014. i believe that the status of a candidate country will give additional impetus to albania’s reform agenda and to further progress on the country’s european path. i would like to underline the fact that the political will to move forward on crucial reform issues cannot come from the european union; rather, it must come from the albanian government, political leaders and broader society. the council broadly shares many of the views expressed in your draft resolution. it noted the positive steps taken by albania in the fight against organised crime, with an intensification of law enforcement activities, and towards the reform of its judiciary. however, along much the same lines as parliament, the council also noted that important challenges still lie ahead. the council remains committed to the principle that the opening of accession negotiations would be considered by the european council, in line with established practice, once the commission had assessed that albania has achieved the necessary degree of compliance with the membership criteria. in order to open accession negotiations, albania would now need to do its part. let me remind you of five areas where albania is invited to intensify its reform efforts and to act decisively to address these key priorities. we underline in particular the need for albania: first, to continue the reform of public administration with a view to enhancing its professional capacity and impartiality; second, to pursue a comprehensive reform of its judiciary to reinforce its independence and efficiency through an inclusive process and in close consultation with the venice commission; third, to develop a coherent policy in the fight against corruption; fourth, to continue its efforts in the fight against organised crime, including against drug cultivation and trafficking; fifth, to take effective legislative and policy measures to reinforce the protection of human rights and anti-discrimination policies, including the equal treatment of all minorities, as well as to implement property rights. finally, albania needs to urgently address the identified shortcomings concerning freedom of expression and the media, and particularly to strengthen the independence of the media regulatory authority and the public service broadcaster. the council also expects the albanian authorities to ensure sustained implementation of the reforms already undertaken. i have now listed five key messages that the eu awaits from the albanian authorities. allow me now to mention additional essential elements where more work needs to be done: political dialogue, economic reforms and regional cooperation. as regards political dialogue, constructive and sustainable cooperation between the government and the opposition on eu-related reforms is vital. it is the shared responsibility of both government and opposition to ensure that political debate takes place primarily in parliament and to contribute to creating the conditions for its proper functioning. in this regard, we welcome the european parliament’s engagement in the re-establishment of the political dialogue in the parliament of albania. it is important that albanian citizens understand what the european union is about, but it is important also that they understand the government’s actions in bringing their country closer to the union. therefore, we urge albania to establish a national council for european integration, bringing together all stakeholders, which should further consolidate the nationwide consensus on eu integration. as regards economic reforms, albania should continue its efforts to increase competitiveness, to improve the business and investment environment, to achieve fiscal consolidation and to address high unemployment and the high level of informality in the economy. regional cooperation is an essential part of the eu integration process. good neighbourly relations will strengthen the country’s ability to deliver security and prosperity to its people. here i have to note the positive commitment by albania in developing regional cooperation by participating in numerous regional initiatives, such as the south-east europe cooperation process and the regional cooperation council, as well as by strengthening bilateral relations with countries of the western balkan region. likewise, the council is pleased with albania’s consistent alignment with the eu’s common foreign and security policy. the council is determined to continue its engagement with albania. we are looking forward to the next eu-albania stabilisation and association council scheduled for three weeks from now. it will be an opportunity to review the progress achieved and discuss the challenges that lie ahead. meeting these challenges will not be an easy task, but we have strong faith in albania’s ability to deliver. let me assure you that the eu is ready to support this reform process and support the people of albania in achieving a prosperous and secure future. in conclusion, i would like to express my gratitude for the excellent work that the european parliament rapporteur on albania, mr knut fleckenstein, has carried out. i am looking forward to interesting discussions.
member of the commission.– madam president, i would like to thank parliament and the rapporteur, mr fleckenstein, for this well-balanced report, which acknowledges the progress albania has made on its path to european integration. the commission welcomes the findings and recommendations, which are much in line with our assessment in the 2014 progress report. last june, albania was granted the status of a candidate country. this meant new, higher responsibilities to deliver solid and sustainable results to fulfil each of the key priorities for reform. the most recent high level dialogue on the key priorities took place on 24 march in tirana, co-chaired by commissioner hahn and prime minister rama. the commission welcomed the progress made by albania, notably as regards public administration reform and the initial steps taken in the area of the judiciary and the fight against organised crime. it also noted with satisfaction that the albanian authorities have a firm commitment to, and clear understanding of, the way forward. to support the process, joint working groups on the key priorities have been set up by the commission and the albanian authorities to help identify concrete reform steps. let me mention some areas where action is required and which are all covered in the report debated today. first, it is important that albania pursue comprehensive, inclusive and consistent judicial reform, both for the rule of law and for the business environment. second, there is a need for a serious and coherent policy in the fight against organised crime and corruption, with decisive action leading to proactive and efficient investigations, prosecutions and final convictions. third, it is essential to continue enhancing the efficiency and independence of public administration. developing a professional, merit-based and depoliticised civil service is key for the sustainable implementation of reforms. the persistent confrontational political climate damages albania’s image and may hold back the reform process. let me underline the fact that the eu integration process needs to be inclusive. the recent decision to establish a national council for european integration should help in this regard. the commission shares the view expressed in the report that both the ruling majority and the opposition have a shared responsibility towards albanian citizens to continue with a constructive political dialogue in parliament. the political agreement that put an end to the parliamentary boycott by the opposition last december should be fully implemented. additionally, let me stress that albania has also made progress and shown its clear reform potential in the field of economic governance. the government has adopted a solid public financial management reform that should help substantially improve fiscal performance. it has also taken concrete steps to ensure financial sustainability in the electricity sector. this should be followed up by further reforms in energy policy. i would also like to commend albania’s firm commitment to the connectivity agenda. finally the commission welcomes the fact that the report commends albania’s positive engagement in regional cooperation. this engagement and albania’s 100% alignment with the eu’s common foreign and security policy positions are strong assets for the country on its european union path. thank you for your attention and i look forward to the debate on this important report.
the question he raised by raising his blue card. you were talking about political dialogue. you are a man of great experience and i know you led our parliament delegation in the earlier summit with albania. you were talking about political dialogue. i was recently vice-chairman of our delegation to albania with the president, mrs macovei. i really don't see the possibility of political dialogue. do you really see it and how do you think we can help to bring about a political dialogue because i really want to see all the balkan countries in this parliament?
madam president, mr commissioner, mr mimica, i thank my colleague mr fleckenstein for the preparation of the 2014 albanian progress report, as well as all the shadow rapporteurs who worked on this document, which we have discussed twice in the committee on foreign affairs. the key message that i think we need to send today to the political parties in albania, to the government, but also to the opposition, is a message of dialogue, a message of political maturity, a message of recognition of the moment in which albania as a candidate country since june last year is in and the importance of the image of albania in the european institutions, but also to the member states in terms of the context and the general mood in the enlargement process. therefore, i believe that strengthening the rule of law, fighting corruption and strengthening public administration and a peaceful not only transition of power, but also continuous dialogue without boycotting the work of parliament should be the albania that will be accepted in the dynamic european path in the years ahead.
madam president, i want to see all the countries of the western balkans in the european union as soon as possible and i want to have colleagues from those countries in this parliament as soon as possible. but as we move forward with our last meeting of the representatives of the albanian parliament and this parliament, i had the honour of being together with mrs macovei and mrs schlein in the delegation in tirana, it will not be so easy. there may even be a will for political reform, but there is not much for political dialogue and political culture. we have to talk about it here and we have to send a message to our friends in the albanian parliament that they cannot talk to us the way they talked to us last time in tirana. maybe they can with someone, but not with me and i will no longer be in that delegation because that is not how you can talk to the members of the european parliament. in any event, i welcome the stability that albania brings to regional politics in the balkans.
on behalf of the alde club. madam president, mr mimica, mrs lukashevic, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your support. and i, of course, on behalf of the alde group, welcome the new approach of the european union to bosnia and herzegovina, which is reflected in this resolution, in the decisions of the council of the european union and in the enhanced activities of the european commission. i would also like to thank mr predi for the quality of the report and the good cooperation of the political groups in producing it. i also welcome the imminent entry into force of the stabilisation and association agreement. but i think it's important to note that in this demanding business, we're really just at the beginning of the journey. after the written obligations, there are the specific tasks, the bodies that are to carry out those tasks and, of course, the most difficult task, which is just the implementation of those tasks. bosnia and herzegovina is in a very difficult and unenviable situation. it is, as the resolution itself emphasizes, a dysfunctional and very complicated state. it's about the economic crisis and poverty. these include frequent government blockades, the abandonment of the assemblies of bosnia and herzegovina and threats to leave the country itself. it also concerns latent terrorist threats and occasional terrorist attacks throughout bosnia and herzegovina. since bosnia and herzegovina is important in itself, and is particularly important for the stability of the western balkans, we must work particularly hard to ensure that all that is written, well written, in this resolution of ours is actually implemented.
the question he raised by raising his blue card. mr. scholtes, thank you very much for accepting the blue card. i would like to ask you, since you have made it clear that bosnia and herzegovina needs help and that bosnia and herzegovina needs investment in the environment. i am very familiar with the situation in slavonski brod and at the mouth of the neretva river, where we have a great deal of air pollution in slavonski brod, and on the other hand a great deal of pollution in the neretva, which of course flows into the adriatic sea. do you think that the european union should protect the interests of croatia in this case by investing in environmental protection in bosnia and herzegovina?
madam president, the debate on the progress report on bosnia and herzegovina coincides with the final phase of the formation of the authorities in bosnia and herzegovina after last year's elections, but also with the clear expectations of the european union regarding their acceptance of european standards. i welcome the entry into force of the stabilisation and association agreement with bosnia and herzegovina, as it will be a double stress test both for the new approach of the european union and for bosnia and herzegovina's readiness to take advantage of it. the creation of the european affairs coordination body is only the first such sharp turn. however, to think only about the general progress of bosnia and herzegovina, while ignoring the concrete problems of the constituent peoples or other communities in that country, is the same as supporting the continuation of the pretense of reform in a country that unfortunately becomes synonymous with long-standing internal political blockades and economic and social stagnation. i hope that the space for the current state of affairs is gradually being narrowed. the near future will very soon reveal who all the so-called veto groups are opposed to the inevitable and profound changes in bosnia and herzegovina.
madam president, commissioner mimica, ladies and gentlemen of the latvian presidency, first of all i would like to thank my colleague, mr predi, for the quality of the report he has prepared and for the resolution we are going to adopt tomorrow. i agree with a number of speakers who said today that the new approach of the european union's policy towards bosnia and herzegovina, which the european parliament called for last year in our february resolution, is essentially a qualitative response to turn the european processes, to put economic issues, social issues, effective coordination of european affairs at all levels, including county level, in the foreground and to implement this written statement adopted by the new institutions of bosnia and herzegovina through the implementation of the stabilisation and association agreement. however, it is also important to take account of the constitutional structure of bosnia and herzegovina and to put constitutional reforms on the agenda in due course, on the basis of the key principles of decentralisation, subsidiarity, legitimate representation and the principles of federalism. only in this way will we be able to ensure the equality of the constituent peoples and all other citizens of bosnia and herzegovina. let's not forget that. i see that in some political groups there is a tendency to forget this very sophisticated and sensitive structure of bosnia and herzegovina, and last year we recognized the tendencies of secessionism in republika srpska, which was confirmed by this declaration from novi sarajevo, or east sarajevo, last week adopted by the snsd. we must also condemn the crime in zvornik, and the fact that unfortunately there are foreign fighters from bosnia and herzegovina who are going to the middle east, and the fight against terrorism must be one of our priorities.
madam president, with this resolution the european parliament has emphasized what the commission has once again failed to emphasize, namely the need to ensure the equality of all three constituent peoples. i believe that we must follow the path we have set out and insist on the principle of federalism as a counterweight to the growing centralism of the bosnian political elites and the ever-present separatism in republika srpska. the creation of a stable federal bosnia and herzegovina in which the political rights of all peoples and citizens are respected is a prerequisite for emerging from the catastrophic economic situation. how to expect growth in a country where the right to run public companies is divided by national key and where the minister is not the most qualified man for that department, but the one whose blood cells match the current arrangement. solving the national question will solve or at least enable the solution of economic problems and enormous social injustices. this may seem out of time and space in a europe that long ago resolved such ambiguities, but it is simply a fact.
madam president, i want to thank mr predi for a very balanced report and for very clear messages. it is clear that constitutional reform is necessary and it is clear that it should rest on the principles of decentralisation, subsidiarity and federalism. but the constitutionality of croats, bosniaks and serbs must never be questioned. it also mentions the establishment of rtv channels in all three official languages. i particularly emphasize the need to establish a channel in croatian. it encourages a new approach of the european union, a new british-german approach that talks about economic and social reforms, freedom of the media, education and therefore this statement binds all leaders. it also encourages the stabilisation and association agreement which will soon enter into force, and the fact that after last year's october elections, the croats finally have a legitimate representative. so i hope we're going in the right direction, that we're gradually creating a framework for changing the election law, but also daytona. i also want to condemn the terrorist attacks that have taken place in the zvornik in recent days and i want to believe that this is just a sporadic incident.
madam president, i thank rapporteur predi for accepting my amendments, in particular the reference calling on the authorities of bosnia and herzegovina to comply with the european union's environmental legislation in relation to the problems of crossborder pollution resulting from the operation of the bosanski brod refinery. i also thank him for accepting the amendment, and the report includes a reference calling on bosnia and herzegovina to respect international conventions relating to the protection of the neretva and trebišnjica rivers. i am in favour of a european path for bosnia and herzegovina, which will necessarily require reforms. not only economic, but also political, which implies constitutional changes to achieve the equality of the three constituent peoples, which is unfortunately not the case today. there is ongoing discrimination against croats in bih and their human rights are violated in particular in the territory of the republika srpska entity and many municipalities of the federation of bih. croats must have the right to return to their homes, they must have the opportunity to be educated in their own language and have a croatian-language tv channel. i welcome the adoption of the resolution and the clear message of support that has been sent to bosnia and herzegovina on its european path.
member of the commission.– mr president, i wish to thank the rapporteur, mr bettini, and the committee on international trade (inta) for their constructive approach to the proposal, which aims to prolong the grant of unilateral trade preferences to the western balkans region until 31 december 2020. these preferences are given in addition to those provided for under the stabilisation and association agreement. the regulation, once adopted, will make the grant of trade preferences to the western balkans region conditional upon the respect of a human rights clause in line with eu practice in other trade policy instruments. it will also provide for a technical adjustment regarding montenegro’s access to the additional global quota for wine imports. the european union is very committed to the region, and bosnia and herzegovina in particular, as is illustrated by the fact that the council adopted, on 21 april, a decision concluding the stabilisation and association agreement with bosnia and herzegovina. this agreement will enter into force on 1 june this year. the commission hopes that the new authorities of bosnia and herzegovina will, in the light of recent political developments, be able to agree on adapting trade concessions under the stabilisation and association agreement so as to take into account the preferential traditional trade between bosnia and herzegovina and croatia as the eu’s newest member state. hence, bosnia and herzegovina will continue to benefit from these additional preferences. any potential suspension of preferences for bosnia and herzegovina cannot, in any event, be seen as a sanction, but as an incentive to adopt our stabilisation and association agreement taking into account the new reality of eu enlargement. the commission looks forward to the start of trilogues so that the trade preferences to the western balkan region can be extended before the end of this year. thank you for your attention and for the debate which will follow.
on behalf of the ppe group.– mr president, i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr bettini, for his good work and the openness he has shown to working together with all the political groups in this legislative act. the ppe group will support it. we think it is important that the unilateral trade measures will be extended to all the countries in the western balkans, provided of course that they meet certain conditions. it is an important support for their economies, for the recovery of their economies and for overall political stability. in return we are, of course, asking for some conditions to be met. for example, it is important that human rights are respected and account is taken of the traditional trade with all the member states, including the newest member of the european union, croatia. all the countries in the western balkans have done so. i hope – and i am confident – that bosnia and herzegovina will do so by the end of this year so that the unilateral trade measures can also be extended for this country.
on behalf of the alde club. mr president, mr commissioner mimica, ladies and gentlemen, first of all i would like to thank mr bettini for his good cooperation and good resolution. and of course on behalf of the alde group i welcome all three dimensions of the change in this regulation. the commission has also taken the view that the new rules on the free movement of goods and services should be applied to all goods and services, including those which are not subject to the customs duties. the second measure to amend this regulation is to link trade preferences to respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms. this is standard eu policy and i certainly think it is good that the commission proposal is complemented by the fact that the delegated acts that the commission makes in such cases are subject to confirmation by the european council and the european parliament. because there are no mechanisms in place to implement the suspension of trade preferences in the event of human rights violations. i regret that the positive wording proposed by the foreign affairs committee in terms of respect for human rights, rather than the absence of violations, was not included in the final draft of the document. and i welcome the suspension of the benefits for bosnia and herzegovina, which i hope will not happen. these are the usual and standard measures of the european union, these are the measures that other countries have already taken. it is not a matter of special privileges for croatia, it is a matter of privileges for the whole european union, so all countries of the european union can benefit from these possible privileges, especially those that traditionally trade with bosnia and herzegovina, namely slovenia and austria. in any case, i hope once again that the suspension of these benefits to bosnia and herzegovina will not happen.
mr. president, i would like to thank my colleague bettini for his dedicated work and his good cooperation. here are some facts. in the last budget period, bosnia and herzegovina received eur 660 million in financial assistance from the european union. and in the first 6 months of membership alone, croatia lost 220 million euros because of bosnia and herzegovina's refusal to adjust its ssp. as a former cefta member, croatia adapted its ssp in 2004 following the accession of slovenia and hungary to the european union. the commission therefore concludes that the measures in question constitute state aid within the meaning of article 107 (1) of the treaty. all other cefta members have already adapted their ssp to croatia's accession to the european union. the commission's proposed measures are above all a political message that the path of european integration carries with it certain rights, but also obligations. the commitments that the leaders of bosnia and herzegovina irrevocably assumed in february by signing a written declaration which stated, among other things, that they would, i quote, "increase the efficiency of the institutions so that they can adopt the acquis communautaire and other obligations arising from the process of accession to the european union". this is a great opportunity for the new authorities in bosnia and herzegovina to prove their commitment to the european path.
mr. president, we are here to help bosnia and herzegovina. we're not here to blackmail anyone, we're here to help bosnia and herzegovina. and that is because of the discussions we had earlier and this discussion and the indication that trade preference is something that bosnia and herzegovina will certainly have, but it is also the fact that mr mimica is a commissioner of the european commission from croatia and that mr rados and i are sitting here as representatives from croatia. accordingly, croatia is a member of the european union. and the message in that regard is quite clear. we are here to help bosnia and herzegovina, especially we who are from croatia, who are neighbours of bosnia and herzegovina, but of course what is the minimum is to respect the rule of law, and that is the rule of law. in this case, i think our message is very correct and very clear.
president-in-office of the council.– mr president, this year we have to embrace change and develop a truly universal and ambitious post-2015 development agenda, aimed at poverty eradication and sustainable development in its three dimensions – economic, social and environmental. the discussion on mobilising all means of implementation, both financial and non-financial, for the post-2015 agenda, is currently accelerating both in the eu and globally. the third conference on financing for development to be held in addis ababa in july is a key trigger of this acceleration. the council notes the work done by parliament in this respect, notably the draft report on financing for development. we are looking forward to the adoption of the report during the may part-session to further inform our work. the eu has consistently accounted for more than half of global official development assistance (oda). the european union has made ambitious oda commitments, including collectively committing to 0.7 % of gni by 2015 and to 0.15-0.20 % of gni to the least developed countries. we are not shying away from our commitments and are determined to fulfil them, even if we have not yet been able to fully deliver due to an unexpected – and major – global financial and economic crisis. we stand ready to play our part. we fully recognise the importance of this element as a success factor for the negotiations in addis ababa and beyond. let me remind you that no other major development donor has made an explicit commitment or signalled readiness to reach the 0.7 % target or to significantly increase their aid levels. let me now turn to the preparation of the addis ababa conference. the latest oecd figures on oda for 2014 show that the eu and its member states have increased their aid substantially since the last period. at this stage the council is preparing the formal eu position for the conference in addis ababa, where examining the conditions and the timing for the eu to recommit collectively on oda is a key element. a first round of encouraging discussions was held at the informal meeting of ministers of development on 12 march 2015. the next discussion is to be held by the development council on 26 may 2015 when the council will adopt council conclusions. any recommitment on oda targets has important budgetary implications that require political buy-in across institutions, and constituencies are to be considered carefully by member states. this process needs to be closely coordinated with the economic, social and environmental constituencies. the council agrees that oda is important for the success of the addis ababa, new york and paris conferences. for the addis ababa conference we need a well-balanced package with oda as a part. oda still remains important for those most in need, and should be channelled accordingly. yet it is evident that oda is decreasing in relative importance to other potential resources for sustainable development. issues such as trade, remittances, support for domestic resource mobilisation and science, technology and innovation, to name just a few, can be much more interesting for a whole range of partner countries. to conclude, let me stress again the council’s position on shared responsibility. we will only be able to implement an ambitious post-2015 agenda if all countries take the necessary steps in terms of political action and resource mobilisation, and contribute meaningfully to achieving the agenda. i want to thank ms mcavan for her question and for giving me the opportunity to intervene. to reiterate, 2015 is a unique opportunity to arrive at a truly universal and sustainable development agenda, and we should use all avenues to communicate about the importance of the addis ababa, new york and paris events. i am looking forward to your views.
member of the commission.– mr president, let me thank the chair of the committee on development (deve), ms mcavan, for putting this question forward. it focuses on official development assistance (oda) which is a very important and catalytic aspect of the means of implementation for the post-2015 agenda. despite the difficult budgetary environment faced by eu member states, i am pleased that collective eu oda in 2014 reached eur 58 billion, which is the highest ever absolute level. the percentage of the eu’s gross national income (gni) spent as oda in 2014 was 0.42 %. this is significantly higher than that of other oecd donors whose oda averaged 0.28 % of gni. whilst this clearly falls short of our 0.7 % target, the eu collectively has consistently accounted for about half of the global oda as reported by the oecd. i think we can be proud of this achievement, especially during a period of serious budgetary constraints. as the commission communication of 5 february sets out, the commission believes that the eu should maintain its collective commitment to achieving the un target of providing 0.7 % of gni as oda and should also commit to the 0.15 % to 0.20 % oda target for least developed countries. the commission will continue to call for a recommitment of these existing targets. a series of meetings with member states are planned in order to facilitate agreement. however, it is ultimately for member states to reach consensus on the issue and to put in place national plans for meeting these targets. i was encouraged by the informal council meeting of the development ministers in march, where the willingness of member states to reach a common position and to uphold the eu’s place as world leader in development cooperation was very strong. i therefore hope that the council will be able to adopt clear and compelling conclusions on the global partnership next month – including on the eu’s recommitment to the oda targets. i believe this commitment matters. i fully agree with ms mcavan that an eu commitment to oda will be important for the european union’s development credibility as well as for the success of the international conferences in addis ababa, new york and paris this year. at the same time, we must recognise that to finance such a far-reaching global agenda, the eu’s efforts alone will not be enough. if we aspire to a truly ambitious outcome from addis ababa and new york, i believe a commitment to reach the 0.7 % target should be made by all developed countries. to ensure the diversity and volume of resources that will be needed by the new sustainable development goals (sdg), upper middle-income countries and emerging economies should also commit themselves to increasing their financial contributions to the development of the poorest countries. i would also like to note that oda remains an important element in the overall financing available for developing countries, and in particular countries most in need. at the same time, we have to envisage a more strategic and functional role for oda by using it in a catalytic manner to engage and leverage other financial and non-financial means of implementation that would suffice to cover such a broad new sdg agenda. a few days ago, i was in washington to attend the spring meetings of the international monetary fund and the world bank group. the discussions revealed a growing shared understanding that official development assistance must be increasingly used so as to crowd in other funding sources. agreement was clear that we need a comprehensive financial package, comprising aid, investments and domestic resources, especially effective taxation systems; and that the key factor for achieving the sustainable development goals is not only money, but also an enhancing framework of good policies and good governance. with these first considerations in mind i look forward to today’s discussion.
on behalf of the ppe club. mr president, mr commissioner, in today's debate on the tragedy in the mediterranean, everyone agreed that we must step up development aid. i'd like us all to remember that debate when the council discusses allocating 0.7% of domestic income to official development assistance. the european parliament and the european commission have already spoken about the 0.7% allocation. now the council is on the move. of course, it must also be said that official development assistance is not enough to eradicate extreme poverty. it is clear that we need a greater and better mobilization of domestic resources. for example, if developing countries were to increase their tax collection by just 1%, they would have twice the amount of official development assistance coming from the eu, the us or other developed countries. it is also necessary to stop the illegal flow of money that some corrupt elites take from their countries to secure bank accounts in the west. but all this does not mean, i repeat, does not mean that the member states of the european union can give up official development assistance of 0.7% of their domestic income. what we need to do is to ask other developed countries, but also emerging economies, to get more involved in development finance, and not just for the purpose of buying influence, but to promote all the development goals as prepared by the un working group. (the president agreed to answer the question raised by the raising of the blue card (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure))
the question he raised by raising his blue card. thank you for accepting the blue card. i want to ask you if you agree with me that the european union, for example in addis ababa and elsewhere in the forums that follow, should invite other rich countries to join us in this great effort that we are making to help the most needy, and do you think that this aid should also be relatively targeted, because we are constantly talking about problems that are emerging and coming to our borders, as we heard this morning, and do you think that this aid should really be somehow, at least in part, very targeted?
answer the question posed by raising the blue card. i also agree with what the committee's chairman linda mcavan said that the 0.7% gdp target gives us credibility that we can ask other developed countries to do the same. my colleague lolo sánchez and i were at a meeting in washington organized by the world bank with parliamentarians from all over the world, and we were able to convey that message in a credible way because parliament took that position. of course, our development aid must be based on values, on respect and promotion of human rights, and we also talked about that. when one government may not want to do that, we always have room to act and work with civil society.
mr president, there are high expectations from the juncker fund, there are high expectations from the european investment bank, especially when we talk about smes and when we talk about youth employment. mr president of the eib, i would like to address you as rapporteur of this parliament for the adriatic and ionian strategy of the european union and to state our clear need for the european investment bank to be involved in the important projects that will be implemented in the future in the balkans, both in the member states and in those in which the candidate countries are involved. i am thinking in particular of the adriatic-ionian corridor, which includes the motorway from trieste to athens and which includes gas pipelines and other infrastructure projects of importance to that part of europe. i also want to speak specifically about energy policy, in the context of which it is precisely in the balkans that we have the possibility of decarbonisation, of diversification of the european union's energy policy and we have the possibility of energy independence, especially in hydropower potentials.
madam chair, i expect this extraordinary theme at expo 2015 on feeding the world's population to go two ways. the first direction should be to solve this absurdity that we have so much food that we throw away, that we have the absurdity of great poverty, even in europe, and especially in africa and other continents, and we have the absurdity of food that is thrown away. innovative agriculture, big investments and investments in agriculture and research into innovative agriculture and all the things that can feed this planet, i think it's extremely important and that expo has to answer this absurdity and these questions of how to have more efficient and sustainable agriculture. the second important theme for me is the role of smes, the role of traditional agriculture, the role of local products in the diet of the population, the protection of local products and all that we know to be part of our european culinary gastronomic heritage.
on behalf of the alde club. madam president, i want to express my deep concern about all that is happening in the province of lecce in apulia and i want to express my regret for the farmers and for the fact that there will probably be a major cutting of the centenary olive trees, and with it a change of landscape, but also what is the economy of those people who live off of it. i want them to be helped in the form of compensation and on behalf of the european union. what i want to draw attention to in particular is that xyllela fastidiosa has already been on the vine in the territory of kosovo, so it has been on both sides of the adriatic, and as rapporteur for the adriatic-ionian strategy i express additional concern for olive growing, and especially for mandarins in the neretva area, and i believe that we should seriously consider everything that is happening today in italy and in the way, and here i ask italian friends, to check the nurseries in italy, the nurseries of all plants, especially olives because croatia is largely supplied from nurseries from italy.
madam president, we are discussing this issue today because of a very dangerous infection affecting the olive sector. the most dangerous introduced into the european union is certainly xylella fastidiosa. in southern italy, the consequences are dramatic. 11 million infected trees will be cut down. since the disease is transmitted by insects, olive trees in neighboring croatia and other mediterranean countries are at risk. it's already been spotted on a coffee plantation in france, and we all hope it's not the cause of the olive drying in istria. the olive fly disease already caused a production failure in croatia last year, as production amounted to only 10-15 % of the average annual production. with the olive fly's leftover pups and the spread of peacock eye disease, the forecast is just as bad for this year. i therefore call on the commission to approve additional funds in addition to effective import control measures to at least partially offset the huge financial losses suffered by olive growers and oil producers last year. olive growing is much more than just an agricultural activity, it is the foundation of millenary cultures. let's protect it today so we can last longer.
madam president, this is a serious threat that is happening in the south of italy. what particularly concerns me is this measure that we heard from the commissioner, which is the felling of trees. so i understand that it's one of the measures, but it's also a threat to the landscape, a threat to the landscape. i think we should focus on research, as you said, and funding from horizon, or horizon. in croatia, there are 45 000 olive farming households, and they are also at risk from some other diseases. however, there is a risk that this bacterium xylella can be transmitted to the long adriatic coast. so it is really necessary to take all precautions. but my question to the commission is: how will you help small producers to recover these costs, which will be incurred by cutting? you mentioned rural development, but what is the fund from which small producers in italy at this moment, and tomorrow perhaps elsewhere, because both the vine and the citrus are in danger, how will you help to recover the costs?
madam president, in recent years, european olive growers have been going through a turbulent period. from record harvests to droughts, floods and various other scourges. the emergence of a disease caused by the bacterium xylella fastidiosa in italy and the possibility of its spread to olive trees in neighboring countries are causing concern. the european commission says that it is working with state and local authorities, but it is not clear what preventive and control measures are being taken so that olive growers can respond in time to the disease. i ask the european commission and the council to find a way to adequately compensate olive growers. only then will we be sure that everyone will take all the necessary precautions to prevent further spread of the disease. fortunately, there is no incidence of this disease in croatia. croatian olive trees, some of which are more than 1,000 years old, are a historical and cultural heritage, a world heritage. surrounded by clear sea and raw bare rock, croatian olive growers have been producing extra virgin olive oil for centuries. we want to preserve such production, and i therefore call for strict phytosanitary measures to be applied and for information to be given to citizens in order to prevent the transmission of diseases by plant movements between member states.
written. ‒ i voted for the resolution on the alcohol strategy because i want to support sensitivity to excessive and harmful alcohol consumption. at the same time, i would like to point out that the importance of the culture of wine and other beverages in the european tradition should not be underestimated. a one-sided, purely negative view of the consumption of wine and other well-known excellent european alcoholic beverages is not welcome.
written. ‒ europe leads in terms of alcohol consumption. alcohol is seen as a dietary supplement, a mood enhancer, often without widespread awareness of the consequences of excessive consumption. and it's the third leading cause of death. excessive drinking leads to domestic and social violence, and the cost of treating alcoholism and the illnesses it causes is skyrocketing. of particular concern are the reports of underage students drinking alcohol. although the law prohibits alcohol for those under 18, as many as 85 percent of students in croatia admit to drinking alcohol. the cheapest alcohol is consumed most, because price is the most common limiting factor, not legal provisions. for all these sad reasons, i join the calls on the commission to adopt a comprehensive strategy on alcohol as soon as possible. so a different approach to alcohol consumption, clear labelling of the ingredients and calorie values of alcoholic beverages and the cooperation of all stakeholders in informing citizens, especially the youngest generations. unlike many others, the problem of alcoholism can be successfully prevented!
written. ‒ i support the alcohol strategy because alcohol abuse of this kind is a risk factor in today's society, which, given the many harmful effects of alcohol, leads to addiction, fatal health conditions, deaths, accidents and violence. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the strategy and will continue to monitor the implementation of the strategy. as craft alcohol production is the backbone of tourism in local communities, exposing visitors of different social profiles, from pregnant women, minors to people prone to risky diseases, it is important to emphasise the need for labelling of alcoholic products to provide a reflection on the various negatives. in general, very little is known about products used for the production of alcoholic beverages, in particular high alcohol premixes, and given the nature of the risk, comprehensive information related to the energy values of the ingredients is necessary. efforts should be increased to educate the general public about the harmful effects and consumption of alcohol, bearing in mind the health impact of moderate consumption with a balanced lifestyle. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament and the council adopt a common position on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending regulation (ec) no 1235/2008 on the common organisation of the market in fruit and vegetables (oj l 347, 20.12.2013, p.
written. ‒ in some member states, alcohol abuse is the second leading cause of lifestyle-related disease and alcohol dependence is a risk factor for more than 60 chronic diseases, such as alcoholic liver disease, chronic alcoholic pancreatitis and almost all other gastrointestinal diseases, cancer, diabetes, cardiovascular disease, obesity, fetal alcohol spectrum disorders and neuropsychiatric disorders such as alcohol dependence. it is therefore important that member states step up their efforts to inform citizens about the cultural values of responsible drinking, the positive health effects of moderate drinking and the compatibility of such drinking with a healthy and balanced lifestyle. it is also important to take into account the importance of this industry in europe, and i therefore support the continuation of the dialogue with all social actors on the alcohol strategy.
written. harmful alcohol use remains the leading cause of death and disease in europe, but also in croatia, while alcoholism and addiction are linked to domestic violence or absenteeism from work. sadly, the abuse of alcoholic beverages has increased. today, 10 litres of alcohol are consumed per capita in the eu, which is worrying. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament and the council should be consulted on the draft directive on the protection of consumers in the event of a dispute between a member state and a third country. i support the motion for a resolution on the alcohol strategy, but while noting that we must be careful in distinguishing between alcoholic products, with the winegrowers in mind first and foremost, we must not jeopardise the competitiveness of european wines in view of the increasing presence of wines from other continents. i therefore advocate that as much autonomy as possible be retained for individual decision-making by the member states, taking into account the cultural, civilizational and traditional diversity of the 28 member states of the union.
written. ‒ the tragic death of a textile factory worker in bangladesh is a warning about the conditions of work there. it is necessary to use all the instruments in the negotiations with these countries to ensure greater safety for workers.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the joint motion for a resolution on the second anniversary of the rana plaza building collapse and the progress of the sustainability pact for bangladesh, as it confirms the interest of the european union and its member states as well as other actors in the assistance that bangladesh needs and expects from us. the tragic events of two years ago with the rana plaza building fire and collapse, which caused the death of a large number of people, have not yet been cured. the responsibility for this event lies with the european side and we must therefore participate in the rehabilitation of all the consequences of this tragedy. for these reasons, i believe that this report is a good reflection of the situation and needs and i want to support it as an expression of european solidarity and responsibility.
written. ‒ the biggest disaster in the textile industry was the rana plaza building collapse in bangladesh two years ago, in which 1,134 people lost their lives and hundreds were injured. it is only when accidents like these happen that a loud debate about the problems of exploitation of the workforce and working conditions begins. it is sad that the survivors and families of those killed in the rana plaza building collapse have not yet been fully compensated. partially to blame is italian textile company benetton, which has just agreed to pay $1.1 million to the compensation fund, as one of a number of companies with manufacturing operations in rana plaza. this disaster should serve as a warning to all and an incentive to respect workers' rights and ensure safe working conditions. the commission also found that the chinese exporting producers had a significant market share in the union market. the purpose of the resolution, which i supported, is to pay tribute to the victims of this tragedy and to remind everyone that timely concern for working conditions could have prevented the disaster. the resolution supports all efforts and initiatives aimed at improving occupational safety and health, working conditions, respect for workers' rights and the promotion of responsible business conduct in industry.
written. ‒ i express my condolences to all the victims who lost their lives in the rana plaza factory fire as a sad reminder of the extremely poor state of human and labour rights in bangladesh and other developing countries. i regret that this tragedy has not led to any significant improvement in the situation, and i share the concern over reports that newly formed unions have suffered discrimination, layoffs and retaliation. widespread discrimination against trade unions continues to prevail in bangladesh, highlighted by extensive documented acts of retaliation against trade union workers as well as acts of physical violence against trade union leaders and activists, including the murder of trade union leader aminul islam. i call on the government of bangladesh to arrest and prosecute the perpetrators of criminal attacks on trade union members to end impunity for such crimes and to send a message that violence against trade union members will not be tolerated. i also welcome the launch of the flagship eu initiative on responsible supply chain management in the ready-to-wear sector in the framework of the european year of development 2015, as a direct consequence of citizens' concerns about the tragic events.
written. ‒ marking the second anniversary of the rana plaza factory disaster where cheap products were produced for a number of international companies and where 1,100 workers died, the issue of inhumane working conditions in bangladesh has been reopened. it's alarming that most of the companies involved in the rann plaza case have denied their involvement. minimum payments to a fund set up to raise funds to help the families of the victims have further distanced them from addressing the problem of poor working conditions in bangladesh. it is therefore of the utmost importance that measures to control working conditions are taken as a matter of urgency in order to prevent similar accidents.
‒ on 24 april 2013, an eight-storey rana plaza building housing several garment factories collapsed in savar, outside dhaka, killing more than 1,100 people and injuring about 2,500. the rana plaza building collapse is the largest industrial disaster in the history of bangladesh and the accident that caused the collapse of the structure with the highest number of fatalities in recent history. i would like to express my condolences to all the injured and disabled and to the families of the victims. i also call on the bangladeshi authorities to continue in line with the initial positive reform trend in order to meet the targets of adequate representation of the 4 million workers in the ready-to-wear sector. i believe that these losses could have been avoided by better occupational safety systems and therefore i support the report.
written. i support the drafting of a resolution on the demolition of the rana plaza building and sustainable development planning. a tragedy that has caused the deaths of more than 1,100 people cannot be ignored. the rana plaza building collapse is one of the worst industrial disasters in modern bangladesh history. the most important industry in bangladesh, rmg, is responsible for employing a large number of the population and thus contributes to poverty reduction and has also contributed to reducing gender inequality in society. the eba's economic initiative has also played a major role in bangladesh, as it has contributed to improving the material conditions of many people, especially women. the commission also notes that the government of bangladesh has not provided any information on the number of sampled companies in the union. the proposed resolution should improve cooperation and exchange of information and systematic reporting on factory inspections and consequently increase safety at work.
written. ‒ i welcome the fact that member states have immediately convened an extraordinary summit to find common solutions in response to the crisis situation in the mediterranean. yet, i find it regrettable that the measures taken are still largely inadequate to stop the loss of life. i call on all participating member states to swiftly and fully transpose and effectively implement the common european asylum system, thereby guaranteeing common european standards within the framework of existing legislation. the commission should also be able to provide information on the progress of the implementation of the union's external action in the field of migration and asylum, including on the progress of the union's external action in the field of migration and asylum.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the joint motion for a resolution on the recent tragedies in the mediterranean and on migration and asylum policy in the eu, despite having certain reservations. i am not satisfied with the outcome of the european council because i think that more radical measures should have been taken. i believe that strong and effective surveillance of all vessels should be established in the mediterranean because it is technically absolutely possible. it is necessary to implement a broad international action of all actors involved in the conflicts in north africa and the middle east and to involve the un in the resolution of this tragic situation. more solidarity is also needed among member states to spread the burden of the refugees in distress more evenly.
written. ‒ this year alone, 1,800 refugees have died in the mediterranean, and over the last 20 years, more than 20,000 people have died trying to reach europe. the numbers of dead and dying are horrifying, and the ways in which they die are inhumane. although the union leaders at the emergency summit decided to increase the budget for the surveillance and rescue operation at sea "triton" and now have nine million euros at their disposal, our concern should also be how to help those who come to land. the resolution's main message is to draw attention to the worrying state of basic human rights and democracy in african and asian countries and the inadequate fight against trafficking in human beings. the causes of the problems need to be addressed in those countries. we need better coordination, consistency to send a unified message and a fair sharing of responsibility among member states in efforts to help refugees. i supported a resolution to encourage a strong response to the tragic events in the mediterranean and the situation of immigrants. in this context, the republic of croatia plans to send a military ship to italy in may to help with coastal surveillance and rescue of refugees in the mediterranean. although we are a landlocked country, we have no refugee problem, so we are glad to be able to help in this way.
written. - first of all, i would like to express my sorrow at the new great tragedy - the sinking of a ship on 19 april, 50 nautical miles off the coast of libya, with hundreds of people who were seeking a better future in europe. it is a significant problem that is not new, but it is becoming more serious in both intensity and scope. for example, unhcr and the international organization for migration (iom) estimate that in 2014, 219,000 migrants crossed the mediterranean, almost four times more than the previous year and as many as ten times more than in 2012. i therefore welcome the measures agreed at the extraordinary meeting of the european council. the commission should also be able to provide additional information to the member states on the progress of the implementation of the union's external borders policy. despite certain setbacks, the european asylum support office (easo) and the european agency for the management of operational cooperation at the external borders (frontex) also need to be further strengthened financially and operationally. although the southern european countries are the most affected by the migratory pressure, the migration problem is crucial for the whole of the european union. it therefore requires a single approach based on solidarity and responsibility among member states. the commission should also be able to provide information on the progress made in the implementation of the union's external borders policy, including on the progress made in the implementation of the union's external borders policy.
in writing. ‒ the latest tragedy in the mediterranean calls for a renewed focus on the eu’s external and development policies and on building inclusive and effective institutions in countries that are today in complete chaos or ruled by corrupt elites which bring such misery to their citizens that many of them prefer to risk their lives on a boat rather than stay in their oppressed homelands. these desperate people are ready to give their life savings to smugglers and traffickers in order to reach the shores of europe because they are certain that there is no future for them in their countries, which are torn apart by corruption and violence. i strongly support this resolution, which emphasises that the root causes of violence and underdevelopment need to be addressed in the countries of origin in order to stem the flow of refugees and economic migrants. the resolution also points out that the main priorities of development cooperation with countries of origin should be: significantly enhancing governance structures by building effective and inclusive public institutions; ensuring capacity-building in third-country asylum systems; establishing the rule of law, and fighting endemic corruption at all levels; as well as promoting human rights and further democracy.
written. i supported this proposal which regulates the area of migration and asylum for refugees from african countries and other parts of the world affected by war. we were particularly shocked by the recent tragedy in the mediterranean, when more than 700 people lost their lives trying to reach the european mainland in search of a better life, including many women and children. i think that the motto of this debate "je suis un migrant/je suis un réfugié" in the european democracy council in strasbourg applies to all of us, since the wave of migration in the mediterranean is a topic that transcends party interests, because the tragedies that occur every day cannot leave anyone indifferent, and we know well that the causes of migration are different from those of an economic nature to human trafficking, but are mainly the result of ethnic conflicts and the emergence of the so-called "islamic state". i must stress the need for humanitarian visas and the principle of solidarity, whereby member states should share the burden of refugees equally by adopting quotas based on the criteria of population and economic situation in the member states.
written. ‒ i would like to take this opportunity to point out that bosnia and herzegovina has not yet adapted its acts resulting from cefta to the accession of the republic of croatia to the eu. according to the data at my disposal, croatia has lost over eur 220 million since joining the union as a result. i support the measures in this report because i believe that the commission must protect the interests of its member state which is suffering direct damage due to the non-compliance of bih with its international obligations.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the suspension of the extraordinary trade measures in respect of bosnia and herzegovina, although for some it is more a technical issue than a substantive one, it is nevertheless important for the republic of croatia and our neighbour bosnia and herzegovina and i would like to explain my vote in favour of it. it is essential that the european commission pursues a coherent policy towards the western balkan countries, including in the case of trade measures. after the republic of croatia's accession to the european union, its membership of cefta ceased and it is logical that this new situation should be legally and commercially sanctioned also when it comes to other countries. we expect bosnia and herzegovina to recognise its interest and that the preferential system will continue until 2020 and not be terminated as early as 1 january 2015.
written. ‒ in the last budget period alone, bih received eur 660 million in eu financial assistance, while in the first 6 months of membership alone, croatia lost eur 220 million due to bih's refusal to adjust its ssp. as a former cefta member, croatia had to adapt its ssp in 2004 following the accession of slovenia and hungary to the eu. this is a standard practice of adapting trade agreements based on the principle of preserving traditional trade and all other cefta members have already adapted their ssp to croatian accession to the eu. by signing a written declaration in february, bih's political leaders committed themselves to 'increasing the efficiency of the institutions in order to be able to adopt the eu acquis communautaire and other obligations arising from the eu accession process'. i am glad that all the institutions of the european union share the same view on this issue, and i really hope that there will be an adjustment of the cap of bosnia and herzegovina before the end of the year, which will make the suspension automatically pointless.
written. ‒ the problem with bosnia and herzegovina is that it is still the only remaining country in south-eastern europe that has not signed the treaty amendment after croatia's accession to the european union. for the above reason, croatia does not yet have the same trade relations with bih as other eu member states. i therefore supported the suspension of the extraordinary trade measures in respect of bosnia and herzegovina. the eu and bosnia and herzegovina should continue to cooperate in the implementation of the stabilisation and association agreement and the interim agreement. i express concern about the political disunity of bosnia and herzegovina over its accession to the european union. i believe it is crucial to steer bih towards reforms to bring it closer to eu standards, and thus ensure a better future for its citizens and cooperation for all countries in the region.
written. ‒ as shadow rapporteur for the epp group, i fully support the extension of the autonomous trade preferences for the western balkan countries, which are a useful tool for economic assistance, but certainly an important tool in integrating countries on their way to full membership of the european family. the further opening of the community market to imports from the western balkan countries contributes significantly to the political and economic stabilisation of the region. however, since bosnia and herzegovina has not accepted the adjustment of trade preferences granted under the interim agreement to take into account traditional trade between croatia and bosnia and herzegovina under the central european free trade agreement, in the event that the european union and bosnia and herzegovina do not sign and apply an agreement adjusting trade preferences under the stabilisation and association agreement and the interim agreement by the time this regulation is adopted, the preferences granted to bosnia and herzegovina should be suspended as from 1 january 2016. the commission should be able to conclude that the measures provided for in this regulation are in accordance with the opinion of the committee established by article 15 of regulation (eu) no 182/2011. therefore, i urge the authorities of bosnia and herzegovina and the commission to redouble their efforts to find a solution in accordance with the interim agreement by 1 january 2016, and i sincerely hope that the measures will not be implemented.
written. ‒ i support the report on the introduction of exceptional trade measures for countries and territories participating in or associated with the eu stabilisation and association process and the suspension of its application with regard to bosnia and herzegovina. the trade privileges enjoyed by bosnia and herzegovina with croatia are a matter of tradition and very close relations. therefore, as long as such measures are warnings and guidelines for further progress by bosnia and herzegovina, support will not be lacking. a healthy relationship between a transition state and a union state where many have followed a similar integration path can only be beneficial if the advice is taken into account and the necessary efforts are made. as a representative from croatia who has faced challenges of human rights violations herself over the past 20 years, i call on authorities at all levels to come together and find a consensus to pave the way for reforms that will ultimately spur economic growth and ensure equal rights for all ethnic groups and individuals. as bosnia and herzegovina has not yet implemented the adjustment of trade preferences under the interim agreement, i believe that the provisions of this report should be taken as an indication that a compromise can indeed be found if there is a strong political will, and to continue promoting tolerance and coexistence in the bosnian society.
written. - i am deeply saddened by the loss of life at garissa university and hereby express my sincere condolences to the families of the victims of this brutal attack. the european parliament fully supports the people of kenya in their determination to fight all forms of terrorism in their country and to defend their human rights, in particular the right to education. the extremists have attacked the students because they know that their greatest enemy is knowledge. i call on the kenyan government, opposition leaders and religious leaders to address the historical injustices of marginalization, regional divisions within the country and institutional discrimination and to ensure that counter-terrorism operations are targeted only at perpetrators and not at broader ethnic and religious communities.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution on the latest events in kenya, because the tragedy that has struck kenya is truly enormous. the innocent young victims of the massacre by the terrorist group al-shabaab and all their loved ones who are grieving are thus shown the european parliament's gratitude. it's the least we could do for the great pain of the kenyan people. i expect the international community to do everything possible to stop the killing of innocent people.
written. the murder of 147 students, christian believers, at the university of garissa in kenya three days before easter is just one in a series of attacks on christians. the refugee issue we are discussing in parliament these days is also linked to the persecution of christians. muslim refugees threw 12 catholic refugees overboard after a religious dispute on a boat. all member states are deeply concerned about the atmosphere of intolerance and violence, in particular by terrorist groups, and i support all initiatives to promote community dialogue and mutual respect. i supported a resolution expressing sympathy to the families of all the victims and condemning all forms of discrimination on religious grounds. attacks on the christian community violate a fundamental human right - the right to freedom of thought and religion.
written. - christians are the most persecuted group of people in the world today. they are persecuted in more than 60 countries around the world. in the past year, the number of christians who died for their faith has doubled, and this shameful trend continues. it is estimated that each year more than 150,000 christians worldwide lose their lives. the main reason for the persecution of christians today in most countries is islamic extremism. the brutal murder of 147 kenyan university students is a continuation of the terror against christians, and it must be stopped. condemning the kenyan massacre and persecution of all religious communities, i supported this resolution warning against the violation of religious freedoms. freedom of religion is a fundamental human right that our society rests on and that we must fight to preserve. religious identity is an integral part of a person's identity and everyone without exception must be allowed to practice their religion. any violence in the name of religion must be condemned unreservedly, or we are participating in it. i believe that the european parliament must recognise christians as a persecuted religious community and clearly condemn the violence against them for their faith in jesus christ, which is increasing every day, and take effective steps to combat islamic extremism.
written. ‒ i fully support the kenyan people in their determination to fight all forms of terrorism in their country and to defend their human rights, especially the right to education. the kenyan government needs to take responsibility and respond to al-shabaab's violence and its root causes. i regret the delayed response of the police and welcome the immediate consequences imposed by the kenyan authorities. freedom of religion is a fundamental right and any violence or discrimination based on religion should be condemned in the strongest terms. the eu should maintain its support to amisom and continue to finance eutm somalia in order to ensure adequate financial and human resources to support the work of the eusr for the horn of africa and direct access to the cfsp and the eu's development and humanitarian policy structures.
written. ‒ i support the european parliament resolution on the persecution of christians worldwide in connection with the killing of students in kenya by the islamist terrorist group al-shabaab. i strongly condemn the terrorist attack on 4 april 2015 by a somali islamist group on garissa university in north-eastern kenya, which after a 15-hour siege ended with 148 people killed, mostly christian students. i condemn the targeted terrorist attacks on educational institutions and facilities to undermine the education and dignity of all citizens and to create distrust and division among communities. in recent months, the world has witnessed a significant increase in attacks on religious minorities, especially christians, who are the daily victims of killings, beatings or arrests by jihadist terrorists, mostly in some parts of the arab world. as a member of the european parliament, i confirm and support the inalienable right of all religious and ethnic minorities living in iraq and syria, including christians, to continue to live in their historical and traditional territories in a dignified, equal and safe manner. i call on the commission, the international community and organisations such as the un to take a proactive and preventive approach to prevent any attempt to violate the right to freedom of religion or belief. i firmly believe that race, religion, nationality or orientation are irrelevant when it comes to human rights.
written. ‒ i supported the european parliament resolution on the persecution of christians worldwide in connection with the killing of students in kenya by the terrorist group al-shabaab. according to witnesses, the terrorists were just picking out christians for execution. but kenya is no exception when it comes to attacks on christians. 70% of christians in iraq have been forced to leave their homes. syria's christian population has fallen from 30% to less than 10% in less than 100 years. christians are the most persecuted religious minority in the world today and it is particularly important to me that the resolution includes amendments by the european people's party which, however, in this resolution put the greatest emphasis on the persecution of christians as a religious group.
written. i support the motion for a resolution of the european parliament on the persecution of christians in the world and the response to the killings of students in kenya. recently, we have witnessed a sharp increase in extremism and terrorism. attacks on religious minorities, particularly christians, in some parts of the arab world is a serious problem that we need to approach in a systematic and concerted way. every year, more than 150,000 christians are killed. but recent events have shown that extreme islamism and terrorist attacks are spreading rapidly to the rest of the world, and especially to europe. in the immediate vicinity of croatia is bosnia and herzegovina where the movement of extreme islamism has taken on alarming proportions. the basis of the initial response to islamist violence and threats are the tools that will stop the financing of terrorist acts and cut off the supply of weapons to a terrorist organization. the terrorist group al-shabaab killed at least 147 students, mostly christians, in a siege of a university in kenya. the terrorist group al-shabab always conducts strikes, destroying humanitarian convoys, religious buildings and gatherings. i therefore welcome the proposed resolution condemning the recent attacks on christian communities in various countries and expressing solidarity with the families of the victims. it is also worth noting that freedom of religion or belief is violated in 82 of the 196 countries.
written. the historical legacy of mesopotamian and levantine cultures has survived thousands of years of time and human influence, but it has not survived the folly and selfishness of the so-called islamic state. the damage caused by their rampage cannot be estimated in millions or billions of dollars because it represents a loss of civilization. i believe that the deliberate destruction of cultural and artistic heritage, as is currently happening in iraq and syria, should be prosecuted as war crimes and crimes against humanity.
written. - wars have always been the result of brutality, not only killing people, but also destroying symbols of nations and civilizations. this is true of the recent conflicts in the middle east. the priceless cultural treasures that have been created over the centuries in asia and africa are often the target of mad wars. the recent destruction of world cultural heritage by isis and daesh only confirms their ruthlessness in warfare. the judgment delivered by the european parliament is part of my deep convictions and that is why i voted in favour of this resolution.
written. ‒ since the beginning of the conflict in syria and iraq, this is just one in a series of barbaric acts by the extremist group isis. more than 300 cultural, archaeological and religious sites in the conflict area have been destroyed. videos have also been released showing members of terrorist groups destroying religious and national symbols in the city of nimrud, one of the cities often called the cradle of civilization. isis' actions challenge the international community and show that they have no respect for the history of other cultures. unesco director irina bokova said that "the deliberate destruction of cultural heritage is a war crime". even more tragically, isis is using this crime to fund new attacks by selling the monument, which puts this issue in the broader context of counterterrorism. i supported the resolution on the destruction of cultural sites by the terrorist group isis, for which there is no justification. it's just another form of attack on the identity of a culture and a people. it calls on all religious and political leaders to rise up against the barbarism of the islamic state on the heritage of humanity.
written. ‒ i supported this resolution which sends a clear signal to the competent institutions to take all necessary actions to prevent the cultural genocide carried out by the group isis. recently, we have witnessed an intensification of the deliberate and targeted destruction of archaeological, religious and cultural sites in syria and iraq by extremist groups affiliated with the islamic state. the destruction of cultural heritage is unacceptable and therefore because cultural heritage is part of the identity and history of a people, it bears witness to the emergence and development of a civilization. i strongly condemn the actions of isis, which irrevocably destroyed the priceless treasures of ancient civilizations and impoverished our modern society. i call on all those responsible to take appropriate measures at political level to put an end to the illicit trade in cultural goods from the territories of syria and iraq, and to implement appropriate security measures at the external borders of the union to prevent the smuggling of cultural goods. i also call on the european commission to take concrete action to prevent isis from continuing its terrorist and vandal activities.
‒ the european union has ratified the convention on the protection and promotion of the diversity of cultural expressions, adopted on 20 october 2005, which is the first international instrument to recognise the dual economic and cultural nature of cultural goods and therefore 'should not be treated as having a purely commercial value'. i am pleased that on 1 march 2014, thanks to european union funding, unesco, together with other strategic partners, launched a three-year project entitled 'urgent protection of syrian heritage', which aims primarily at ensuring the urgent protection of syrian cultural heritage. while the illicit trafficking in cultural goods is still the third most important area of illicit trafficking after drug and arms trafficking, and this illicit trafficking is dominated by organised criminal networks, and since the current national and international mechanisms lack the appropriate equipment and support to tackle this problem, it is appalling that in addition, cultural heritage of immeasurable value is being completely destroyed. i join calls to support the unesco campaign #unite4heritage by launching an information campaign focusing on iraq and syria to raise awareness of the importance of their cultural heritage, the way that looted heritage is used to finance terrorist activities and the possible penalties for the illegal importation of cultural property from these countries or from third countries, and i support this resolution.
written. ‒ i thank the chair of the committee on culture and education for raising this important issue of the destruction of cultural sites by the terrorist group isis/daesh. the destruction and looting of museums and religious, historical, archaeological and cultural sites in syria and iraq, along with the recording and posting of material on the internet, demonstrates the deliberate "scorched earth" war strategy systematically implemented by the terrorist group isis. in addition to the psychological dimension of this war strategy aimed at destabilising the population and destroying identities, the terrorist group isis is also partly financed by the proceeds of the sale of archaeological artefacts, and it is therefore crucial to launch concrete measures to combat this kind of barbarism. i therefore support the european parliament resolution calling for a concrete strategy to combat this type of organised crime, for better cooperation between member states in the fight against the illicit trafficking of cultural property from war zones, for the strengthening of eurojust and europol units and for more effective use of existing international instruments. as a representative from croatia, i am particularly sensitive to this issue because of the homeland war in croatia from 1991 to 1995, during which the same strategy of the aggressors was implemented in terms of destroying and removing every trace of the existence of croatian culture, people and religion.
written. ‒ i supported the european parliament resolution on the destruction of cultural sites by the isis/daesh group. recently, numerous archaeological, religious and cultural sites in syria and iraq have been targeted for destruction by extremist groups linked in particular to the so-called islamic state in iraq and syria, and the deliberate destruction of cultural heritage for the purpose of 'cultural cleansing' has been strongly condemned. furthermore, it was important to call on the commission, the high representative, the eu and its member states to implement more effective security measures at the external borders of the eu in order to prevent the smuggling of cultural goods from syria and iraq into the union, given that the illicit trade in cultural goods is now the third largest area of illicit trafficking after drug and arms trafficking, and which finances the illicit activities of isis.
written. ‒ i support the motion for a resolution on the attack by isis/daesh on the bardo museum in tunis and the deliberate destruction of the mosul museum in iraq and of historical sites in syria. such actions take on a much larger scale than just cultural tragedies, they could be called cultural cleansing. the strategy and goal of terrorists is to destabilize populations and destroy their identity by destroying what belongs to the common heritage of humanity. according to the unesco convention on the protection and promotion of the diversity of cultural expressions, signed 10 years ago, this common heritage should be "protected and safeguarded for the benefit of all".
written. ‒ i express my concern at the deepening political crisis in the maldives and call on all parties to refrain from any action that could further exacerbate the crisis. security forces must urgently end violence against peaceful protesters and start protecting them from violent groups. furthermore, i would like to draw attention to the serious irregularities in the trial of former president mohamed nasheed and call on all parties to cooperate in order to remedy the negative consequences of these irregularities and thus ensure justice in a fair and transparent trial.
written. - i voted in favour of the resolution on the maldives because it points to the tense situation in that country caused by the very suspicious circumstances surrounding the arrest of the former president of the maldives. the statement of intent is logical, because the european parliament expects a fair trial, the right to access a lawyer and the possibility of appealing for every person, and even more so in this case. we also expect the indian authorities to be involved in this situation which could destabilize the situation in this island nation in the long run.
written. ‒ the resolution on the situation in the maldives points to problems with the constitutional order and to a lack of respect for the hard-won democracy in the country. the union has participated in the process of democratization in the maldives, but has not continued with strong enough oversight, resulting in the creation of authoritarian rule and violation of the constitution. the first democratically elected, now former president mohamed nasheed, has been sentenced to 13 years in prison without proper legal representation and with his human rights being violated. media freedom is under threat, the rule of law is gone, institutions are politicized, and the influence of islamists is growing. i support the resolution which points to the need for european union intervention to restore constitutional order, democracy and respect for human rights and international agreements in the maldives.
written. ‒ the human rights situation in the maldives has deteriorated significantly in recent months. bearing in mind the problems and difficulties that various countries of the world occasionally experience, as well as the experiences of suffering and pain that the croatian people went through in the early 1990s in the aggression against croatia and the bloody war that followed, i cannot be indifferent when i see signs of dangerous events occurring in any corner of the world. i support this resolution in the hope that it will be seen by the competent authorities as an incentive to act responsibly in preserving the constitutional rights and freedoms of their inhabitants. the abolition of the moratorium on the death penalty, including in cases involving juvenile offenders, will certainly not help. i find this unacceptable and i call on my colleagues and the government of the maldives to maintain the existing moratorium. it is clear that the maldives faces even greater challenges brought about by climate change and that it is important to focus efforts on common goals and the well-being of society as a whole. the deterioration of human rights and the conflicts between them do not help.
written. ‒ i share the concern over the deepening political crisis in the maldives and join calls on all parties to refrain from any action that could further exacerbate the crisis and to act in the spirit of democracy and the rule of law. we need an immediate end to the violence against peaceful protesters. the security forces are required to protect peaceful demonstrators from violent groups as part of their duties. the maldives needs a credible and inclusive political process involving all democratic forces in order to restore and maintain stability in the maldives and to return the country to the path of democratic transition, which is why it is of the utmost importance to put an end to the intimidation of political opponents. it is high time to end political interference in the maldivian justice system and to depoliticize the judiciary. the maldives needs urgent reforms to guarantee the independence and impartiality of the maldivian judiciary in order to rebuild domestic and international confidence in its work without further delay.
written. ‒ the sentencing of former maldivian president mohamed nasheed and the denial of his right to adequate legal representation at court hearings and to access to trial records necessary for the timely submission of an appeal raises an important question of judicial independence in the maldives. the right to a fair trial and due process is a matter of the rule of law and democracy which the european union insists on in all segments of its relations with the states of the world, and in accordance with the provisions of the international covenant on civil and political rights. in view of the frequent reports of violations of the fundamental principles of democracy, it is important to ensure the conditions for political pluralism, protection of human rights, democracy, freedom of the media, freedom of speech and assembly. it is important that the european union, in cooperation with other international actors, closely monitor the process of democratic transition in the maldives and use all available political and diplomatic means to influence the adoption of concrete measures to respect and protect human rights in the country. in the run-up to the un human rights council's universal periodic review working group meeting in geneva in may this year, the european parliament points to the alarming situation in the human rights and democracy sector in the maldives, calls for the establishment of the rule of law, and calls for the democratisation of society, and i therefore support this european parliament resolution.
written. ‒ the recent sentencing of the first democratically elected and now former president of the maldives, mohamed nasheed, to 13 years in prison raises serious and justified doubts about the rule of law and institutions in the maldives. only the trial went ahead with numerous objections from un officials. without entering into the guilt or innocence of former president nasheed, we must insist on the right to a fair trial. in 2008, the eu played a key role in the maldives' democratic transition process, when it pushed hard for democratic elections to end 30 years of dictatorship. but while the international community's attention was elsewhere, in 2012, the first democratically elected president nasheed resigned in unclear circumstances. the current president and the current government have not continued the process of democratization, but have turned to some autocratic tendencies, and seem to have approached islamic extremist groups. i therefore supported this resolution by which the european parliament encourages the vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union and the european external action service to continue to monitor closely the political situation in the maldives and to take a proactive role in the eu's bilateral relations with the country and in international multilateral fora in order to achieve stability, strengthen democracy and the rule of law and guarantee respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms in the country.
written. ‒ i supported the european parliament's motion for a resolution on the situation in the maldives because of a series of events taking place in that country. namely, former maldives president mohamed nasheed was sentenced to 13 years in prison on terrorism charges for the arrest of the then chief justice of the criminal court in january 2012. it is worrying that the trial procedure was not in line with national and international standards. the lack of political independence and education in the maldivian judiciary has undermined the credibility of the judicial system and opposition politicians and protesters are being sentenced under suspicious circumstances. activists and opposition politicians are intimidated and there is a high level of sex trafficking in the country. calls on the maldivian authorities to ensure the right to a fair trial, due process and the independence of the judiciary for all citizens in accordance with the provisions of the international covenant on civil and political rights, and calls for an immediate end to political interference in the maldivian judicial system; we remind the government of the maldives that the constitution of that country guarantees the right to protest.
written. ‒ i strongly support albania's european path and believe that the country is on the right track in the pre-accession process. albania has made enviable progress in eu accession in recent years, and was therefore granted candidate status in june 2014, but much more effort is needed on the albanian side to implement the necessary reforms. this applies in particular to the judiciary, the fight against corruption and organised crime and freedom of the media. such substantial reforms require a broad political consensus and i therefore call on all parties to cooperate on the european pathway by country.
written. ‒ albania has made progress as a candidate country for eu membership. however, the tense political and unenviable economic situation in albania is not conducive to the faster progress of the republic of albania. until the political parties in albania find a better way of communicating with each other, especially when it comes to the european union and albania's future membership, rapid progress is not possible. as i believe that the european union has no alternative and as far as the future of albania is concerned, i voted in favour of this resolution.
‒ the republic of albania has made great efforts and in june 2014 was granted candidate status, which is an additional boost on its path towards the european union. of the 12 areas defined as priorities by the european commission, five remain areas where reforms have not yet been implemented. the republic of albania is expected to thoroughly implement the reform of public administration and local self-government as a prerequisite for the implementation of other reforms. further work is needed on education, health, justice and the fight against corruption and organised crime reforms, and work on ensuring fundamental human rights, jobs and media freedom. the resolution welcomes the establishment of joint working groups, which is a step forward in regional cooperation, including cooperation with croatia and the planning of the construction of the adriatic-ionian motorway of 1 100 km. the motorway is important for economic development and for connecting western and central europe with south-eastern europe. i support the republic of albania on its european path and the resolution on its progress. the republic of albania's priority should certainly be not only to fulfil its obligations towards the union, but to achieve economic growth and development and to ensure a better standard of living for its citizens.
written. ‒ i supported the resolution on the 2014 progress report on albania, as albania made significant progress in that year and was granted candidate status. i welcome all the progress made in achieving reforms and the need for the authorities to step up their work on effective sustainable reforms in the five key priorities, in particular on public administration reform, strengthening the judiciary, fighting corruption and organised crime and strengthening the protection and enforcement of human rights. this will require ensuring a constructive and inclusive political dialogue that allows for the adoption and implementation of key reforms. it is important to continue to work on the establishment of the rule of law and judicial reform to ensure the confidence of citizens and the business community in the justice system. the commission should also be able to provide information on the implementation of the union's macro-financial assistance to third countries. serious efforts are needed to combat organised crime and trafficking in human beings and to combat the support for international terrorist activities. although i supported the resolution, i do not support paragraph 22, which goes beyond the competence of the eu because it enters the area of marriage and family regulation, which is the exclusive competence of the member states.
written. ‒ i welcome the efforts of the albanian institutions to strengthen cooperation on the problem of smuggling, but i also stress that more reforms are needed in the fight against organised crime. i hope that these efforts will develop into a genuine political dialogue, which at this moment does not yet exist, because political consensus on the issue of accession to the european union and the joint work of all on it is an absolute prerequisite for a successful process of european integration. i also hope that prime minister rama's recent statements were just an unwarranted coincidence and i want to believe that albania will maintain its constructive position in the region.
written. ‒ i support the resolution on the 2014 progress report on albania, which has made enviable progress in eu accession in recent years and has therefore been granted candidate status. accession to the european union is an inclusive process that belongs to the whole country and all its citizens, and therefore i believe that albania needs a national consensus on a reform plan. albania's constructive relations with its neighbours and its alignment with the eu's external policy are commendable and exemplary. albania has made significant progress in the political criteria, but in order to make better progress towards the opening of accession negotiations, albania will need to make sustained efforts to implement reforms in key areas with a particular focus on public administration and justice reform, the fight against corruption and organised crime and the strengthening of the protection of fundamental human rights. the trend in the fight against drug trafficking and production is commendable, but it is still evident that the fight against organized crime is a major challenge. albania needs to do much more to ensure an independent, efficient and accountable judiciary and better guarantee the independence and freedom of the public media.
written. ‒ albania has made progress towards eu accession in recent years and was therefore granted candidate status in june 2014. the challenges for albania remain and need to be addressed swiftly and effectively in order to make further progress towards eu membership. in particular, there is a need to strengthen the rule of law and reform the judiciary in order to foster the confidence of citizens and the business community in the justice system and to improve the fight against corruption and crime. the commission has also been asked to provide information on the implementation of the reforms in the area of public procurement. i welcome albania's proactive stance in regional and bilateral cooperation, which is important for regional stability, and therefore support the report.
written. ‒ this report highlights the european parliament's unequivocal support for the european perspective of bosnia and herzegovina as a whole and sovereign state. the resumption of the accession process is a positive step forward which must be followed by sincere and deep reform efforts at home. i mean political reform, but also socio-economic reform, because you can't make progress in one without the other. bih will be a successful candidate country when it meets certain institutional conditions and carries out constitutional reforms that will enable it to become an inclusive, efficient and fully functioning state for all its citizens and peoples.
written. ‒ bosnia and herzegovina has opened up a new european perspective following the recent visit of the high representative, mrs mogherini. there was a positive expression of interest and intent by the bosnian politicians during and after the visit of the high representative. we expect that bosnia and herzegovina will finally embark on its european path. all the balkan countries should become members of the european union as a guarantee for the stability of the troubled balkans, and so should bosnia and herzegovina. i voted for this resolution because i believe that it will make bosnia and herzegovina a more stable and secure state.
written. - in a series of disturbing events in bosnia and herzegovina, i would like to highlight two that have occurred in the last week. terrorist attacks and violations of basic human rights have become a daily occurrence in our society, and the very idea of democracy is under threat. my condolences to the family of the policeman killed in the terrorist attack on the zvornik police station. the attack was carried out by a young man of only 24 years of age who belongs to the wahhabi movement. in the context of this attack, croatia, as a neighbour with which bih shares the largest border, strongly supports the territorial integrity of the country and the equality of constituent peoples. the key moment, which gives a positive impetus to the achievement of the ultimate goal, is the signing of the presidency declaration on the new accession of bih to the union in february this year. this declaration enabled the council to adopt a decision on the conclusion of the stabilisation and association agreement, which is due to enter into force on 1 june 2015. i support the resolution on the progress of bosnia and herzegovina, which calls on the union and bosnia and herzegovina to make further efforts to define common political and economic objectives, implement reforms, foster regional cooperation and cooperation with civil society, and address many other issues. the prospect of bih's membership of the european union is of paramount importance for the stability and development of the country.
written. ‒ i welcome the adoption of the resolution on the 2014 progress report of bosnia and herzegovina. the report brings a new opportunity for bih to pursue reforms through a coordinated approach, improve its social and economic situation and call for ensuring the equality of the three constituent peoples. particular attention is required to protect croats who are literally uprooted from the territory of the entity of republika srpska and many municipalities of the federation of bih, and they must be provided with croatian-language education as well as a croatian-language tv channel. the report also calls for a more efficient institutional framework, cooperation and coordination between bih's political leaders, the fight against corruption, politicians' engagement with citizens' needs, and other important priorities for the country. my amendments adopted call on the bih authorities to respect eu environmental legislation on the problems of cross-border air pollution resulting from the operation of the bosanski brod refinery, making this a topic for the first time in such reports. the commission also invited bih to respect international conventions related to the protection of the neretva and trebišnjica rivers due to the possible danger of the upper horizons project, the threat to the supply of drinking water to the population and the irrigation of agricultural land in the neretva and the possible negative impact on the ecosystem of the malostani bay.
written. ‒ the new resolution on bih reflects the eu institutions' changed attitude towards post-election bih. it is no longer just a list of demands and complaints about stagnation in the implementation of reforms, but expresses a clear attitude towards the european perspective of bih, a new approach and a list of priorities that bih as well as every other country currently in the 'waiting room' for the eu must fulfil. i am particularly pleased about the early application of the stabilisation and association agreement between the european union and bih, which enters into force on 1 june. until a coordination mechanism is in place that would allow bih to speak with one voice in communication with brussels, it is difficult to speak about the effects of documents adopted outside bih itself. we cannot support the continuation of the pretense of reform in a country that has unfortunately become synonymous with economic and social stagnation. and bosnia and herzegovina will not be a successful candidate for eu membership until the appropriate institutional conditions are in place, which means upgrading the dayton agreement and ensuring the constitutional equality of all constituent peoples. it is clear that the pattern of behaviour of officials in bih over the last twenty years has not led and is not leading to the desired progress, both domestically and in the international position of bih. the message is clear and i hope it will be heard by those for whom it was intended.
written. ‒ i supported the progress report on bosnia and herzegovina's eu membership in the hope that it would also stimulate the reform processes in bih. the eu has repeatedly stated its unequivocal commitment to the european perspective of bih and its territorial integrity, sovereignty and unity. i expect bosnia and herzegovina to accept and implement, by an accelerated procedure, the adjustments to the trade part of the interim agreement and the stabilisation and association agreement in view of the accession of croatia to the eu, on the basis of traditional trade between these two neighbouring countries. i would emphasise the need for reforms in establishing functional and stable institutions, addressing the very high youth unemployment rate and providing assistance to the population in need following the heavy floods of may 2014. it is also important to implement the judgment of the european court of human rights in the sejdić-finci case, as bih continues to violate its international obligation. unfortunately, the lack of compliance with eu requirements in the areas of agriculture and rural development, food safety, veterinary and phytosanitary policy and fisheries continues to prevent the export of goods of animal origin to the eu. sectoral strategies in areas such as transport, energy and the environment that would cover the whole country are still not aligned, and i believe that they are the precondition for financial assistance.
written. ‒ the eib is an instrument designed to support social cohesion and provide assistance to member states facing social and economic difficulties. all available resources of the member states and the eu, including those of the eib, should be effectively mobilised without delay in order to stimulate and enhance public and private investment, increase competitiveness, restore sustainable and inclusive economic growth and stimulate job and infrastructure creation. this report concludes our support, but i feel it necessary to point out that the eib must do more to make its decision-making process transparent.
written. ‒ i voted for the 2013 report on the european investment bank. the report confirms the eib's role and importance on a european and global scale. the activities carried out by the eib are very important for maintaining the stability of the european economy, but i expect all these activities to be reinforced in synergy with the juncker fund in the coming years. this can make a significant contribution to the faster growth of the european economy and the creation of new jobs.
written. ‒ i am concerned about the significant drop in public and private investment of 18% below 2007 levels and the staggering 35% drop in lending to smes between 2008 and 2013. the eib has been invited to play a key role in financing the investment plan for europe by committing eur 5 billion to establish a new european fund for strategic investments (efsi). the european commission investment plan should encourage, enable and facilitate access to finance in member states and regions with high unemployment and gdp per capita below the eu average. it is therefore important to give priority to projects with european added value and positive cost-benefit analyses with significant innovation potential. i am in favour of supporting projects that could have the maximum impact in terms of creating new jobs, especially those that are in line with the sustainable development framework. i consider it particularly important to provide funding for projects in agriculture and those aimed at ensuring municipal, social and community infrastructure in rural areas.
written. ‒ all available resources of the member states and the eu, including those of the eib, should be effectively mobilised without delay in order to stimulate and enhance public and private investment, increase competitiveness, restore sustainable and inclusive economic growth and foster job and infrastructure creation, in line with the europe 2020 strategy, taking into account that the eib is an instrument designed to support social cohesion and is able to provide valuable assistance to member states facing difficulties in the critical social and economic situation we are facing. the eib is not a commercial bank and should continue to play a key role as a catalyst for financing sound public and private long-term investment, but also to continue to apply best banking practices in order to maintain a very stable capital position, which consequently has a positive impact on lending conditions. the eib should play an important role in the financing of the investment plan for europe by allocating eur 5 billion to establish a new european fund for strategic investments, and i therefore join the calls to the council, the commission and the eib board of governors to duly assess whether the new tasks assigned to the eib under that plan are aligned with the eib's resources. when allocating funds from the new european fund for strategic investments, priority should be given to countries most affected by the financial crisis.
written. ‒ i supported the report on the 2013 annual report of the european investment bank. in particular, i would like to highlight the many untapped opportunities for small and medium-sized enterprises (smes) across the european union that the report refers to. it goes without saying that the eu is in a time of economic crisis, but it should still be stressed that smes are the path to economic recovery. in addition, the commission notes that the commission has not provided any evidence that the credit risk of the banking sector is significantly higher than that of the banking sector. the five-year period from 2008 to 2013 saw a 35% decline in lending to smes, which is an obstacle to the union's economic progress but also to the achievement of the europe 2020 objectives. current european support for smes amounts to €21.9 billion, which allows more than 230 000 smes to be financed. i would also like to stress that the european investment bank should certainly focus its attention on investments that will make it possible to achieve as ambitious a climate target as possible. in this sense, i would certainly point out that this is a real opportunity for croatia, which has a natural predisposition to invest in environmentally sustainable projects.
written. ‒ the economic and financial crisis, together with austerity policies, have seriously undermined the economic growth of many member states, leading to a rapid deterioration in social conditions, a steady increase in inequalities and imbalances between european regions and a failure to achieve the goal of social cohesion and genuine convergence. i call on the commission and the eib to promote the inclusion in their policy areas of investments with clear societal benefits, including increased employment, to encourage measures to reduce unemployment through lending, in particular by focusing on job creation for young people, and to support productive public investment and necessary infrastructure projects, in particular in member states with high unemployment and below average gdp. i welcome the launch of the growth finance initiative (gfi) and recall the importance of providing adequate funding for research and innovation projects and innovative start-ups, and therefore support the report.
written. ‒ i support this resolution because it calls for the inclusion of a female dimension in all policies dealing with food insecurity. further, the resolution calls for improvements in the working and living conditions of rural women in developing countries. it is necessary to define clear objectives in the fight against food waste and in the sustainability of the entire food chain. in conclusion, i believe that education is key to promoting healthy eating habits and the use of traditional and local food products.
written. - i voted for the resolution on the expo 2015 in milan. the theme of this edition of expo is: feed the planet, energy for life! both these issues are crucial to the survival of humanity and in the right way and at the right time this resolution and the expo itself are bringing them to the attention of the world public. i think expo 2015 will be a new impetus for innovative solutions in the food and energy industry that will take into account the need to protect the environment and fight climate change.
‒ the world expo 2015 will be held in milan and will be dedicated to food and environmental protection. expo is visited by over 20 million people and is therefore a great way to represent the country. i'm sorry that this year the republic of croatia will not participate in the exhibition. the european parliament, in its resolution, wants to encourage reflection on the millennium development goals, on the millions of undernourished and hungry people in the world and on the sustainable development of the agricultural and food sectors. i support the resolution to raise awareness and debate on issues important to the existence and healthy life of the people. we should bear in mind that 89 million tonnes of food are wasted in the union every year, and that 870 million people go hungry. we need an international strategy for adequate, healthy and sustainable food consumption and a strong agricultural, rural and fisheries sector and environmental care.
written. ‒ around 1.3 billion tonnes of food, or one third of all food produced on the planet, is thrown away every year worldwide, of which 100 million tonnes are thrown away in the european union. on the other hand, 850 million hungry people are in need of help. it is clear that the problem of hunger is not a food problem but a political one. i signed a written statement to take all necessary action against food waste at every level of the food supply chain, from production to consumption, to make unsold edible food available to the poor and charities before its expiry date. it is necessary to introduce society to agriculture and to properly value local products and specialties. nutrition education needs to be delivered at all levels. it is necessary to support, finance and develop family farms and to put agriculture back on the front line. in the light of the amendment of european legislation regulating the right of member states to decide independently on the introduction of live gmos into the environment, i would like to stress that this right must not be infringed under any circumstances. the natural wealth and quality of european food is recognised worldwide. the release of live gmos into the environment can threaten traditional food production, which is why an initiative has been launched to establish a gmo-free region in the alps and the adriatic.
written. ‒ continuing with the theme of this year's expo, i agree that the key to tackling food insecurity is a strong and sustainable agricultural sector across the eu, a thriving and diverse rural economy, a clean environment and family farms supported by a robust, fairer, internationally sustainable and adequately funded agricultural policy. the commission should also be able to assess the impact of the measures on the environment and the environmentally sustainable use of agricultural land. the commission should be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 264 concerning the establishment of a european system of agricultural markets for the purpose of ensuring the efficient functioning of the internal market and the functioning of the internal market. the current inequalities in the food supply chain threaten the sustainability of food production and calls for greater transparency and fairness in the food supply chain, as well as the elimination of unfair trading practices and other market distortions in order to guarantee fair returns for farmers, fair profits and price setting within the food supply chain and a sustainable agricultural sector that will provide food security. i therefore support this resolution and join the calls for vigorous action to combat land loss and abandonment of marginal agricultural areas in order to ensure food security. rural development is crucial for the economic and social growth of these areas, which is why we need to provide additional support to young farmers.
written. the theme of this year's world expo in milan is that food becomes a right of all people, especially when we have the burning problem of hunger in a world where on the one hand, huge amounts of food are thrown away, and on the other, enjoyed in excess. a common agricultural policy is needed with the aim of sustainable development, a change in dietary habits and a focus on promoting healthy lifestyles. the food problem is a global problem and challenge where, in order to reduce the world's hunger and limited resources, we need to create the conditions for sustainable food production. i therefore believe that a framework and strategy for coordinated action and successful solutions to the food problem are needed. sustainable development policies for food security while changing the consciousness of individuals is the key to success.
‒ the idea of expo 2015 in milan feeding the planet energy for life is that this event can give an important impetus to the debate on improving food production and distribution, addressing the problem of food waste, promoting and developing already existing positive approaches to tackling food insecurity, malnutrition and poor diet, with the need to balance supply and consumption. it is also an opportunity to reflect and discuss different approaches to solving the paradox of a globalised world in which, on the one hand, some 870 million people are undernourished and hungry, while, on the other, some 2.8 million die from health problems related to malnutrition, obesity and overweight, and i therefore supported the report.
written. ‒ nigeria is the most populous and ethnically diverse country in africa, characterised by north-south divisions and severe economic and social inequalities. despite its vast oil reserves and economic potential, nigeria has been extremely unstable in recent years and at one point did not control much of its territory. attacks by the boko haram terrorist group have displaced 1.5 million people in borno, yobe and adamawa states, while more than three million people are suffering the consequences of the insurgency. the situation is serious, but we should welcome the peaceful transition of power after democratic elections were won by the candidate of the opposition party, the all progressives congress, general muhammadu buhari. i call on the president-elect to keep his campaign promises and use all resources to end the violence of boko haram, to restore stability and security throughout the country, and to address the root causes of terrorism.
written. ‒ nigeria is another african country that is suffering the tragic consequences of war conflict in the constant fear of attacks by terrorist groups linked to isis, boko haram. the mass killings and tragedies that have occurred, especially in northern nigeria, call for urgent intervention by the international community. in the hope and belief that this resolution of the european parliament can only help to resolve the situation in nigeria and elsewhere in the world, i have voted in favour of the resolution in question.
written. ‒ nigeria has more than 170 million people as of 2013 and the population is still growing. the problem in nigerian society is regional, religious and social divisions. the country is divided into north and south, and society into extremely rich and extremely poor. i supported the european parliament resolution on the situation in nigeria which supports the commitment of all parties to democracy and the peaceful transition of power after the elections in march this year. the newly elected president is expected to fulfill his campaign promises and devote himself to the fight against violence, and the newly elected government is expected to devote itself to the plan of social and economic development of the northern and southern states and to carry out thorough investigations into cases of human rights violations. the resolution also calls on the commission to take action to combat the spread of the virus and to ensure that the virus is contained in the european union. more than 1.5 million people have been displaced by these attacks, and more than 3 million suffer the consequences.
written. - while the eyes of the world were on france and the terrorist attack on the editorial office of the satirical newspaper charlie hebdo, nigerian boko haram terrorists killed 2,000 people, mostly christians, and the news was completely ignored in the world's media and political circles. the slaughter in nigeria was on the scale of genocide, and many nigerians fled their homes in fear of the terrorists. no one talked about it and no one organized protests, and the numbers are frightening: about 13,000 killed since 2009 - more than half that number in 2014 alone, 1.5 million internally displaced people in nigeria, 155,000 refugees in niger, 37,000 in cameroon and 11,000 in chad. in 2014, boko haram abducted over 200 girls, and in 2015, 400 women and children are missing. despite its natural wealth, nigeria is still one of the most unequal countries in the world. peace and stability in nigeria have been constantly threatened by boko haram since 2009, with the majority of victims being children, women and the elderly. i believe that the high representative must propose concrete measures that the ec will take to protect human rights in nigeria before it is too late.
written. ‒ the current escalation of violence in nigeria, with thousands killed and injured and hundreds of thousands more displaced, is absolutely unacceptable, and i join in expressing my regret at the massacre of innocent men, women and children and my support for the nigerian people in their determination to fight all forms of terrorism in their country. i hope that the president-elect will keep his campaign promises and use all resources to end the violence of boko haram, to restore stability and security throughout the country and to address the root causes of this terrorism, and in particular to act more decisively in the fight against internal corruption, mismanagement and inefficiency in public institutions and the military that have made them incapable of fighting the scourge of boko haram in the north of the country, and to adopt measures to deprive boko haram of sources of illicit income, especially in relation to smuggling and illicit trade. regional cooperation will be of paramount importance in this regard, and i welcome the determination shown by the 13 participating countries at the niamey regional summit on 20 and 21 january 2015. the european union should also fulfil its obligations and provide comprehensive political, development and humanitarian support to nigeria and its people in the fight against the threat posed by boko haram and to ensure the development of that country.
written. ‒ the serious deterioration of the security situation in nigeria over the last two years is worrying. the strengthening of the fundamentalist islamist group boko haram in the north of the country, and in particular in the borno, yobe and adamawa states, is a challenge whose gravity goes beyond the borders of the nigerian state and whose containment is of paramount importance to the european union. the continuing attacks on civilian facilities, churches, villages, the systematic persecution of christians, the still-missing 270 schoolgirls abducted from a school in the city of chiboku a year ago, the september massacre in the city of baga with hundreds of civilians killed, more than 15,000 lives lost, over a million displaced and refugees testify to the urgent need to quell the rebellion. unfortunately, the nigerian military does not appear to have the financial, technical and operational capacity to stop the jihadist group on its own. so there are high expectations for the newly elected president buhari, who will take office on 29 may. in addition to the priority issue of counter-terrorism, the new administration will also have to address seriously the extremely widespread corruption and weak state institutions that prevent the more effective use of development aid and the use of abundant natural resources. building effective administration and state institutions is a prerequisite for ensuring peace, stability and growth.
‒ between 3 and 8 january 2015, the terrorist group boko haram carried out attacks on the nigerian city of baghu and 16 nearby towns and villages, destroying nearly 3,700 structures and killing thousands of people, according to satellite imagery. violence caused by boko haram has claimed more than 22,000 lives since 2009. the attack on bagh was an attack on european values, and boko haram, which is establishing a caliphate in northern nigeria, is becoming a global threat like the jihadists in syria, iraq or libya. i supported this resolution by which parliament strongly condemns the current violence in nigeria, which is taking on increasingly horrific proportions, including a large number of armed and bomb attacks, suicide bombings, sexual slavery and other forms of sexual violence, kidnappings and other forms of violence perpetrated by the terrorist group boko haram, targeting civilian, government and military targets in nigeria, and in which hundreds of thousands of people have been killed, injured or displaced, which could be considered crimes against humanity.
the question he raised by raising his blue card. do you think that keeping ms. savchenko in prison is something that is illegal, something that violates human rights and something that is evidence that she, being imprisoned in moscow, does clearly show that russia has a finger in this case in ukraine?
mr. president, nadia savchenko was captured by pro-russian separatists in eastern ukraine while trying to extract a wounded man from a battlefield. she's currently in a russian prison, on trial for crimes she didn't commit. although russia claims it is not involved in the war in ukraine, the situation with nadia savchenko and the other prisoners is a denial of their allegations. the european parliament also expressed its opinion on the case earlier this year in a resolution on the situation in ukraine, expressly calling for the exchange of all prisoners, including nadia savchenko. to this day, nadia savchenko has not been released from prison. this case of nadija savchenko reminds me of the case of croatian lawyer veljko marić who was kidnapped by the serbian authorities and has been held in prison for 5 years. the serbian authorities are suing veljko marić even though they don't have the authority to do so, just like the russian authorities are suing nadia savchenko even though they don't have the authority to do so. both nadiya savchenko and veljko maric are in poor health. i demand the immediate release of nadia savchenko and veljka maric, because in both cases there are rigged political processes and violations of human rights.
written. we hereby give our clear support to nadia savchenko. as the chairman of the parliamentary committee on ukraine's association with the european union, i express my concern because i believe that in the mock trial, an attempt will be made to severely condemn the person who has become a symbol of resistance in ukraine. the union promoting democracy and human rights, freedom and the rule of law has a duty to continuously integrate respect for these values into all segments of its relations with russia. it is important that the eu, in cooperation with other international actors, use all available political and diplomatic means to secure the release of ukrainian heroin.
mr president, mr commissioner mimica, none of us in this room have any doubt that algeria is an extremely important country for the european union, for the member states. some have better cooperation, higher cooperation, historical cooperation. some have a little less, but we certainly care that algeria remains a stable country, that we do not have the tragedies that we see in neighboring countries, especially in libya, and i believe that this way we also show seriousness when we talk about the importance of algeria. but on the other hand, it is precisely because we are friends and partners that we have the right to ask the leadership of algeria to respect what the values of the european union are. we have a deep cooperation with them, we want to continue a deep economic cooperation, but on the other hand we definitely need to release people from prison and we need to respect basic human and trade union rights.
answer to a blue-card question. i do not know whether you are referring to other cases which are perhaps also in the adriatic, i do not know what idea you have, i must say this honestly, but i am convinced that everyone can protest. so if someone doesn't accept something they can protest, then whether it's one person or thousands of people, we have to make sure that when we talk about these things we understand what the protesters want. i am convinced that the protests for a different kind of energy that we need will certainly always have my support.
mr president, i consider it necessary to adopt a regulation establishing a legislative framework at union level for indices used as benchmarks in financial instruments and financial contracts, mainly to ensure a high level of consumer and investor protection. it is important to include all benchmarks used to price financial instruments or consumer contracts and to measure the performance of investment funds. ensuring the accuracy and correctness of the indices is a key requirement that this regulation seeks to ensure and i support the four main objectives for improving the framework in which benchmarks are established. the impact on the union budget should not be a stumbling block to the adoption of the regulation and i believe that the benefits of a stricter management of the key benchmarks and the controls on their establishment will far outweigh the costs incurred in doing so. the cases of manipulation of reference interest rates, together with alleged manipulation of reference values in the energy and foreign exchange sectors, have also called for the adoption of this regulation and i therefore support it.
mr president, i want to support this report of our rapporteur very clearly because i think that 'it happens in april', as we would say in croatia, and i believe that we will put an end to the manipulation of banks and i believe that we will put an end to everything that we have witnessed in recent months and years. i particularly want to protect our consumers, strengthen the stability of the financial system and create a truly single capital market. my colleague marias was just speaking about the injustice, i would even say the fraud, that has happened to the swiss franc when the banks have come to extra earnings and many of our fellow citizens have become slaves to these loans. i think we need to talk about that issue here because i believe that our citizens deserve our solidarity as politicians. and these are the kinds of problems that we have to talk about in these forums because they concern the countries of the entire european union.
mr president, the recurrent tragedies in the mediterranean, in which thousands of people are risking their lives almost on a daily basis in order to reach the shores of europe, clearly show an ever growing need to continue, strengthen and also refocus our development policy and to rethink the ways of financing development. poverty, war and also the lack of freedom and bad governance is what makes desperate people undertake dangerous journeys in the search for a better life in europe, and development cooperation is an important part of the answer to this challenge. we all agreed at the last session in strasbourg that development is important, but we need to remember it now when we are talking about the financial contributions. thus i support the rapporteur and the commission in their call to the member states to recommit to devoting 0.7% of gni to official development assistance: yes, taking into account national budgetary constraints, but also taking into account the fact that the eu needs to remain the leader of global development efforts. i also share the rapporteur’s views that we need a truly global partnership and that all developed countries as well as emerging and middle-income economies should take their fair share of the burden in the fight against poverty. furthermore, we need a completely new approach to financing development. we need to go beyond official development assistance (oda) and work on mobilising all types of finance: public and private, international and domestic. in all these efforts ahead of the 13th national conference in addis ababa, we need to be aware of the fact that finance alone will not be sufficient. policies are of fundamental importance in achieving sustainable development goals. we need policies that will ensure that financial resources are used effectively and in areas that will bring further mobilisation of resources and sustainable development. we need to invest in enablers of development and yes, most of all, we need to invest in good governance. if we get back, for example, to the issue of migration we will see that this is the key question – the question of governance. many migrants are not even extremely poor, but they are all extremely desperate. they are ready to give thousands of euros to traffickers because there is not good governance. therefore, our development policy needs to focus on this, and the conference in addis ababa could be an important opportunity to make a significant step in that direction. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8))
blue-card answer. – yes, i do agree with that, mr rubig, and that is why i said that we also need to invest and support those who could be enablers of development – those who could, through their contribution and growth, support sustainable development in their countries. of course, supporting smes, supporting family business, should be seen in that context. from my side i can agree with you.
mr president, the response to global poverty and mr commissioner, as you have also stated, global partnership. the global partnership with the civil sector and the global partnership with the private sector. i think your concept is well-placed and of course the concept of the european union, as a leader in solidarity and in what it means to eradicate global poverty. i want to make it very clear here that i expect that it is you and the european commission as a whole that will lead the fight against the poverty that is still global, that is still huge, that is still big and that with the partners, with those who are our rich partners, with whom we share in some way the good fortune of this planet of ours, that it is with these partners, the rich partners, that we will jointly eradicate poverty.
mr president, cigarettes and smoking pose a direct threat to human health, so we must be interested in strict control of this sector. and if we add to that the smuggling of cigarettes of dubious quality which cause significant revenue losses for the european union and its member states, from customs duties and taxes every year, then that is an argument for additional control. it is the health of our citizens that is at stake and the money of our taxpayers that is being lost, and we as their representatives need to have more information about the communication that is taking place between the commission and the tobacco industry. smuggling of highly taxed products such as cigarettes and alcohol is a criminal offence that occurs very frequently on the eastern borders of the european union and can be linked to the growing poverty of the population there. it is therefore necessary, in my opinion, to initiate economic activities that will provide legal income to the population, and on the other hand to carry out targeted customs operations and focus on the fight against crime and corruption.
madam commissioner, mr. president, if this agreement is going to solve the smuggling and fraud issue, then it is welcome. if this agreement will solve the problems of the loss of 10 billion euros in budgets, then it is welcome. however, as you can see, there are a number of concerns that will be resolved so easily. because of all the actors who are extremely interested in this story. i would like to take this opportunity to ask you to pay attention not only to the big tobacco producers, but also to protect in some way the small tobacco and cigarette producers (if that is the way to put it) because this is a very important business for the country i come from. croatia has a significant production of tobacco and cigarettes. in that context, i think it's important that they be involved.
the commission considers that the exemption from vat on digital services is not sufficient to ensure that the taxable person is able to benefit from the tax exemption. it's a relic of some past times when digital was the thing of the future. it is clear that we live in a digital age and that digital services have become part of our daily lives, so that their providers should not be in a subordinate position in the market. if we want to create a digital single market and modernise our economies, i believe that we need to replace these bad regulations from the past as soon as possible with good and unburdensome regulations for the present and the future.
mr president, the problem of depopulation of rural areas is a problem in the south-eastern member states of the european union and also in the republic of croatia, where i come from. the commission should also be able to provide information on the impact of the measures taken on the environment and the environment protection. given that croatian 'young farmers' and 'farmers who are just starting to engage in agricultural activity' did not benefit from eu budgetary funding on these bases under the basic payment scheme or the single payment scheme before croatia's accession to the eu, i consider that the provision of a prescribed period of five years from the establishment of the holding before the first application for them is discriminatory. i call on the commission to recognise and eliminate this discrimination against young farmers in croatia and to take the necessary actions to ensure equal rights for young farmers in croatia in an appropriate manner and to prevent discrimination against young farmers in other member states.
written. driving growth within the european union and reindustrialisation is increasingly based on so-called green solutions and green approaches to doing business. in this context, smes, which represent more than 98% of european enterprises, are key drivers of economic and sustainable growth and it is important to enable them to take advantage of environmental challenges in order to make the most of the economic opportunities they offer. the commission has also found that the main green innovations are still being made by highly developed smes, but that other companies need to adapt to environmental regulations. to achieve such an outcome, deregulation is a necessary starting point. first, member states need to remove barriers to the internal market by reviewing existing legislation and reducing excessive regulation. on the other hand, it is also crucial that the european commission focuses its efforts on legislation that is adapted to innovation. such adaptations and changes must of course be accompanied by various measures and incentives, such as those to make it easier to start new businesses, and concrete and realistic financing and lending models in order for green initiatives to really take off and be fully implemented. i therefore support the empowerment of green growth and the circular economy, as they allow the development of opportunities linked to various sectors, in particular renewable energy.
mr president, we need to break the link between minerals and conflict and thus we need a regulation that will be enforceable and adequate. we need mandatory certification for smelters and refiners and we also need to put pressure on smelters and refiners that are outside the eu. that is why in the committee on development we also included the importers in the mandatory certification. however, going beyond that could be counterproductive, because it will be a burden not only for eu industries, but also for industries in the developing world. that is what we need to bear in mind here. we cannot actually restrict access to the eu market for them, which could be a consequence of such extensive regulation. so excessive regulation could really harm the economies of the developing world and could actually cost jobs there. that should not be the aim of eu regulation. on the contrary, i think we need to focus on an enforceable and appropriate regulation that puts forward an obligatory certification for smelters and refiners and, as i said, also puts pressure on those who are the outside the eu – which is the majority – by including the importers in that obligatory system. in that way i think we will have an enforceable system that gives added value in the effort to break the link between minerals and conflict. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8))
the question he raised by raising his blue card. dear mr. stier, thank you for accepting the blue card. you talked about the need for product labeling and you talked about the need for product traceability. do you agree with me that it is possible to really stop these wars and in a way that by labeling and tracking the product and all the ores and minerals you know exactly what is happening in that market? because if we can track the trace of oranges and bananas, then i guess we can track these precious minerals.
answer the question posed by raising the blue card. i think it's possible to reach a compromise. we've been working on it. here, for example, in the development committee, we have reached just such a compromise that has emphasized precisely that we have a system that can establish this traceability, that can simply include even those importers who will also have to certify their activities in this way. however, my argument was that if we go beyond that, for example in the development committee did not go beyond that with the mandatory system, it could be counterproductive. so we have to keep that system in mind, but we have to really break that link between minerals and conflict.
the question he raised by raising his blue card. dear mrs. le pen, thank you for accepting the blue card. i wanted to ask the gentleman from the efdd something similar, because they often talk about the uk and france. in this case, you specifically mentioned the producers to be protected, not just the consumers. you also often speak against the unity of the european union and that is why i ask you if you agree with me that this case of a digital single market is something that will really help french manufacturers of high-end products and in this way even small french manufacturers will be able to be present everywhere and on the world market through the digital market and trade?
mr president, i am in favour of removing the barriers that separate us from the digital single market and digitising the european economy to make it more competitive globally and more resilient to the challenges of the future. we're going to have to be brave and decisive, because removing these barriers will hurt the revenues of the big telecom operators, but also the government. the cost of adapting to the digital age in which we live should not be borne only by the private sector but also by member states, which should stimulate this process by reducing taxes on digital services. the high level of digitalisation in europe will change the structure and thus the future needs of our labour market, and resistance is to be expected from this side as well. so i think we need a comprehensive development strategy to have solutions for those citizens who are not currently benefiting from digitisation.
vice-president of the commission. – mr president, first of all, i would like to thank you cordially for this very fruitful debate. i got a clear message from this debate: we need change and that change is digital. time is very limited, but i will try to respond to as many questions as possible. i would like to start with marju lauristin. yes, i agree. some people will lose their jobs, but digital is creating many more jobs than it is destroying. but we have to help those people who lose their jobs to find new ones. we have to pay much more attention to the lifelong learning process. the cost of non-europe in a digital sense is huge. according to the latest analyses prepared by the european parliament, the cost of non-europe in this sense is eur 415 billion. i am afraid that if we do not act immediately, this cost of non—europe will even increase in the future. the commission is planning to make all its proposals during this year and next. we do not want to leave those proposals to the end of our mandate. there is a sense of urgency in the commission too. i would also like to ask you to speed up those processes. data protection reform, the network and information security (nis) directive, and the telecoms single market package are essential building blocks for a digital single market. a date for the end of roaming is something our people are really expecting to get from those negotiations. i would like to ask you to push for an end to roaming in the european union. i would like to state that very clearly. (applause) the european commission is also asking for end dates for roaming in the european union. i would like to respond to kaja kallas’s question. i have also followed the discussions in the estonian press and i would like to state very clearly that in the commission we never had – and we do not have – any kind of plans to create backdoors for identification systems. there is no basis for that kind of rumour. trust is a must and we do not want to destroy the people’s trust by creating backdoor identification systems. if there are any backdoors, sooner or later somebody will misuse them anyway. there were many questions about copyright, the principle of territoriality and the abolishing of geo-blocking. we have to allow our people to have cross—border access to digital content and the portability of the content. we have to allow cross-border access to digital content, to movies, music, e—books etc. we have to allow the portability of digital content to our people. when we talk about copyright reform, we do not want to change, with this digital single market strategy, the release window system, such as six months for movies in cinemas. it is up to the industry to say for how long a period of time they would like to keep those movies in cinemas. if six months, then six months, if 16, then 16, if 60 months, then once again it is up to the industry and not up to the commission to say for how long a period of time the producers would like to keep their movies in cinemas. it is a question about entrepreneurial freedom as i understand it. regarding dvds, once again it is up to the industry to say for how long a period they would like to keep those movies on dvd. but when it comes to video on demand, i would like to ask for cross-border access to the content and for portability of the content. today, everybody knows that piracy is free; you do not have to pay. i am sorry to say that many people are using those possibilities. according to public opinion polls as many as 68% of film viewers in europe use so-called free downloads; 20% of internet users in the european union are using vpns. so we have to tackle piracy, but first we have to provide legal access to digital content for our people. thank you very much once again for this very fruitful debate. the digital single market is not the finishing line. the digital single market strategy is not the finishing line. they are just starting points. i look forward to having fruitful cooperation with all of you over the next four and a half years. (applause)
written. the strategy emphasises geo-blocking or discrimination based on residence, which i have warned about on several occasions. as many as 24% of eu households have access to some online content blocked. i consider that this is direct discrimination against certain consumers. in croatia, about 25% of consumers buy online, which is about 20% less than the european average, and this can be explained as one of the consequences of discrimination in the digital market.
written. i support the digital single market because it lays the foundations for the continued development of a sector that has already significantly improved the quality of life of european citizens, but whose potential is not fully exploited. the common european approach is a key to achieving this. given that technology is used in all segments of life, from private to business use, it is essential to create a market that allows for the free movement of goods, persons, services and capital, and where individuals and companies can easily access and perform online activities in conditions of fair competition. in doing so, it is necessary to achieve a high level of protection of personal data. i also believe it is important that europe becomes a world leader in the digital economy, and this will be achieved by creating a digital single market that will enable european companies to develop globally. i support the 3 pillars of the decision that state the need to remove the key differences between the online and offline worlds in order to break the barrier to cross-border online activity. in addition, high-speed, secure and reliable infrastructure and content services are needed, supported by the right regulatory conditions for innovation, investment and fair competition. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's macro-financial assistance to the countries of central and eastern europe, including the countries of the former soviet union, and will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's macro-financial assistance to the countries of central and eastern europe.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the draft legislative resolution of the european parliament on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on safeguard measures provided for in the agreement between the european economic community and the swiss confederation because codification contributes to the clarity and certainty of european union law and stresses the importance of making union law accessible to all citizens and its transparency. i believe that the european union must make it easier and more efficient to find and understand its legal acts, and i believe that the codification is going in that direction.
written. ‒ it is in the european union's interest that all documents are transparent and accessible so that citizens can understand them more easily. for this purpose, european union documents shall be codified where appropriate. the commission proposal for the codification of the agreement between the european economic community and the swiss confederation concerns the amendment of the existing text without affecting the content of the agreement. the agreement between the european economic community and the swiss confederation was signed in 1972 with the aim of developing economic relations by ensuring a level playing field and removing existing obstacles to the establishment of free trade. i support the report by mr andrzej dude, which is based on the opinion of the advisory groups of the legal services of the european parliament, the council and the commission.
written. - council regulation no 2841/72/eec on the safeguard measures provided for in the agreement between the european economic community and the swiss confederation was adopted on 19 december 1972 and has been amended several times. the commission established as early as 1987 the rule that after a dozen amendments to a given act, it must be codified, thus contributing to greater certainty of the correct application of the act. the basic regulation has been amended in so far as it concerns the rules on trade including the implementation of the safeguard clause and the safeguard measures provided for in the agreement. the implementation of the bilateral safeguard clauses in the treaty requires uniform conditions for the adoption of safeguard measures. that implies that those measures should be adopted in accordance with regulation (eu) no 182/2011 of the european parliament and of the council of 16 february 2011 laying down the rules and general principles concerning mechanisms for control by member states of the commission's exercise of implementing powers. the act is of relevance for the regulation of trade between the eu and the swiss confederation. in order to ensure that the proposed codification is correctly applied both between states and between the stakeholders to whom this regulation has legal effect, i consider it necessary as it contributes to greater legal certainty in the application of the act.
written. ‒ since, in the opinion of the consultative working party of the legal services of the european parliament, the council and the commission, the proposal in question is limited to the codification of existing texts without any substantial changes, i support the rapporteur dude's proposal to adopt the position at first reading, adopting the commission proposal adapted in accordance with the recommendations of the consultative working party of the legal services of the european parliament, the council and the commission.
written. ‒ i support the report by mr andrzej dude on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on safeguards provided for in the agreement between the european economic community and the swiss confederation, as the consultative working party of the legal services of the european parliament, the council and the commission has pointed out that the proposal is limited to the codification of existing texts without any substantive changes. the purpose of this proposal is to codify council regulation (eec) no 2841/72 of 1972, which has been amended several times. the new regulation will replace the various acts incorporated in it. this proposal transposes the content of the acts to be codified and merges them into a single act only with the formal amendments necessary for codification, thus contributing to transparency and openness. the european parliament thus supports simplification, which will make union law clearer and more accessible to the citizens of the european union. i welcome the continued efforts of the expert services of parliament, the council and the commission in the codification procedures.
written. ‒ having regard to the commission proposal to the european parliament and the council, the interinstitutional agreement of 20 december 1994 on an accelerated working method for the official codification of legislative texts, and the report of the committee on legal affairs (a8-0145/2015), i support this report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on safeguard measures provided for in the agreement between the european economic community and the swiss confederation (codification).
written. ‒ i have supported the report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the safeguard measures provided for in the agreement between the european economic community and the swiss confederation, since, in the opinion of the consultative working party of the legal services of the european parliament, the council and the commission, that proposal is limited to the codification of existing texts without substantial changes and relates to the rules for the implementation of the safeguard clause and the safeguard measures provided for in articles 22 27 of the agreement between the european economic community and the swiss confederation, signed on 22 july 1972.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the draft legislative resolution of the european parliament on the draft council decision on the signing, on behalf of the union, of the european convention on the legal protection of services based on conditional access or services providing conditional access, as it gives its consent to the conclusion of an agreement that will allow the unhindered continuation of work in this area. the granting of the consent is also in line with the position of the alde group. the need for the consent of the european parliament further strengthens the democratic processes within the european union and its credibility.
written. ‒ with the emergence of new technologies, piracy is on the rise and is a major problem in the member states. we need to warn about the consequences of piracy and the use of copied products and services. the quality of pirated products is far below standard, and it takes away the reward for the work and effort of the creative community that creates them. this problem requires action by government institutions, the administration, the business sector and consumers themselves. by using services in an illegal manner, consumers expose themselves to the risk of identity theft and possible criminal charges. in most member states, activities to raise awareness of and combat piracy are being launched. i supported the recommendation of the swoboda mp on the convention on services related to broadcasting and information society services provided for a fee and based on conditional access, which sets out what constitutes an offence. the signature of the convention supports a common policy to protect these services and legislation that prevents illegal activities related to conditional access services by means of sanctions.
‒ the council of europe adopted the european convention on the legal protection of services based on conditional access or services providing conditional access, which entered into force on 1 july 2003. given that european legislation does not apply to non-eu countries and given that investment in the development of television, radio and internet services is only possible if clear and fair rules are respected and illegal and unauthorised access to these services is prevented, i supported the council's decision to sign the european convention on the legal protection of services based on conditional access or services providing conditional access, as it creates an international legal basis for the creation of a common and effective framework for the protection of these services.
written. ‒ i support the report by mr swobode on the draft council decision on the signing, on behalf of the union, of the european convention on the legal protection of services based on conditional access or services providing conditional access, giving its consent to the conclusion of the agreement. the european court of justice has already confirmed this position, the european convention on the legal protection of services based on conditional access or services providing conditional access and council decision 2014/243/eu of 14 april 2014 on the signing, on behalf of the european union, of the european convention on the legal protection of services based on conditional access or services providing conditional access, and there is no reason why the european parliament should not give its consent to the conclusion of the agreement.
written. ‒ i support the report by my colleague, mr pawel swoboda, on the recommendation on a draft council decision on the signing, on behalf of the union, of the european convention on the legal protection of services based on conditional access or services providing conditional access. after some procedural difficulties, we will finally have a legislative framework that corresponds to the real state of affairs of the multiple complexity of the protection of services based on conditional access or services providing conditional access. this decision builds on directive 98/84/ec of 1998 which arose from the need to combat unauthorised devices that allow unauthorised access to television services without payment, in addition to the protection of television subscriptions and the protection of radio services as well as internet transmission. the existing legislative framework has been qualitatively updated to reflect the current state of affairs, for example by defining more precisely the criminal offence of production of illicit means, and by providing a much clearer definition of the sanctions imposed for activities defined as illegal. finally, i believe that the conclusion of the convention will indeed send a strong signal and help to extend the provisions of directive 98/84/ec beyond the eu borders, thereby creating a comprehensive legislative framework for conditional access services applicable across europe.
written. ‒ having regard to the recommendation of the committee on legal affairs, council decision 2014/243/eu of 14 april 2014 and directive 98/84/ec of the european parliament and of the council of 20 november 1998, i support this recommendation on a draft council decision on the signing, on behalf of the union, of the european convention on the legal protection of services based on conditional access or services providing conditional access.
written. ‒ many non-eu countries can 'support' the development and distribution of hacking devices in conditional access services, thus allowing unauthorised access to protected services, especially if their legal system does not provide for sanctions against this very specific form of hacking. as this directive provides for the extension of the provisions beyond the eu borders, thus creating rules and a common effective framework applicable throughout europe, i supported the report as it guarantees the protection of services based on conditional access or services providing conditional access.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the recommendation on a draft council decision on the signing of the european convention on the legal protection of services based on conditional access or services providing conditional access. the convention extends the legislative scope adopted by the directive on the legal protection of services, which is also harmonised by the law on electronic media in the republic of croatia, and which regulates the rights and obligations of those persons who carry out the activities of providing radio or television services as well as services through electronic communications networks. the convention extends the scope of the legislative provisions to territories outside the union, i.e. to non-member countries, with the aim of combating illegal devices that jeopardise the broadcasting of television, radio programmes or other information society services. the commission has also found that the legal framework for the protection of the rights of third parties in the context of the protection of intellectual property rights is not sufficiently clear and that the legal framework for the protection of intellectual property rights is not sufficiently clear.
written. ‒ article 9 of protocol no 7 on the privileges and immunities of the european union provides that members of the european parliament shall enjoy in the territory of their country the immunities accorded to members of the parliament of that country. since the request of the national authority may trigger the lifting of that immunity, i grant the request.
written. ‒ i voted against the motion for a decision of the european parliament on the request for the waiver of the immunity of viktor uspaskich on the grounds that such a decision represents the alde group line. i also believe that the member should be able to work unhindered in the european parliament and that the process of waiver of immunity should be based on objective analysis and concrete facts.
written. ‒ viktor uspaskich is a lithuanian member of the alliance of liberals and democrats for europe club and a member of the committee on regional development. on 13 july 2014 the prosecutor general of the republic of lithuania informed the commission that the prosecutor general of the republic of lithuania had informed the commission that the prosecutor general of the republic of lithuania had informed the commission that the prosecutor general of the republic of lithuania had informed the prosecutor general of the republic of lithuania that the prosecutor general of the republic of lithuania had informed the prosecutor general of the republic of lithuania that he had informed the prosecutor general of the republic of lithuania that he had informed the prosecutor general of the republic of lithuania that he had informed the prosecutor general of the republic of lithuania that he had informed the prosecutor general of the republic of lithuania that he had informed the prosecutor general of the republic of lithuania that he had informed the prosecutor general of the republic of lithuania that he had informed the prosecutor general of the republic of lithuania that he had informed the prosecutor general of the republic of lithuania that he had informed the prosecutor general of the republic of lithuania. protocol no 7 on the privileges and immunities of the european union states that members of the european parliament are entitled to the same immunities as members of the national parliaments of the member states. i supported the report of ms ferrera who, on behalf of the committee on legal affairs, approved the waiver of the immunity of mr viktor uspaskich as there is no doubt that the proceedings were initiated with the intention of causing political damage. the representative shall be charged with the criminal offence of contempt of court in accordance with article 232 of the criminal code of the republic of lithuania.
written. ‒ i respect the recommendation of the rapporteur because, although the prosecution is not related to expressing an opinion or voting in the performance of his duties as a member of the european parliament within the meaning of article 8 of protocol no 7 on the privileges and immunities of the european union, and the alleged offence is clearly not related to the performance of the duties of mr uspaskich as a member of the european parliament, there is no reason to assume that the prosecution was initiated with the intention of causing political damage to the member concerned (fumus persecutionis) because it was initiated before mr uspaskich became a member of the european parliament.
written. ‒ i supported the report by the member of parliament laura ferrara on the request for the waiver of the immunity of the member of parliament viktor uspaskich. parliamentary immunity is a legal instrument to protect the unimpeded functioning of members and thus constitutes a necessary means of safeguarding parliament's independence. in order to be credible, it is important that parliamentary immunity be an instrument of protection against politically motivated persecution only. in the case of mr uspaskich, the committee on legal affairs has established that there is no criminal prosecution with the intention of causing political damage to the member. on 28 july 2013, mr uspaskich was charged with criminal contempt of court under the criminal code of the republic of lithuania for statements he made to journalists while he was a member of the national parliament. the commission has also received a complaint from the polish authorities concerning the alleged misuse of the power of attorney of the polish authorities. i therefore agree with the decision of the committee on legal affairs to waive immunity because the legal instrument for the protection of citizens' representatives at the level of the european union must not place representatives above the law.
written. ‒ since the member of the european parliament viktor uspaskich is charged with criminal contempt of court under article 232 of the criminal code of the republic of lithuania, i support this report as i consider that this procedure is not initiated with the intention of causing political damage to the said member. it is important to note that articles 8 and 9 of protocol no 7 on the privileges and immunities of the european union cannot be applied to this case because mr uspaskich was not a member of the european parliament at the time of the alleged offence and that offence does not relate to the opinions he expressed or to votes he took in the exercise of his duties as a member of the european parliament.
written. ‒ in the report on the request for waiver of immunity of viktor uspaskich, there is no evidence of fumus persecutionis, i.e. of a reasonable suspicion that the proceedings were initiated with the intention of causing political damage to the member concerned. viktor uspaskich is charged with the commission of a criminal offence of contempt of court in accordance with article 232 of the criminal code of the republic of lithuania. the prosecutor general of the republic of lithuania requested the waiver of the parliamentary immunity of a member of the european parliament in connection with the investigation of an alleged pre-trial offence. article 9 of protocol no 7 on the privileges and immunities of the european union provides that members of the european parliament shall enjoy in the territory of their state the immunities accorded to members of the parliament of that state. the president of the republic of lithuania shall be elected by the national assembly of the republic of lithuania for a term of five years.
written. ‒ article 9 of protocol no 7 on the privileges and immunities of the european union provides that members of the european parliament shall enjoy in the territory of their country the immunities accorded to members of the parliament of that country. since the request of the national authority may trigger the lifting of that immunity, i grant the request.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the motion for a european parliament decision requesting the waiver of the immunity of mr lavrilleux because in this particular case mr lavrilleux is charged with a number of criminal offences, such as forgery, which are not connected with the performance of his duties as a member of the european parliament. in this case, article 8 of protocol no 7 on the privileges and immunities of the european union cannot be applied.
written. ‒ jérôme lavrilleux is a french member of the european people's party club and a member of the committee on employment and social affairs and the delegation for relations with canada. during the 2012 french presidential election, he was deputy campaign manager for nicolas sarkozy, which is suspected of costing more than the law allows. the request for waiver of immunity was made by the french minister of justice in order to allow the paris court to question the lawyer representing mr lavrilleux and to establish his liability, since he is accused of participating in a scheme of issuing false invoices for campaign expenses, of illegally financing a pre-election campaign and of concealing that offence. the committee on legal affairs has approved the waiver of the immunity of mr jérôme lavrilleux. i supported the waiver of immunity because the charges were not related to his duties as a member of parliament and the proceedings were not initiated with the intention of causing political damage.
written. ‒ i respect the recommendation of the rapporteur because, although the prosecution is not related to expressing an opinion or voting in the performance of his duties as a member of the european parliament within the meaning of article 8 of protocol no 7 on the privileges and immunities of the european union, and the alleged offence is clearly not related to the performance of the duties of mr lavrilleux as a member of the european parliament, there is no reason to assume that the prosecution was initiated with the intention of causing political damage to the member concerned (fumus persecutionis) because it was initiated before mr lavrilleux became a member of the european parliament.
written. - i have supported the report by heidi hautala on the request for the waiver of the immunity of jérôme lavrilleux. in the case of mr jérôme lavrilleux, the legal affairs committee has unanimously found that there is no criminal prosecution with the intention of causing political damage to the member. deputy lavrilleux is suspected of participating in a scheme to issue false accounts for the 2012 presidential election campaign expenses while serving as deputy director of the presidential candidate's campaign. the commission notes that the commission has not provided any information on the number of cases in which the commission has been able to establish that the number of cases in which the commission has been able to establish that the number of cases in which the commission has been able to establish that the number of cases in which the commission has been able to establish that the number of cases in which the commission has been able to establish that the number of cases in which the commission has been able to establish that the number of cases in which the commission has been able to establish that the number of cases in which the commission has been able to establish that the number of cases in which the commission has been able to establish that the number of cases in which the commission has been able to establish that the number of cases in which the commission has been able to establish that the number of cases in which the commission has been able to establish that the number of cases in which the commission has been able to establish that the number of cases in which it has been able to establish that the number of cases in which it has been able to establish that number. i therefore agree with the decision of the committee on legal affairs to waive immunity because the legal instrument for the protection of citizens' representatives at the level of the european union must not place representatives above the law. parliamentary immunity is a legal instrument to protect the unimpeded functioning of members and thus constitutes a necessary means of safeguarding parliament's independence. in order to be credible, it is important that parliamentary immunity be an instrument of protection against politically motivated persecution only.
written. ‒ member of the european parliament jérôme lavrilleux is charged with forgery of documents, breach of trust, attempted fraud, concealment and complicity in criminal acts, and illegal financing of the french election campaign. it should be noted that the charges against mr lavrilleux are not related to his duties as a member of the european parliament but stem from his previous role as deputy director of the campaign for the last french presidential elections and are not related to the expression of opinions and voting of members in the exercise of their duties in the european parliament. on that basis, the defendant would have to prove his innocence in a court of law in france. i therefore support this report.
written. - i have supported the report on the request for waiver of immunity of jerome lavrilleux. the chief prosecutor of the paris court of appeal has requested that the immunity of jerome lavrilleux, member of the european parliament, be waived in connection with an investigation into charges of forgery and use of documents, breach of trust, attempted fraud and concealment of criminal offences, and illegal financing of an election campaign. a judge in france would like to order jerome lavrilleux to be detained or otherwise deprived of his liberty. jerome lavrilleux is suspected of having participated in a scheme to issue false accounts for the costs of a pre-election campaign, and therefore the charges against jerome lavrilleux are not related to his duties as a member of the european parliament but stem from his previous function as deputy director of the campaign for the last presidential elections in france. the prosecution is not linked to the expression of an opinion or the voting of mr lavrilleux in the performance of his duties as a member of the european parliament within the meaning of article 8 of protocol no 7 on the privileges and immunities of the european union. parliament did not find evidence of fumus persecutionis, that is to say, of a sufficiently serious and well-founded suspicion that the proceedings were brought with the intention of causing political damage to the member concerned.
written. ‒ article 9 of protocol no 7 on the privileges and immunities of the european union provides that members of the european parliament shall enjoy in the territory of their country the immunities accorded to members of the parliament of that country. since the request of the national authority may trigger the lifting of that immunity, i grant the request.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the motion for a european parliament decision requesting the waiver of the immunity of janusz korwin-mikke for the alleged infringement of the physical integrity of a public official, namely mr. michal boni. in addition, in the present case it can be established that the offence committed is not connected with the performance of the duties of a member of the european parliament.
‒ janusz korwin-mikke is an independent polish mep, member of the committee on foreign affairs and the delegation for relations with the people's republic of china. the request for waiver of immunity was forwarded to parliament by the prosecutor general of the republic of poland for violation of the criminal code initiated by the district office of the public prosecutor in warsaw. the commission has also been informed that the member states have not yet taken the necessary measures to ensure that the information provided by the commission is correctly used. i supported the report by mr kostas chrysogonos on the waiver of the immunity of mr korwin-mikke who, at a meeting of the newly elected polish members of the european parliament in warsaw, struck mr michał boni in the face with his hand, thereby injuring his physical integrity.
written. ‒ i respect the rapporteur's recommendation because, although the prosecution is not related to expressing an opinion or voting in the performance of his duties as a member of the european parliament within the meaning of article 8 of protocol no 7 on the privileges and immunities of the european union, and the alleged offence is clearly not related to the performance of the duties of mr korwin-mikke as a member of the european parliament, there is no reason to assume that the prosecution was initiated with the intention of causing political damage to the member concerned (fumus persecutionis) because it was initiated before mr korwin-mikke became a member of the european parliament.
written. - i have supported the report of the representative kostas chrysogonos on the request for the waiver of the immunity of the representative janusz korwin-mikke. the case concerns the alleged criminal offence of assault on a public official committed against janusz korwin-mikke while he was already a member of the european parliament. the legal affairs committee unanimously found that there was no criminal prosecution with the intention of causing political damage to a member and that the alleged offence was not directly or ostensibly connected with the performance of his duties as a member of the ep, nor with the expression of an opinion or the voting in the performance of his duties. i therefore agree with the decision of the committee on legal affairs to waive immunity because the legal instrument for the protection of citizens' representatives at the level of the european union must not place representatives above the law. parliamentary immunity is a legal instrument to protect the unimpeded functioning of members and thus constitutes a necessary means of safeguarding parliament's independence. in order to be credible, it is important that parliamentary immunity be an instrument of protection against politically motivated persecution only.
written. ‒ since the request for waiver of the immunity of mr janusz korwin-mikke does not violate article 8 of the protocol on the privileges and immunities of the european union, according to which members of the european parliament may not be subject to any form of interrogation, detention or judicial proceedings for expressing opinions or voting in the performance of their duties, and there is no reason to assume that the proceedings were initiated in order to cause political damage to the said member, i support this report as the proceedings relate to the alleged violation of the physical integrity of a public official, i.e. to the criminal offence referred to in article 222, paragraph 1, of the criminal code of the republic of poland. i also believe that the defendant should prove his innocence in a court of law in poland.
written. ‒ the prosecutor general of the republic of poland forwarded the request of the district office of the public prosecutor in warsaw for the authorisation to open criminal proceedings against the member of the european parliament janusz korwin-mikke for the offence referred to in article 222 (1) of the criminal code of the republic of poland, which is why i supported this request for waiver of immunity. the procedure specifically concerns allegations of violation of the physical integrity of a public official. in accordance with article 8 of the protocol on the privileges and immunities of the european union, members of the european parliament may not be subject to any form of interrogation, detention or judicial proceedings for expressing opinions or voting in the performance of their duties. as confirmed at this hearing, the alleged offence is not directly or ostensibly related to the performance of korwin-mikke's duties as a member of the european parliament nor is it related to expressing an opinion or voting in the performance of his duties as a member of the european parliament within the meaning of article 8 of protocol no 7 on the privileges and immunities of the european union. there is no reason to suspect, or a sufficiently serious and well-founded suspicion, that the proceedings were initiated with the intention of causing political damage to the member concerned (fumus persecutionis).
written. ‒ article 9 of protocol no 7 on the privileges and immunities of the european union provides that members of the european parliament shall enjoy in the territory of their country the immunities accorded to members of the parliament of that country. since the request of the national authority may trigger the lifting of that immunity, i grant the request.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the motion for a european parliament decision requesting the waiver of the immunity of theodoros zagorakis on the grounds that the offence in question was not related to his performance of his duties as a member of the european parliament but to his role as president of the football club paok from 2007 to 2012. the commission has not established that the member concerned has acted in bad faith.
‒ theodoros zagorakis is a greek representative of the european people's party club and a member of the committee on culture and education and the delegation for eu-russia parliamentary cooperation. representative zagorakis is accused of causing bodily injury by negligence and of failing to comply with the rules on safety at work in 2010 when he was president of paok thessaloniki football club. the deputy public prosecutor of the supreme court of greece has requested the waiver of immunity. as the accident occurred before the beginning of his mandate as a member of the european parliament, i supported the report proposing to waive the immunity of mr zagorakis.
written. ‒ i respect the rapporteur's recommendation because, although the prosecution is not related to expressing an opinion or voting in the performance of his duties as a member of the european parliament within the meaning of article 8 of protocol no 7 on the privileges and immunities of the european union, and the alleged offence is clearly not related to the performance of his colleague zagorakis' duties as a member of the european parliament, but to his function in the paok football club in greece, there is no reason to assume that the prosecution was initiated with the intention of causing political damage to the member concerned (fumus persecutionis) because it was initiated before mr zagorakis became a member of the european parliament.
written. - i have supported the report of mp andrzej dude on the request for waiver of immunity of his colleague mp theodoros zagorakis. the committee on legal affairs has found that the alleged financial irregularities committed by a colleague of mep theodorus zagorakis during his presidency of a football club in greece from 2007 to 2012 do not constitute a criminal prosecution aimed at causing political damage to the mep. since the case before us has nothing to do with the performance of the duties of theodoros zagorakis as a member of the european parliament but with the function of president of a football club, i agree with the unanimous decision of the committee on legal affairs to waive immunity, since the legal instrument for the protection of citizens' representatives at the level of the european union must not place members of parliament above the law. parliamentary immunity is a legal instrument to protect the unimpeded functioning of members and thus constitutes a necessary means of safeguarding parliament's independence. in order to be credible, it is important that parliamentary immunity be an instrument of protection against politically motivated persecution only.
‒ mep theodoros zagorakis is accused of financial irregularities during his presidency of paok football club between 2007 and 2012. as the said offence is not related to the performance of the duties of theodoros zagorakis as a member of the european parliament, but to his function as president of paok football club, the criminal prosecution is not related to expressing an opinion or voting in the performance of his duties as a member of the european parliament, and there is no reason to suspect that the criminal proceedings were initiated with the intention of causing political damage to the member, i support this report.
written. - i supported this report on the request for waiver of immunity of theodoros zagoraikis. the deputy prosecutor of the supreme court of greece requested the waiver of the immunity of the said representative because of the alleged criminal part of theodoros zagorakis. the commission has also provided information on the activities of the 'central electoral commission' and the 'central electoral commission' in the field of electoral law. the criminal proceedings were initiated several years ago, i.e. before mr zagorakis became a member of the european parliament, and there is no reason to believe that the criminal proceedings were initiated with the intention of causing political damage.
‒ the european parliament, as the representative body of european citizens, institutionalises cooperation with the european economic and social committee under the rules of procedure in order to improve the functioning of the eu.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the request for consultation of the european economic and social committee on improving the functioning of the european union based on the potential of the lisbon treaty because i believe that in such an important area the voice of civil society organisations is essential to strengthen economic and social cohesion within the european union and to strengthen the 'presence' of the european institutions. i therefore believe that the european economic and social committee can deliver a high-quality opinion that can contribute to concrete proposals and positions, improving the functioning of the european union in the context of the lisbon treaty.
written. ‒ i recognise the european economic and social committee as an important advisory body of the european union, and therefore of the european parliament, whose opinion is important to hear, consider and debate when analysing or proposing new frameworks for a better functioning of the european union, and to which the treaty of lisbon has given significant possibilities. since the members of the committee come from the ranks of employers, workers and other stakeholders and represent a kind of bridge between the institutions of the european union and civil society, the committee's contribution to these issues is all the more important in order to make the voice of all those who are (indirectly) concerned and the stakeholders they will influence heard in seeking change. i therefore welcome the request to consult this committee in planning and considering options for improving the treaty of lisbon and the necessary changes that should allow the creation of a legal framework to make the european union and all its institutions work more effectively and serve all the citizens of the european union.
written. ‒ i support the consultation of the european economic and social committee on improving the functioning of the european union on the basis of the potential of the lisbon treaty, under article 37 of the european parliament's protocol. the functioning of the european union can only be improved by involving all stakeholders, and the european economic and social committee has one of the key roles in this process.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the proposed request for consultation of the eesc on improving the functioning of the european union based on the potential of the lisbon treaty, as it is important to include bodies whose members represent a wide range of economic, social and cultural interests and whose main task is to bridge the gap between the european institutions and organised civil society.
written. ‒ i support this request for consultation of the european economic and social committee on improving the functioning of the european union on the basis of the potential of the lisbon treaty, as i believe that interinstitutional dialogue and respect for the expertise of the institutions are needed to better fulfil the provisions of the lisbon treaty. all of these can contribute to improving the functioning of the system.
written. ‒ i support the request for consultation of the european economic and social committee on improving the functioning of the european union building on the potential of the lisbon treaty and on possible changes and adjustments to the current institutional set-up of the european union. the european union faces enormous challenges such as millions of unemployed, increased migration, demanding global competition and a loss of confidence in the ability of politics to find solutions. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the reforms and will continue to monitor the implementation of the reforms and will continue to monitor the implementation of the reforms. the lisbon treaty is conceived as a step forward towards greater transparency and democratic decision-making, reflecting the treaty's commitment to a closer community of the peoples of europe, where decisions are taken as openly and as closely as possible to the citizen, by strengthening the role of the european parliament and national parliaments, thus enabling more democratic and transparent procedures for the adoption of union acts, which are necessary in view of the impact of those acts on citizens and businesses, but only if the eu institutions respect each other's competences, the procedures laid down by the treaties and the principle of sincere cooperation.
‒ the european parliament, as the representative body of european citizens, institutionalises cooperation with the european economic and social committee under the rules of procedure in order to improve the functioning of the eu.
written. ‒ i supported the request to consult the european economic and social committee on possible changes and adjustments to the current institutional set-up of the european union, because of the need to revise certain aspects and procedures of the european union. in this context, i believe that the committee's opinion can draw attention to the economic, social and civic aspects of the functioning of the european union which can improve its structure and which are not currently fully taken into account. it is therefore necessary to establish a dialogue to ensure a consensus that serves the political, professional and public interest.
written. ‒ it is good to look back from time to time and see how the systems we have built work or how and in what ways the work of these systems can be improved. in the business world, this cycle is common practice, so it is not surprising that the european economic and social committee was asked to be consulted on possible changes and adjustments to the current institutional set-up. the committee's members come from the ranks of employers, workers and other stakeholders and represent a kind of bridge between the eu institutions and civil society, making the committee's contribution to these issues all the more important in order to make the voice of those who are (indirectly) affected and the stakeholders they will affect heard in the pursuit of the changes in question. i therefore welcome the request to consult this committee on proposing changes that will make the european union and all its institutions work more efficiently and serve all the citizens of the european union.
written. ‒ i support the consultation of the european economic and social committee on possible changes and adjustments to the current institutional set-up of the european union on the basis of the potential of the lisbon treaty, under article 37 of the european parliament's protocol. the current structure of the european union can only be improved by involving all stakeholders, and the european economic and social committee has one of the key roles in this process.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the proposed request to consult the committee of the regions on possible changes and adjustments to the current eu institutional set-up, as i believe it is important to include in the decision-making process bodies representing the interests of local and regional authorities in the european union.
written. ‒ i support this request to consult the european economic and social committee on possible changes and adjustments to the current institutional set-up of the european union, as i believe that an interinstitutional dialogue is needed to improve and adapt the current institutional set-up of the european union. i also believe that the expertise of institutions that can help to resolve the current institutional structure of the european union should be taken into account.
written. ‒ the eesc is an advisory body of the european union. established in 1957, it provides expert advice to the eu's main institutions (the european commission, the european council and the european parliament). it does this by issuing 'opinions' on proposed eu legislative acts, as well as 'own-initiative opinions' on issues it considers needing to be addressed. one of its main tasks is to bridge the gap between the european institutions and 'organised civil society'. it promotes participatory democracy in the eu and helps to strengthen the role of civil society organisations by engaging in 'structured dialogue' with these groups in the eu member states as well as in other countries around the world.
written. ‒ cooperation with the committee of the regions, in particular through the competent committee in the european parliament, is institutionalised through the rules of procedure of the ep and is necessary for the exercise of the advisory function of that body.
written. ‒ the committee of the regions is an advisory body of the european union, because it conveys local and regional views to the eu institutions, which is of great importance to the eu, since the differences between member states, from the most obvious, such as the administrative division of the member states, their area and population, to the more complex, such as the structure of the administration, the autonomy of a region, traditions, the environment, the economy, etc., are large and need to be taken into account. the treaty of lisbon allows for decisions to be taken by consultation, requiring the cor to be consulted in the co-decision procedure when the european parliament is involved in a matter within its competence. the opinion of those closest to the electorate and those responsible for ensuring good living conditions for every eu citizen is important in order to deal more effectively with the specific issues that this level of governance must address. on the other hand, through consultations, the european institutions are introduced to the problems of regional authorities and are brought closer to the citizens themselves, thus establishing greater trust of the citizens in this great community of states. for all these reasons, i supported the decision to consult the committee of the regions on improving the functioning of the european union on the basis of the potential of the lisbon treaty.
written. ‒ i support the consultation of the committee of the regions on improving the functioning of the european union on the basis of the potential of the lisbon treaty, under article 38 of the european parliament's protocol. the functioning of the european union can only be improved by involving all stakeholders, and the european committee of the regions has one of the key roles in this process, as it represents the voice of citizens from all parts of the union.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the proposed request for consultation of the committee of the regions on improving the functioning of the eu on the basis of the potential of the lisbon treaty, as i believe it is important to include in the decision-making process bodies representing the interests of local and regional authorities in the european union.
written. ‒ i support this request for consultation of the committee of the regions on improving the functioning of the european union based on the potential of the lisbon treaty, as i believe that in order to better fulfil the provisions of the lisbon treaty, there should be an interinstitutional dialogue and respect for the expertise of the institutions which can help us to improve the functioning of the european union.
‒ the committee of the regions is an advisory body representing local and regional authorities in the european union. the role of the committee of the regions is to express the views of local and regional authorities on eu legislation by publishing reports (opinions) on commission proposals. the committee of the regions is consulted by the commission, the council and the parliament before decisions are taken at eu level on issues relating to local and regional government (for example, employment policy, the environment, education or public health). under the lisbon treaty, the european commission must now consult local and regional authorities and their associations in the eu territory at a pre-legislative stage. the committee of the regions, as the representative of local and regional authorities, shall be actively involved in this procedure. the committee of the regions shall be consulted by the commission once it has drawn up a legislative proposal if the proposal relates to one of the many policy areas that have a direct impact on local and regional authorities.
written. ‒ cooperation with the committee of the regions, in particular through the competent committee in the european parliament, is institutionalised by the rules of procedure of the ep and is necessary for the exercise of the advisory function of that body.
written. ‒ in the business world, it is common practice to question the functioning of the system, so it should not be surprising to request consultation with the committee of the regions on possible changes and adjustments to the current institutional structure of the european union. from time to time, it is good to look back and check the functionality of the decisions and the established system and to see if and how the system can be improved. since the members of the committee come from regional and local administrations, and represent a kind of bridge between the institutions of the european union and the citizens living in a given region, the committee's contribution to these issues is all the more important in order to make the voice of all those who are (indirectly) concerned and will be affected by them heard in the search for solutions. i therefore welcome the request to consult this committee on proposing changes that will make the european union and all its institutions work more efficiently and serve all the citizens of the european union.
written. ‒ i support the consultation of the committee of the regions on possible changes and adjustments to the current institutional set-up of the european union on the basis of the potential of the lisbon treaty, in accordance with article 38 of the european parliament's protocol. the current structure of the european union can only be improved by involving all stakeholders, and the european committee of the regions has one of the key roles in this process, as it represents the voice of citizens from all parts of the union and can provide a comprehensive analysis of where adjustments and changes are needed to improve the current institutional structure of the union.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the proposed request for consultation of the eesc on possible changes and adjustments to the current institutional set-up of the european union, as i believe it is important to involve bodies whose members represent a wide range of economic, social and cultural interests and whose main task is to bridge the gap between the european institutions and organised civil society.
written. ‒ i support this request to consult the committee of the regions on possible changes and adjustments to the current institutional set-up of the european union, as i believe that there should be interinstitutional dialogue and respect for the expertise of institutions that can help address potential adjustments and changes.
written. ‒ the committee of the regions was set up 20 years ago with the aim of bringing the european union closer to its citizens. the fact is that 70% of eu laws have a direct regional and local impact. the importance of the committee of the regions is recognised in the lisbon treaty, which sets out its three main pillars: subsidiarity, accessibility and proximity to citizens, and partnership. the main mission of the committee is to involve local authorities in decision-making at european level. cooperation between the european, national, regional and local levels is essential to create a union that is as close as possible to the citizens. the institutional set-up of the european union needs to be adapted, regional and local authorities need to be given autonomy and adequate financial resources to enable them to carry out their duties. it is necessary to promote the principles of good governance and the process of decentralisation. in addition, the harmonious and balanced development of all the territorial areas of the european union should be ensured. the committee of the regions, through direct dialogue with local, regional and european authorities, is a bridge between citizens and the institutions of the european union and, as such, participates in shaping future legislation.
madam president, tampering with the benchmarks is the same as stealing. so we need to restore confidence in benchmarks and we need to monitor their use well. the entire volume of eur 500 billion of financing instruments shows the importance of transparency. transparency of some data and methodology can resolve conflicts of interest. the reference interest rates are used, for example, to determine the variable part of a floating interest rate. this means that poorly, inadequately or intentionally miscalculated benchmarks can raise the overall interest rate of a consumer credit, ultimately putting consumers at a disadvantage. in croatia, we have seen this in the case of the swiss franc, which has brought many citizens and their families to the brink of ruin. it is important to establish a climate of trust, which is what this report should contribute to, and that is why i supported it.
madam president, i supported today the adoption of a regulation on indices used as benchmarks in financial instruments and financial contracts, because a single approach is crucial to preventing market fragmentation and the high-quality functioning of the single market is one of the key objectives at european union level. the objective is to prevent and avoid penalties, which occurred in december 2013 in the amount of eur 17 billion, all due to misinterpretation and manipulation of benchmarks, by means of a high-quality and clear regulatory approach. this regulation aims to improve the management system and avoid conflicts of interest and to improve the quality of input data and benchmarking methodologies, which is essential for the timely and high-quality resolution of compensation claims in the event of manipulation of benchmarks and input data.
written. ‒ i support this report because it is well balanced around its key points and i think that a good result has been achieved in that part. a fair balance has been struck between critical and non-critical criteria, which makes for a good compromise in the negotiations with the council.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the draft legislative resolution of the european parliament on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on indices used as benchmarks in financial instruments and financial contracts because i believe it is important to establish a clear regulatory framework at european union level to ensure consumer and investor protection. in addition, in some member states there are currently no national rules on how to establish benchmarks, while in others there are instances of manipulation of benchmarks. i therefore believe that the management and control of benchmarks should be improved, the quality of information and methodology used by benchmark experts should be improved, conflicts of interest should be avoided and the transparency of all related processes should be increased.
written. ‒ i support the report by ms van nieuwenhuizen on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on indices used as benchmarks in financial instruments and financial contracts. the pricing of many financial instruments and financial contracts depends on the accuracy and correctness of benchmarks. serious cases of manipulation of benchmark interest rates, for example libor, euribor and benchmarks in the foreign exchange business sector, and alleged manipulation of benchmarks in the energy, oil and foreign exchange business sectors confirm that benchmarks can be subject to conflicts of interest and have discretionary rights systems and weak governance systems that are susceptible to manipulation. the inaccuracy and incorrectness of indices used as benchmarks, or the doubt as to their accuracy and correctness, can undermine market confidence, cause losses to consumers and investors and disrupt the real economy. it is therefore necessary to ensure the accuracy, stability and correctness of the benchmarks and the procedure for their establishment.
written. ‒ in order to avoid in the future the manipulation of reference interest rates, as was the case with libor and euribor, and the manipulation of benchmarks in the business sector, which can lead to a disturbance of market confidence, loss of consumers and investors and thus to disruption of the economy, i support this report because i believe that it is necessary to ensure the accuracy, stability and correctness of the benchmarks and the procedure for their establishment. the commission should be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 290 tfeu concerning the establishment of a union-wide regulatory framework for benchmarks. this regulation would achieve transparency as to the purpose of the benchmark and input data on the basis of which any claims for compensation under national or union law can be effectively addressed. since the accuracy and reliability of a benchmark in measuring the economic reality for which it is intended depends on the methodology used and the input data, it is necessary to adopt a transparent methodology ensuring the reliability and accuracy of the benchmark.
written. ‒ the inaccuracy and incorrectness of indices used as benchmarks, or the doubt about their accuracy and correctness, can undermine market confidence, cause losses to consumers and investors and disrupt the real economy. it is necessary to ensure the accuracy, stability and correctness of the benchmarks and the procedure for their establishment, therefore i support the report as adopted by econ. in order to ensure the proper functioning of the internal market and to improve the conditions for its functioning, in particular with regard to financial markets, and to guarantee a high level of consumer and investor protection, it is therefore necessary to establish a regulatory framework for benchmarks at union level. the aim is to avoid in future cases such as the libor or euribor scandals that undermine market confidence, cripple the economy, reduce investors' profits and boost mortgages and loans.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on indices used as benchmarks in financial instruments and financial contracts. the single framework and an effective governance system are necessary to prevent illegal activities in the field of benchmark rate changes and their misuse for the benefit of the policy of economic operators. we must be aware of the real problems facing citizens, which in some member states are manifested by high credit rates and declining incomes. such a disproportion represents a great burden, especially for those who have taken on the task of dealing with housing or existential issues. the commission notes that the commission has not provided any evidence that the financial institutions in question are in a position to provide the necessary guarantees. the commission should also be able to assess the impact of the measures on the financial stability of the union, in particular the impact of the measures on the financial stability of the union, on the financial stability of the union and on the stability of the financial system. many member states have introduced self-regulatory measures for their own security, but i support the commission's proposal to widen the scope of the measures to allow for easier control and supervision of institutions.
madam president, 5 billion people still live in poverty and are deprived of health, education and living standards, especially in countries affected by conflict and instability in their own countries. such a situation is unacceptable, given that the world has sufficient resources to gradually end this situation. this report calls for the eu and the member states to continue to commit 0.7% of gdp to official development assistance, but i also believe it is important to take account of the economic situation in the context of defining the deadlines for achieving the targets. the eu is the world's largest donor of development aid and is responsible for almost 60% of the world's official development assistance, and these funds should be used in the best possible way, which is not the case today. oda should primarily support basic social services available to all and 'public goods' as well as self-employment of local people, especially in agriculture, rather than sexual and reproductive rights, and that is why i voted to exclude this part from paragraph 28 of this report.
written. ‒ although a plan was signed in 2000 to drastically reduce the poverty rate by 2015, we are still far from that today. i therefore support this report which represents a new framework in the hopefully better and more successful fight against poverty.
written. ‒ i voted for the report on development finance because i believe that the eu and the member states together need to promote shared responsibility as much as possible and fulfil their commitment to spend 0.7% of gross national income on official development assistance. although the european union is the world's largest donor of such aid, contributing 60% of its share, few developed countries are fully meeting their commitment to provide the money. the eu should continue its efforts to reduce and ultimately eradicate poverty, protect human rights, and fight inequality.
‒ the european union's development policy is defined in article 208 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union, which calls for the eradication of poverty in the world. the new multiannual financial framework provides for eur 20 billion to develop cooperation between the european union and third countries, eur 7 billion for humanitarian aid and an additional eur 2 billion for emergency humanitarian aid. the above-mentioned funds make the european union the largest donor, since 60% of the world's development aid for reducing poverty, providing adequate healthcare, access to adequate education and infrastructure, comes from the european union. i supported the european parliament's resolution on financing for development because i believe that the role of the european union in providing high-quality development assistance to developing countries is crucial. the union's macro-financial assistance should be targeted at the following priority areas:
written. ‒ i supported this report on financing for development because it aims to eradicate poverty and promote sustainable development. the role of the european parliament is crucial in achieving the sustainable development goals, but the economic situation and the competence of the member states must be taken into account when setting deadlines for the achievement of those goals. all countries that can, should, should allocate resources to fight poverty. but funding alone is not enough; we need policies that lead to the efficient spending of money. the continuing tragedies in the mediterranean are a reminder that the aid we give is not being directed in the best way and that this needs to change.
‒ 2015 is a key year for investing in global development efforts due to the adoption of the sustainable development goals and the global agreement on climate action, which will be in force until 2030. the third international conference on financing for development, to be held in addis ababa, ethiopia, from 13 to 16 july 2015, should also create conditions for the financing of programmes for the period after 2015. statistics show that 1.5 billion people live in poverty. they are disadvantaged in terms of health, education and living standards, especially in conflict-affected and fragile states. the elimination of inequalities can only be achieved by mobilising appropriate resources and better targeting marginalised groups such as children, older people or people with disabilities. the united nations conference on trade and development (unctad) estimates that developing countries' financing needs for the new sustainable development goals are approximately usd 3,9 trillion per year and that there is currently an annual shortfall of usd 2,5 trillion as the ultimate costs of sustainable development will be significantly higher. the commission will continue to support the implementation of the sustainable development goals (sdgs) and the implementation of the global compact for sustainable development. for the reasons i have given, i fully support mr pereira's report.
written. ‒ i support the report by mep pedro silva pereira on financing for development, whereby 2015 is a key year for creating the conditions for financing and implementing programmes at global level. given that only a very small proportion of developed countries meet their commitment to allocate 0.7% of their gross national income to aid for the least developed countries, i believe that this report has an exceptional role to play. i welcome the eu as the main and largest donor of development aid. the eu should maintain this position while promoting shared responsibility in terms of encouraging developed countries to fulfil and assume significant commitments. the european parliament also welcomes the call by the member states to persuade public and private donors at global level to help the least developed countries in their development, with the ultimate eradication of poverty as one of the most important and primary objectives. it is important to emphasise the fight against tax evasion, which is one of the important items that reduces development aid and contributes to the development of the debts of individual countries. the mobilisation of domestic resources should be one of the key sources of funding. the elimination of harmful subsidies in the fields of energy, fisheries and agriculture, as well as the importance of creating favourable conditions for private enterprise, especially for small and medium-sized enterprises, which play a major role in creating new jobs, i also consider very useful for croatia.
written. ‒ i support this report on financing for development because i share the european parliament's view on achieving the sustainable development goals. while i believe that the eu and its member states should remain the main donors of development aid and promote shared responsibility, i appeal in particular to high-income, middle-income and emerging economies to take up their commitments and increase their share of development aid. it is also necessary to involve the private sector in financing sustainable development.
written. ‒ i support this report because 2015 is a key year for the adoption of the sustainable development goals and the global agreement on action against climate change to be in force by 2030 and because the third international conference on financing for development, to be held in addis ababa, ethiopia, from 13 to 16 july 2015, should create the conditions necessary for the financing and implementation of the post-2015 programme. 1.5 billion people still live in poverty and are deprived of health, education and living standards, especially in fragile and conflict-affected countries. i therefore welcome the latest and comprehensive communication from the commission entitled 'a global partnership for the eradication of poverty and sustainable development beyond 2015', as eradicating poverty and inequality can only be achieved by mobilising sufficient and appropriate resources. the eu and the member states, as the largest donors of development aid (the eu accounts for almost 60% of world official development assistance), need to lead the process of financing development and help find a credible response to the challenges that this financing brings and should maintain their position as the main donor, ensuring policy coherence for development within the post-2015 agenda.
written. ‒ when it comes to investing in developing countries, the role of the private sector, the provision of assistance and better coordination of the different mechanisms are key drivers of growth and development. i believe that effective support for the development of a given community can come primarily from the local level, which puts the importance of supporting micro, small and medium-sized enterprises in the foreground. i would like to take this opportunity to stress once again the need for transparency in the financing of projects by the union, but also the need for transparency on the national side in their financing. i support the provisions of the report which emphasise fairer tax systems. taxation must be more objective and more sensitive to vulnerable groups in society. i believe it is important to promote efficient, balanced and stimulating tax systems so that the financial system can ultimately be oriented towards supporting sustainable development and thus create the conditions for the implementation and financing of programmes in less developed countries. i voted for the report because i believe that developing countries need outside help to be able to mobilise their national resources and achieve the sustainable development goals.
madam president, health and pension systems are always the target of austerity measures proposed by well-known consultants, international monetary institutions and various advisers to national governments. i am in favour of rational business but not of savings that would compromise patients' rights and their safety and that is why i supported this report. the european commission found in 2012 that patient safety was compromised by austerity measures, including cost-cutting in health services, which directly affected the quality of healthcare. 8% to 12% of hospital patients in the eu suffer from harm caused by treatment, with hospital infections reaching up to 30% of that number. for example, the practice of dispensing medicines as therapeutic alternatives for which their efficacy cannot be fully established, the excessive or incorrect use of antibiotics, and the inadequate management of therapies with the harmful consequences of irresponsible use of medicines result in costs of eur 2,7 billion according to the latest data.
written. ‒ quality and safe healthcare is something that should be taken for granted today. unfortunately, eurobarometer data show that as many as 53% of europeans fear that additional injuries could occur during hospital care. this is a devastating figure, and if it is even partially justified, the data shows that 12% of hospitalized patients in the european union become victims of inadequate healthcare. the damage caused by poor health care should be seen primarily in terms of protecting the individual, but also as a social problem. for example, doctors often prescribe antibiotics without being sure that they are necessary. similarly, patients are dissatisfied if they leave the office without a prescription for antibiotics. in this way, they contribute to the development of antibiotic resistance, which is very dangerous in the long run. it is necessary to include patient safety in the education and training of healthcare professionals, and to work on action plans and strategies to control infections. in conclusion, i welcome the increasing involvement of member states in the implementation of patient safety recommendations. this shows that there is a growing awareness at political and professional level of the need to work systematically to increase patient safety.
written. ‒ i voted for the report on safer healthcare in europe: improving patient safety and tackling antimicrobial resistance because research shows that the last 25 years have seen an irrational use of antimicrobials, especially antibiotics. the eu estimates that infections caused by resistant bacteria kill 25 million people a year - an extremely high number and a cost to the public health system. it is necessary to encourage the continuous training of healthcare professionals and investment in education, exchange of experience, knowledge and best practices in order to introduce more recent measures related to general patient safety and reduction of hospital infections, as there are large differences between member states in this sector.
‒ the report by mep piernicola pedicinia deals with the problem of the misuse of antibiotics that creates bacterial resistance, but also with the reactions of the human body to the effects of antibiotics. about 3 million people a year get sick from infections acquired during treatment. prevention, increased hygiene controls, and proper antibiotic prescribing could greatly reduce the number. in croatia, systematic monitoring of resistance at national level started in 1996 and since 2006 croatia has been actively participating in european projects and an interdisciplinary body has been established to coordinate all activities in the field of control of antibiotic resistance (iskra) in accordance with the council recommendations. i support the report by mep pedicinia which calls for the fight against antimicrobial resistance to be tackled through responsible and targeted prescribing of antibiotics and a global infection control strategy to reduce the number of resistant bacteria that threaten the health of citizens. citizen education through a five-year public campaign in france has led to a 25 percent reduction in outpatient antibiotic use in that country, and in that context, we need to change our practices and implement best policies.
written. ‒ healthcare should be patient-focused and not suffer from unjustified cost-cutting for the sake of savings, as this report warns, and that is why i supported it. quality healthcare for our citizens depends on the quality and good organisation of the system, investment in the education of doctors and research and development of medicines and equipment. the seemingly cheapest solutions are not always the cheapest and the best for patients. the report also warns against the misuse of antibiotics, which are often prescribed for viral infections that have no effect or are prescribed for poorly defined and general diagnoses. the inappropriate use of antibiotics has increased the number and variety of resistant bacteria. this is a serious and growing health problem in hospitals across the eu and long-term action is needed to prevent the emergence, selection and transmission of antibiotic-resistant bacteria.
written. ‒ the main dimension of overall quality of healthcare is patient safety. the problem is that an estimated 8-12% of eu hospital inmates are victims of adverse events related to the healthcare they receive, and half of these could be prevented under better conditions. such adverse events are most often the result of hospital infections, the effects of medications, and complications during or after surgery. patient safety and quality of healthcare require more decent working conditions and safety at work, but in today's conditions it is difficult to guarantee the health safety of patients, and the problem exists in the lack of staff employed in healthcare institutions. the total cost of maintaining sufficient supplies of medicines and ensuring that healthcare activities are carried out to prevent harmful effects is estimated at eur 2,7 billion per year. i therefore support the report by mr pedicini.
written. ‒ it is estimated that between 8 and 12% of patients hospitalised in the european union are victims of adverse events linked to the healthcare they receive. the most common are hospital infections, the effects of medications, and complications that occur during or after surgery. the commission shall, by means of implementing acts, lay down rules on the application of this regulation and on the application of this regulation, including the rules on the application of articles 10 and 11 of regulation (eu) no 528/2014. as noted in the report, the increased prevalence of hospital-acquired infections and the failure to treat infectious diseases is due to increased antimicrobial resistance of pathogenic bacteria caused by the systematic and incorrect use of antimicrobials. for all the above reasons, i agree with this report.
written. ‒ i voted for the report on safer healthcare in europe improving patient safety and fighting antimicrobial resistance as the main dimension of overall healthcare quality is patient safety, with healthcare culture and adverse event management as fundamental aspects. continued education of doctors and other health professionals is crucial to preventing adverse events. the commission shall be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 26 to supplement this regulation by laying down detailed rules for the application of this regulation. home treatment can also help patients on a psychological level and improve the outcomes of health care. a multidisciplinary approach increases the chances of a positive outcome. it is essential to encourage pharmaceutical companies to invest and continue to invest in the development of new antimicrobials, in particular those active against diseases for which antimicrobial resistance poses a high risk, and in the development of other methods to combat hospital-acquired infections without the use of antibiotics. this can be achieved by encouraging investment in research and development that addresses the greatest public health needs while protecting the sustainability of national health systems.
written. ‒ health problems, i.e. the rise of infections as a result of inadequate healthcare and antimicrobial resistance, require a multidisciplinary approach to provide adequate healthcare and patient protection in the member states. i support this report because it emphasizes that the backbone of health care is patient safety, with the consequences of medical errors in the hospital to be minimized. i welcome the recognition of the role of vaccines in limiting the use of antibiotics and thus the development of antimicrobial resistance. by addressing such health issues that directly affect the quality of people's lives, we can significantly reduce unnecessary costs and thus relieve already constrained government budgets. there is no such thing as free health care, so we can say that health care comes at a price. so i believe that only a multidisciplinary approach and collaboration with patients can ensure safer and more effective health care. i agree that patients and other stakeholders should be given a greater role in the public policy making process and that is why i supported this report.
madam president, the european union, its science, technology and economy need a new strong impetus to grow and maintain their high position in the world market and that is why i supported this report. however, this growth must incorporate the benefits the eu has and at the same time reduce unnecessary costs and waste such as energy and energy products imports. policies such as green growth and the circular economy, coupled with serious sources of funding and private sector participation, are precisely the answer to these efforts. however, europe's economic leadership is not and must not be an end in itself. the purpose of a good economic situation is first and foremost the safety and satisfaction of our citizens. the data on smes, which represent more than 98% of european enterprises, account for more than 67% of total employment in the union and generate 58% of gross value added, tell us precisely what strategy we need to adopt.
madam president, this report by mr de backer on the possibilities of green growth for small and medium-sized enterprises concerns the efficient and sustainable use of energy, resources and new technologies and stresses the need for what is of the utmost importance, namely transparent, high-quality information for entrepreneurs. the green growth action plan provides guidance to all member states on how to help smes take advantage of eu funds to move to a green economy. the commission will continue to support the development of the union's policy on the environment and sustainable development, and will continue to support the implementation of the union's policy on the environment and sustainable development. this is why i supported the report by mr de backer on green growth as an incentive to turn environmental challenges into opportunities for sustainable growth and development with the aim of a better quality of life for all citizens of the european union.
written. ‒ this own-initiative report looks at ways to harness the potential of 'green growth'. the report was prompted by the european commission's communication on a 'green' action plan for economic growth. the rapporteur focused on financing opportunities, resource efficiency, energy efficiency, circular economy and industrial synergies. the commission will also be able to provide information on the implementation of the new rules on the protection of the environment and the protection of the environment in the event of a disaster. this includes the efforts of industrial producers to reduce the environmental footprint of their products, production processes, business practices and services. in conclusion, i support this report and hope that it will result in concrete action by the eu.
written. ‒ i voted for the green growth opportunities report for smes because i believe that we need to give great importance to innovative 'green' solutions in view of the challenges ahead. the world's population is growing, and by 2050, we're expected to have nine billion people on the planet, which means that the world economy has to be very careful about how it uses its natural resources. renewable energy is not only of great natural importance, but also offers the potential for economic growth and employment. the commission should take into account the different programmes, useful instruments and future business models in the green economy when funding smes, as there is no single model that suits all smes. i believe that there is still a lot that can be done in informing smes, entrepreneurs and organisations about the green initiative, possible support, knowledge management, strengthening cross-sectoral cooperation and resource management, and that there is certainly a huge potential in this area.
written. ‒ focusing our efforts on new technologies that decouple economic growth from energy and consumption of raw materials, together with targeting sufficient and viable opportunities towards smes, is the right way forward for the eu. i supported this report because it stresses that the concept of green growth and the circular economy should be part of a broader strategy to boost job creation and economic growth of small and medium-sized enterprises. the european commission should therefore create instruments to remove unnecessary administrative burden for smes and develop common guidelines for national public support schemes for green investment projects in order to create a more balanced set of measures. the development of entrepreneurial skills should be integrated into the education system and it is necessary to change unsustainable consumption patterns and promote a change in consumer behaviour. i am committed to providing assistance to micro and start-up companies moving towards sustainable green growth and to encouraging green entrepreneurship.
written. ‒ small and medium-sized enterprises account for more than 98% of european enterprises, provide more than 67% of total employment in the union and 58% of gross value added; they are the backbone of the european union's economy and a key driver of long-term european economic growth and sustainable job creation in the 28 member states. employment in the environmental goods and services sector grew by 20% between 2007 and 2011, despite the crisis, and this sector offers opportunities for even greater economic activity and job creation for small and medium-sized enterprises (smes), including in areas affected by displacement and ageing populations. also, nine out of ten smes have 10 or fewer employees and these micro-enterprises account for 53% of all jobs in europe. all these data show the outstanding green growth potential of smes, which form the backbone of the european economy. i agree with the rapporteur who specifically points out the lack of access to adequate sources of risk capital, especially in the early stages, as one of the biggest constraints for the creation and development of growth-oriented enterprises, the appropriateness of the commission's action plan on improving access to finance for smes for only a small number of smes and the fact that financing alternatives should be developed by the private sector. i hope that the potential funding will be used through the european fund for strategic investments.
written. ‒ i support the report on green growth opportunities for smes. green growth as a means of combining economic growth with environmental sustainability offers numerous opportunities for small and medium-sized enterprises, which account for 90% of all eu enterprises and two thirds of the private sector. half of smes have a major impact on the environment through air pollution, energy use and waste disposal. all sectors can at least partially implement environmentally sound production and recycling methods. more than 90% of small and medium-sized enterprises already implement at least one of the ways to preserve the environment, either by saving energy, minimising waste or taking care of water. the main obstacle is the lack of specialists with the knowledge to apply environmentally sound methods. currently, 26% of eu companies offer 'green' products or services. enabling smes to turn environmental challenges into business opportunities - the commission has proposed a series of measures to harness the benefits of green growth. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the new rules and will continue to monitor the implementation of the new rules.
written. ‒ i voted against the report on green growth opportunities for smes, although i agree with the need to develop a green economy, because the draft report is nonspecific and ideologically written in relation to the action plan on which it should be based. i would point out that legislation is not the only obstacle to growth as the report states and that removing legislation would benefit eu citizens as well as small and medium-sized enterprises. the commission has also taken into account the fact that the union's contribution to the union's macro-financial assistance is limited to the minimum necessary to achieve the objectives of the union's macro-financial assistance. i also disagree with the parts of the report that call for the acceleration of the transatlantic trade and investment partnership (ttip) and its ratification. resource efficiency and the circular economy are opportunities for smes. it is necessary to ensure strong measures to help these companies to transition to a circular economy and i support the concrete proposals that we have managed to include in the resolution on behalf of the green/ees club.
written. ‒ i supported this report because of the importance of smes in the development of europe - smes account for more than 90% of european enterprises, they provide more than 67% of total employment in the union and 58% of gross value added, employment in the organic sector grew by 20% between 2007 and 2011. the global market for green goods is currently estimated at eur 1000 billion per year, which is expected to triple by 2020, with particular growth expected in the european union as a result of the green growth incentives for smes. the focus is mainly on high-tech enterprises directly implementing green innovation, but other enterprises need to be supported in complying with environmental regulations. i support the idea of green growth and circular economy and in this connection the use of renewable energy sources. the commission should be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 290 tfeu concerning the conditions for the participation of third countries in union programmes in the field of research and technological development, in particular in the framework of the european research area. i think women's entrepreneurship needs to be strengthened in green growth and especially in rural areas.
written. ‒ i voted for the report on the possibilities of green growth for small and medium-sized enterprises, which in croatia are certainly not using their full potential. i come from a country where the business and investment climate is seriously damaged and where citizens witness the collapse of the national economy every day. i believe that micro, small and medium-sized enterprises are the key to economic recovery and can be harnessed by removing the barriers to the internal market that result from excessive regulation and bureaucratic procedures. i therefore support the proposal calling on the commission to refrain from further legislative provisions that will lead to unnecessary administrative burdens for businesses and for member states to take a responsible and clear approach to the interpretation of the rules in order to allow the green economy to fully develop and overcome obstacles related to financing and research, development, legal constraints and intergovernmental cooperation. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the new rules and to monitor the implementation of the new rules.
vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy.– madam president, let me start by thanking everyone, and in particular the four rapporteurs, for the excellent work done on the reports – this is my personal opinion – but also for the very clear, determined way in which you have worked and also presented the reports today, but even more than that, for the ambitious approach. this is what we need at this moment. we all start by saying never before have we needed a more ambitious approach than we do now. well, i think it is time to translate this analysis, which is right, into action and i find your words, your work, your reports, and the overall attitude of this parliament in this respect extremely helpful in supporting an ambitious approach, including openly addressing some of the shortcomings that are the basis for changing and for delivering more of this sense of openness, of frankness, concerning the shortcomings and the needs we have to increase our level of ambition. it is also my approach, and that level of ambition that your reports are expressing is also my level of ambition in this field. as members have said, europe is facing multiple security challenges today and there is no doubt that we need to step up our common efforts in europe. i would say, in one sentence, that we need more defence in our european work and we need a more european approach in defence. this is the substance of what we are discussing here this afternoon. csdp and defence cooperation are crucial, yet they only work fully, they only unfold their full potential, if they are part of a comprehensive strategy, of a comprehensive policy, using all the instruments that we have as europeans, linking the external and internal dimension of our policies in an intelligent way. not only that – this is not the issue for debate this afternoon – we also need to use the tools that we have, including csdp, not only in reaction to events, but also in a strategic way to build security. building security is not only defence, it is also building the conditions for security worldwide and in particular in the regions around us: conflict prevention, development cooperation, promotion of human rights and democracy, coherence, economic and trade policies, including our own ones, even prevention and management of natural disasters and climate change. all of this is building security in the world, in the key areas in our neighbourhood and, at the end of the day, our own citizens’ security. this is going to be tackled in a systematic way when we discuss, in the european council at the end of june with heads of state and government, not only csdp but also our need for a new strategy, our strategic review. i will present in june the assessment i was asked and tasked to present on the global challenges we have in front of us, on the eu role in facing this. i hope that from there we will define and decide whether – or rather how – we need to develop a new european strategy to tackle the different and more challenging environment facing us. i think that the need to put together all the instruments we have is more obvious than ever in the challenges that we are facing in tackling the human tragedies that we see in the mediterranean sea. some of you mentioned that. finally we have started to mobilise all our efforts to prevent further loss of life at sea. i say finally, and i say finally in the european way. as one of these efforts, the european council at the end of april asked me to prepare a csdp operation to disrupt the business model of human trafficking networks across the mediterranean. yesterday, at the joint council meeting of foreign and defence ministers which i chaired, all member states agreed to establish a csdp operation to disrupt trafficking and smuggling networks. we took the decision yesterday to activate an operational headquarters and appoint an operational commander. there is still obviously some work to be done before the launch of this mission, namely on operational planning and on force generation. but let me say that the decision on establishing the operation being taken less than one month after the european council was asking, or tasking, for preparation on that is an absolute record. i was told that it normally takes six to ten months to take the decision to establish an operation. i know that time is not in itself an element of evaluation, but in this case time is an element of urgency that we need to face, especially when summer is coming. so i have to say that i think that this is the best way of addressing the issue of better and more effective csdp in europe, specifically using the instruments we have on the basis of the situations we are facing on a day-to-day basis. let me remind you in this hemicycle that it is exactly one month today since we faced that tragedy in the mediterranean sea when 700 to 800 hundred people died. it is still not enough, we still have a lot more work to do in different areas, but i think that for the first time we can say that we have a quick and european response to this crisis. still, the preparation of a csdp mission in the mediterranean and the reinforcement of the existing csdp mission, especially the one in niger that was decided last week, are only two elements, important ones but only two elements of our strategy to tackle this challenge. last week the commission presented the european agenda on migration – which this house will be debating tomorrow – outlining the immediate measures to respond to the crisis in the mediterranean, both on the humanitarian and on the security side, and the steps to be taken, both immediate ones and the long-term ones. let me stress here that no member state can be left alone – should not be left alone – to face the huge migratory pressure, as this is a european responsibility. i think that finally we are beginning to realise that. the way forward is, and will still be, hard and long, but we are probably now starting to realise that. we are finally proposing a european response which has never been the case before: combining internal and external policies, working together as europeans on the immediate humanitarian emergency, on the security situation, as well as the root causes in countries of origin and transit. tackling the root causes means tackling poverty, unequal access to resources, be they natural or financial, tackling conflicts, crises and the violation of human rights; conflicts and crises, starting obviously with libya, and the support we are giving to the dialogue led by bernardino león. this is specifically what ‘comprehensive approach’ means. to me the point is to make this comprehensive approach – which i understand is also sometimes criticised in the danjean report – real, to make it happen, to make it work, using all the instruments that we have – and they are many – and achieving more coherence among the different instruments and the way we are using them. we need that more than ever. since december 2013, when the european leaders took some decisions on security and defence, you have all said that the security situation in and around the european union has changed dramatically. it has clearly not changed in a positive way. the concurrency, intensity, frequency and complexity of conflicts and crises in our neighbourhood is unique and the speed with which this has happened is even more unique. that is also why we need to seriously rethink our way of building security while we manage the urgency of current crises. that is also why we need a strategy to move ahead. the demand for the european union to act as a provider of security is increasing and will, most probably, continue to increase. we will only be able to respond to this demand in a credible way if we make the csdp more effective and if we make sure we have the right kinds of capabilities, which in turn needs a solid, defence industrial base. the european council in june will be an occasion to take stock of progress in this regard and to show the way ahead. i have just presented my report to the foreign affairs council, ahead of the june council, and simultaneously the commission delivered its report on the implementation of its 2013 defence communication. both documents register progress in most areas where the european council in 2013 set tasks, and point to areas where we need, and we can have, further progress. i would say we need, we can and we must have further progress. we worked on this just yesterday, as you mentioned, with the defence and foreign ministers together, putting together – this is also a comprehensive approach – different sides of our csdp work. among the achievements i can mention, we have the adoption of the eu’s first comprehensive maritime strategy and action plan, or the cyber policy framework. i would like to mention specifically one element: the security development nexus. on this, i think we learned an important lesson from the csdp training missions in somalia, in mali and in niger, which is that the troops we train must often be supplied with equipment – tents, uniforms, radios, basic infrastructure. at the end of april the commission adopted a joint communication based on my proposal to enable the european union to train and equip the forces of local partners. it was addressed to the council and to parliament and i count on your support to take this forward, as it would be an extremely relevant and precious step. being completely frank, as you are, there are also areas where the picture is much less encouraging. i am thinking of rapid response where the lack of political will has so far made it impossible to move. i know this is frustrating for many members of this parliament. it is frustrating for me, as well. force generation, too, is problematic. i raised this with ministers yesterday in a very clear and open way. if we take decisions then we need to translate them into action. this is a matter of being operational, this is also a matter of credibility, and this means taking responsibilities in the member states with concrete decisions to follow up on force generation. i also know that some of you are very eager to see the full potential of csdp-related articles of the lisbon treaty fully used. the relevant sections of mr danjeanʼs report are very precious in this regard and let me say that i am completely determined to work with your support, with your help, to build the political conditions for having this done. progress has also remained limited on csdp financing more broadly. indeed, the tension between our level of ambition and the level of resources has grown even bigger. the kukan and tarand report rightly raises a number of issues for both civilian and military csdp financing. on cost saving and efficiency measures in civilian missions: we will continue working with the commission to facilitate a faster deployment of civilian missions and improvements in the financial management. in that context, i would like to stress the importance of sufficient payment appropriations for the cfsp budget. on financing of military operations, the review of the athena mechanism took place recently. a new council decision was adopted at the end of march. while largely inconclusive, these debates will continue. i am ready, and most of all i am willing, to support and to lead the debate among member states and, i hope, to lead it to some results. this is going to be key. the question of burden-sharing among member states, which is what this question is, is crucial and needed if we are to face a future – and hopefully also a present – csdp that really works. as the demand for csdp will remain high, we also need to fill our defence capability gaps. at a time of reduced public spending, the pooling and sharing of capacities and resources, especially of high-end capabilities, is more than ever a recipe that can reconcile possibilities and needs in this regard. we have made some important steps toward implementing collaborative projects. we agreed back in 2013 on air-to-air refuelling capacity, remotely piloted craft systems, satellite communications and cyber. their development, notably on the first of these projects, is now in an advanced stage but i made it very clear to the ministers yesterday that we also need to embark on new collaborative projects. we have to bring forward the ones that we already have, and we need to put new ones on the table. this parliament has calculated – as you said, we do not need to be imaginative, we need to read the things that we already know and make them real – that the cost of non-europe in defence amounts to some eur 26 billion per year, an enormous amount of money, especially in these times, and more than that, as we are all politicians in this room, 70% of european citizens support more integration in defence. this is the clearest call for action that we could receive and i count on your support. count, please, on my full determination to make this real, to have more european integration in defence. we also need to spend better, and better together. this is a crucial point, especially in these times of austerity, and we need to focus on the output. we need to invest too in our partnerships. the one with nato – that is essential. hybrid, non-linear risks: i have put a premium on enhanced cooperation and contingency planning. if the old debate on a nato-eu rivalry ever had any sense it does not anymore; it does not make any sense in these times. i was happy to welcome the nato secretary-general, jens stoltenberg, yesterday at our ministerial meeting, just as i was happy to be at the foreign ministers nato meeting last week in antalya. our cooperation is increasing, not only our cooperation at the highest political level, but staff-to-staff cooperation is also going on very well. we are different in nature, but we have some common points on the agenda that we can coordinate and cooperate on. the other extremely relevant cooperation we have to invest in is the one with the united nations. all member states have just agreed on a new action plan to announce eu support for un peacekeeping, and the un secretary general ban ki-moon will be at the foreign affairs council on 22 june. we need to work on different aspects on different levels, as your reports clearly identify. the gomes report on the impact of developments in european defence markets on the security and defence capabilities in europe indicates that the competitiveness of the european defence industry is a priority, and i fully support this. a strong competitive european defence industrial base needs more cooperation between member states, a more efficient internal market, more robust security of supply guarantees, competitive and integrated supply chains, and support for research and innovation. a healthy industrial base is indeed key in support of any credible defence policy as, among others, it generates cutting-edge programmes, innovation with spillover effects into the civilian domain and vice versa, and a highly skilled workforce that accounts for 400 000 direct and 960 000 indirect jobs across europe. at the same time, our industry faces a wide range of challenges both at the global and at the european level: increasingly globalised supply chains, increased defence of said demands, global shifts in defence spending. our ratio regarding r&d investment is 1:7 as compared to the us but, and this is the news, 1:3 in comparison with the so-called brics. the plunge in defence r&d since 2006, more than 29% in real terms, is detrimental to much needed innovation in europe and puts at risk our capability in producing defence equipment and the competitiveness of our industry. the european industrial landscape remains characterised by a fragmented demand side, a plethora of national programmes and variance of equipment, generating high costs for industry. increasingly integrated civilian military supply chains with a growing reliance on civilian technologies means that companies more and more rely on civil production in terms of turnover and revenues. if nothing is done, we could face the risk in the longer term of having a lower level of technological sophistication due to slower rates of innovation. we could also face decreasing competitiveness with the ultimate loss of production capacities and jobs and thus increasing dependence on foreign supplies – and we are talking about the european union. the gomes report also highlights the need for a full and correct implementation of the two defence directives of 2009 with a view to opening up the defence market chains for companies from all over europe. an open and transparent european defence equipment market is a precondition for our defence companies to access european supply chains in view of building strategic and sustainable alliances with european partners. i fully share the objective to ensure the effective implementation of the defence procurement and the defence transfers directives. the commission has started evaluating the defence directives and in 2016 will report to parliament and council on their implementation and on whether they have achieved their objectives. in december 2013, heads of state and government called for more investment in cooperative research programmes, more synergies between defence and civil research, as well as for a preparatory action on csdp-related research to be set up. here we have three avenues. first, collaborative defence r&t. the european defence agency (eda) has a longstanding track record in defence r&t projects and programmes. second, dual-use research, and third, the establishment of the preparatory action on csdp-related research, a potential game-changer testing the viability of defence-oriented and csdp-related research at european union level. the commission has the lead here, but the eda, having long experience in defence r&t, can provide support. joint commission-eda workshops with stakeholders to discuss the modalities, content and the process to establish such a preparatory action, are paving the way. another potential game-changer could be the council mandate on developing a european union-wide security and supply regime. security of supply is essential for the sustainment of operations, the development of long-term planning and cooperation, and the functioning of the internal market for defence. we expect the roadmap for the comprehensive eu-wide security of supply regime in early 2016. to conclude, let me thank you for the work you have done, for the work of this parliament in general on csdp, and also on the preparation for the june council. i know you have been working very hard and intensively on this and this is extremely helpful. let me conclude by mentioning those 7 000 men and women who are currently deployed under the eu flag in military and civilian missions under dangerous and difficult conditions, from afghanistan to somalia, from mali to the central african republic. i want to end my comments today by saluting the work of men and women deployed in the field under the eu flag and thank them for what they are doing. this is what we should remember all the time: that our discussions, our decisions, are then translated in their work on a daily basis, in very difficult conditions, for the security of our citizens, the stability of the regions where they are deployed and peace in our world. (applause)
on behalf of the alde club. madam president, madam high representative, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to start by congratulating mr dané, mr kukana, mr tarand and mrs gomes on the very clear and open reports they have produced, and i think it is important to note that the council of the european union has also expressed similar views in its conclusions yesterday, as has the high representative, whom i congratulate on the open and encouraging communication she has within the council of the european union. i will only mention the most important council conclusions, namely that the security environment in europe has changed dramatically in recent years, that there is a need for a stronger and more effective european security and defence policy, and the council stresses the importance of a new strategic approach to european foreign and security and defence policy. i will mention only one practical, concrete point in the council conclusions concerning the objectives set by the european defence agency in 2007 for cooperation in the field of joint and total procurement and research. it should be stressed that none of these conclusions and objectives of the european defence agency with regard to joint and overall procurement and research investments has been achieved. so, all is said and all has been said for a long time. the european council meeting in november 2016 should therefore be expected to lay the foundations for a stronger, new and more effective european defence and security policy.
madam president, first of all, i would like to thank my colleague danjean for his excellent cooperation on the report. the dramatically changed security environment along 15 000 km of european borders places an increasing responsibility on the european union to ensure stability and security in its environment, without seeking further alibis and shifting or evading responsibility. we need more effective coordination of internal and external policies, upgrading of existing instruments and innovative defence technology. in short, it is high time for a better common security and defence policy, which has so far mostly been a dilemma. i welcome the council's readiness, as expressed in yesterday's conclusions, to intensify cooperation between member states and with international partners. i hope that the determination expressed on paper will be translated into concrete actions in practice. in these turbulent times, when local crises can very quickly escalate into regional and even global ones, we have a unique opportunity to revise and strengthen our common foreign and security policy. the global security system established in san francisco in 1944 and helsinki in 1975 is in need of a new upgrade.
madam vice-president, high representative mogherini, colleagues and fellow rapporteurs danjean, kukan, tarand and gomes, i thank you for the input you have made over the past months, which i myself have contributed as one of the shadow rapporteurs. i believe that the emancipatory debate on the common european security and defence policy is the right moment, given the many global, security and political challenges of crises not only worldwide but particularly in the european union's immediate neighbourhood, where the entire credibility of our political project is called into question if we are not effective in dealing with the crises in our eastern neighbourhood and in the mediterranean. i therefore welcome this maritime mission which was established yesterday at council level. i believe that the issue of illegal migration must be prevented most urgently and that as close as possible to the source of that problem - that is the southern shore of the mediterranean, and i would also like to hear from our high representative what further considerations are in the council on the initiative of the ukrainian foreign minister who very clearly and explicitly asked for the possible establishment of a european security and defence policy mission in ukraine - we cannot ignore this issue given the circumstances in which we are today and the possible correlation with the osce mission. i welcome all that we have said in these reports about more efficient financing of european security and defence policy and developing our industrial and technological base.
the question he raised by raising his blue card. dear mr peterle, you have just mentioned in one sentence what i was going to say later if i get catch the eye, but that is never certain, and that is why i want to ask you if you really agree with me that this security and defence policy should be coordinated in some way with the western balkan countries or if nothing else at least seriously consider everything that is happening in the unstable balkans in the form of a european union security policy.
madam president, the situation ascertained in these reports is true and cannot be disputed. europe has indeed failed to realise its desire and ambition to be an indispensable player in solving the world's security crises. the conflict in ukraine exposes the devastating fact that european foreign policy has made no progress at all in the last 25 years. in this case, the member states behaved towards the russian invader as they did towards the aggressor in croatia in the early 1990s - incoherently, selfishly and above all indecisively. it is clear that the great powers are defending their interests when it comes to relations with former colonies or trading partners. i could say that it's understandable and natural, but then let's not pretend to be something we're not and spend huge amounts of taxpayer money on programs that, while the character of this community is what it is, will always offer only partial solutions.
written. a number of foreign policy issues were on the agenda of this plenary session, but i would like to put particular emphasis on the european union's security and defence policy, given that the occupation of ukraine has not yet ended and that the conflicts in syria and iraq are still ongoing and pose a direct threat to the security of the union. we must be prepared to respond adequately to contemporary security challenges by establishing a coordinated common security policy involving all eu member states, regardless of size and economic power. united in diversity has been the union's motto since 2000, and despite our differences, i am convinced that there are many more similarities that unite the peoples of the eu, which are key to cooperation and to establishing a common position on the union. the security of our citizens and a secure environment is a priority for the union, although in a turbulent environment it is very difficult to distinguish between external and internal security, so we must be consistent in coordinating our strategies within and outside the eu using existing instruments to respond more effectively to humanitarian requests, because the fight against terrorism and organised crime knows no borders.
mr. president, the protection of life and the promotion of common human values is the policy of the hungarian government, which is also embedded in the hungarian constitution. the introduction of the death penalty is contrary to my values and the values promoted by the official hungarian government, so i have reviewed mr orban's statements and i have not found a statement that incriminates him. from this i can conclude that malicious constructs are being deliberately created and the reason for this is the weakness of those who cannot win the elections against viktor orban because the hungarian people respect him because he protects their interests and does so without reservation. i didn't see any statement that the door would be closed to migrants and asylum seekers, but he said he would ask citizens what they thought about the european union's migration strategy. i am surprised that the hungarian government relies on a model of public debate and consultation with citizens on issues important to hungary because such democratic communication could be followed by many other prime ministers who come from the ranks of the socialists and who do not want to call a referendum even when 1/3 of the voters ask them to.
mr president, madam commissioner, fellow rapporteurs, i would like to welcome the new legislation and say that it is a great step forward. but i think it's just one step forward. so something that's definitely positive, something that shows that we want to deal with those who launder money, who fund terrorism, who steal from our citizens, our economy, our budgets, and i think that's a great initiative and we have great solutions. however, what i see as a problem are two things: 1. the fact that everything will now depend in some way on the activities and desires of the member states and their success in combating this crime, money laundering and terrorist financing as well as the problem of third countries. we must be absolutely clear here - we will not solve this problem unless we cooperate actively with third countries.
mr president, commissioner, rapporteur, we need european regulation when we talk about bankruptcy and insolvency of families or individuals. the experiences differ in our member states, but the result is the same - people are desperate. either they are being put out of business by irresponsible owners who, at least in the new countries, the new democracies, have often stolen from businesses or, as you said, honourable members, they have been taken in by inadequate advice and today they have loans with too high interest rates. your message is perfectly clear. unfortunately, we have a situation where people don't know how to proceed anymore. and that is why i support this regulation because i am convinced that in this way we demonstrate the need to introduce in europe and in all member states an institution of personal bankruptcy and opportunity for every individual in europe.
mr. president, the council should take responsibility and make a statement. it's a real phenomenon that it's been so many years since the first directive, and we haven't reached a consensus. the commission's position, which calls for a fresh start, is equally surprising. what new things could a new proposal or a new directive bring - i think there is nothing new that could be added without continuing negotiations on the current proposal. however, we know that social and family policy is largely a member state competence. how a member state handles this issue depends largely on its economic situation. however, it seems to me, when i look at these statistics, that the worse the country is economically, the better the social rights. in croatia, where i come from, women are entitled to 26 weeks of full paid maternity leave and then six months of fixed, reduced pay, and men can decide whether they want to take the maternity leave role. i therefore think that the member states should indeed make a statement on this in the council, but if they are not already in a position then at least with a new directive to support the member states' positions. (the rapporteur agreed to answer the 'blue card' question (article 162 (8) of the regulation)).
the question he raised by raising his blue card. mrs. schuca, first of all, thank you for accepting the blue card. you mentioned croatia and i'm glad about that because i wanted to talk about how we have good examples in our european union and it means that croatia can be a good example. i ask you, do you agree with me that it is almost unbelievable that some member countries that are certainly much richer than croatia are blocking further access and further resolution of this very important issue for all of us sitting here late at night, because we want to finally resolve this very difficult situation when it comes to the rights of women and mothers?
answer the question posed by raising the blue card. mr. jakovčić, you are right on the threshold of what i was talking about, that the situation is inversely proportional to the growth and economic strength of the society in relation to the social policy we have in croatia. i therefore think that the council should consider and answer this question, and the commission cannot ask for a fresh start either, because we must continue with this. discrimination against women is out of the question; today it is about equality, about equality in the labour market, and we must have the strength to reach a common compromise and a conceptual proposal that will make it possible for women to be equal in today's free european society.
mr president, i think that countries should decide for themselves how many asylum seekers they can take in because croatia, for example, does not have adequate accommodation capacity for asylum seekers whose numbers have increased dramatically in the last few years. it is now required to take additional care of 1.73% of asylum seekers who reach the shores of italy, malta or greece. today it's one number, relatively small, tomorrow we'll have to take care of so much more, in the next few months maybe a little more, and so on indefinitely. this migration policy is leading to nothing but social disaster, because a country that has entered its seventh year of crisis, whose own population is increasingly being displaced and where more and more people are poor because of the lack of jobs, cannot be expected to provide quality care for african migrants. croatia has nothing to offer these people, unfortunately, except misery while they wait for their process to be completed. so i think we need to tackle the problem much more decisively at its source, in africa, because this influx of migrants will lead to the collapse of the social and security systems in many member states.
mr president, i would like to express my support for the commission, which has come forward with concrete proposals, and for the council. i am absolutely convinced that we are finally facing a serious solution and we all hope together for our common success. what i want to emphasize here is that i hear all the time that we need an australian model. ladies and gentlemen, we are europe, not australia. so we need a european model, created together with the member states in the way that it is presented here. i am convinced that we must also act in the countries from which migrants come, that we must act in terms of the causes of this disaster that is happening in the mediterranean and, unfortunately, on the eastern borders of the european union. so i think we should extend a hand to anyone who needs our hand, but of course we should also be very careful about those who want to abuse our hand.
written. i welcome this document because it is a good step forward for the member states of the european union to share responsibility for migration in a way that is solidarity-based. commitments on paper must now be honoured in practice. member states must demonstrate their ability to find common solutions to the mass influx of migrants, but this solution cannot be focused on the eu alone. it is therefore important for countries in transition and countries of origin to align their approach to prevent traffickers from transporting migrants to the eu. it is also important to carry out information campaigns in the host countries to discourage potential migrants from travelling, as it has been shown that almost two thirds of asylum applications are rejected and that migrants, after having undergone an extremely difficult and expensive journey, are ultimately returned to the countries from which they came in the vast majority of cases. it also showed that development aid from the eu to third countries is certainly not well targeted because it does not improve the quality of life of the local population, who then literally put their lives on the line to find a better life. the document represents a significant step forward in the response to the tragedies in the mediterranean and, if adopted, will reflect solidarity among member states.
written. the crisis is a reality for many citizens of the member states. however, millions of people live in much more brutal conditions in our immediate neighborhood. for them, and the eu, the troubled one is a promised land compared to the desperation from which they must flee. refugees are victims of a triple threat: devastation in their home countries, the greed of human traffickers, and the front lines of rejection in the countries where they want to continue living. refugees must not remain a problem only for the member states whose borders and coasts they reach. the commission reacted quickly. the council with some hesitation. the differences are in the extent to which the commission defends the common european interests and the council represents the interests of the member states. the eu has taken in one million of the world's 12 million refugees. lebanon, a country of 6 million people, has 1.2 million refugees. if the union is to be judged by how it treats the most needy in society, and migrants certainly are, then we need to seriously review current migration policies and fundamentally reform them. that is why i support the commission's proposals.
written. migration has become a major concern for the eu following the large wave of refugees and migrants arriving in europe by land or by boat across the mediterranean sea. in the first two months of 2015 alone, 26,600 illegal border crossings were recorded, as well as 1829 casualties at sea border crossings. the commission has therefore set up a new european agenda on migration, which sets common policy objectives for the 28 member states to adopt criteria and legislate on migration. the current system cannot cope with the increasing influx of migrants, which is further empowered and accelerated by the profits made by smugglers from numerous war-torn areas, which encourage people to flee and where the basic human rights that migrants should have are not respected. the commission therefore proposes mandatory quotas for member states to relocate the many migrants who have managed to reach the eu, so that the first countries to be hit do not bear the full burden of asylum, namely italy, greece and malta. the new mechanism is based on the size of the member state, gdp, unemployment rate and number of existing asylum applications.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the 2016 parliamentary session schedule as i consider that the proposal put forward by the conference of presidents is well thought out, balanced and in line with parliament's rules of procedure. i have not found any defect or deficiency in the proposal submitted.
written. ‒ the adoption of the 2016 parliamentary session schedule has opened up a frequently asked question on the total cost of the european parliament for bicameral sessions. with respect to the historical connotations of the city of strasbourg in the historical memory of western europe, and in terms of the reconciliation between the european peoples after the two great wars of the 20th century, and bearing in mind that the majority of the eu institutions are based in brussels, i believe that after 70 years it is necessary to turn this page and look to the future. at a time when the south-east of the eu is gripped by debt, when citizens are becoming poorer and politicians, governments and all levels of public administration are daily called out for the unnecessary spending of taxpayers' money, i feel it is necessary to react again and call for a decision on a seat for the european parliament to be taken as soon as possible.
written. ‒ i support the proposal for the calendar for the next calendar year as it fulfils the obligations of a regular number of plenary sessions in brussels and strasbourg and is fully complementary to the existing rules of procedure of the european parliament.
written. ‒ i supported the adoption of the european parliament's agenda because i believe that it regulates the dynamics of the european parliament's sessions in an efficient way and in line with current practice. the adopted calendar of parliament's sittings for 2016 maintains the twelve four-day plenary sessions of the european parliament in strasbourg and introduces two-day plenary sessions in brussels. in view of the increasing scope of parliament's work and powers following the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon, i believe that the two-day mini-plenary session planned in brussels will also contribute to the efficiency of the work.
written. ‒ i support the 2016 agenda, which is important for the quality of the preparation of the european parliament's debates.
written. - i support this report. the commission has also been informed that the union's macro-financial assistance to the countries of central and eastern europe (cee) and the mediterranean (mfa) is limited to the amount of eur 100000000 in commitment appropriations and eur 500000000 in payment appropriations.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the draft legislative resolution of the european parliament on the draft council decision on the conclusion, on behalf of the european union and its member states, of the additional protocol to the trade, development and cooperation agreement between the european community and its member states, of the one part, and the republic of south africa, of the other part, to take account of the accession of croatia to the european union, as technical and linguistic adjustments are necessary for croatia to become a full contracting party. croatia, as a member of the european union, is thus also part of the bilateral and regional cooperation established in 1999 with the republic of south africa. this agreement provides support to the country concerned in its economic and social transition, and i consider that it simultaneously promotes political dialogue in areas of common interest,
written. ‒ i support the recommendation of mr davos, member of the european parliament, giving its consent to the conclusion of the protocol to the trade, development and cooperation agreement between the european community and its member states and the republic of south africa, to take account of the accession of the republic of croatia to the european union. the agreement was signed in 1999 and entered into force in 2004. the purpose of the agreement is to enhance bilateral cooperation by increasing dialogue between the signatory parties, to assist south africa in the process of economic and social transition and to promote regional cooperation and integration. the revised text of the 2009 agreement included cooperation in the areas of democracy and human rights, and the fight against poverty, terrorism and organised crime, which is a major problem in south africa. since the republic of croatia has become a member of the european union, it is necessary to sign an additional protocol in order for croatia to join the agreement and enjoy the same conditions as other member states and to participate in the development of south africa. the changes to the supplementary protocol are technical. croatian-south african relations are very good and there has never been any dispute between the two countries. trade and economic relations have been developing more and more recently alongside political relations. by helping south africa, we are also helping the croats who live there, and who are mostly on humanitarian missions.
‒ the trade, development and cooperation agreement (tdca) between the eu and its member states and the republic of south africa is a bilateral agreement which aims, in the process of economic and social transition, to promote regional cooperation and the economic integration of the country, the global economy and to extend and liberalise bilateral trade in goods, services and capital. the agreement also establishes a regular political dialogue on issues of common interest at bilateral and regional level. i supported the additional protocol to this agreement because, in that sense, it governs the relations of the republic of croatia as a member state of the european union and the republic of south africa and represents an opportunity to establish more effective partnerships and more profitable trade links with that part of the world. in particular, i emphasise the retroactive application of the provisions of the agreement from 1 july 2013, which will allow croatian economic operators, after the entry into force of the additional protocol, to request from the customs authorities the refund of customs duties paid on goods imported from 1 july 2013 on the basis of subsequently issued proofs of origin of the goods.
written. ‒ the proposed council decision aims to approve the additional protocol to the eu-south africa tdca agreement in view of the accession of croatia to the eu, on behalf of the union and its member states. on 24 september 2012, the council authorised the commission to open negotiations with south africa in order to conclude the additional protocol. those negotiations were successfully concluded on 19 may 2014. the additional protocol was approved by the council on 9 october 2014 and by south africa at the end of december 2014. the additional protocol aims, inter alia, to introduce into the tdca several technical and linguistic adaptations required by the accession of croatia to the european union, which are also necessary to enable the republic of croatia to become a contracting party to the tdca. the commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down the technical specifications for the use of the technical specifications for the aircraft. the revised trade, development and cooperation agreement between the eu and its member states of 2009 introduces a number of interesting changes to the guidelines for combating money laundering, terrorist financing and organised crime, combating the production and trade of small arms and light weapons and their accumulation, and preventing mercenary activities. the revised agreement also provides an unwavering basis for the work of the international criminal court to end impunity and contribute to the administration of international justice. on these points, i support the report by mr stier on the conclusion of the additional protocol.
written. ‒ as a croatian member of the european parliament, i strongly support this recommendation on a draft council decision on the conclusion, on behalf of the european union and its member states, of the additional protocol to the trade, development and cooperation agreement between the european community and its member states, of the one part, and the republic of south africa (tdca), of the other part, to take account of the accession of the republic of croatia to the european union. croatia became a full member of the european union in 2013 and as such has assumed all the rights and obligations conferred on it by the treaty of accession, including the application of this agreement. since the european union acts on behalf of the states by the act of accession, the council has in this case conducted all the necessary negotiations on the additional procedures set out in the additional protocol. the additional protocol provides for only certain technical and linguistic adaptations and its adoption makes croatia one of the contracting parties to the tdca.
written. ‒ i supported the amendment of the trade, development and cooperation agreement with the republic of south africa to take account of croatia's accession to the european union. the ratification of the treaty is necessary in order to apply the same rules as those which the eu has with the republic of south africa on trade, development and cooperation to the relationship between croatia and the republic of south africa following croatia's accession to the eu. the additional protocol aims to adapt several technical and linguistic parts as required by the accession of croatia to the eu. the signing of the additional protocol is necessary in order to enable the republic of croatia to achieve the status of contracting party to the agreement. it adds croatian terms used in traffic certificates. the commission has also received comments from the united kingdom on the application of the provisions of the agreement on the european economic area (eea) and the agreement on the international carriage of goods by road (the 'agreement') to the agreement on the european economic area (the 'agreement'). the agreement, first signed in 1999 in pretoria, establishes a regular political dialogue on issues of common interest at bilateral and european level. in addition to economic cooperation, other provisions of the treaty cover many other areas of cooperation, such as social cooperation relating to freedom of association, labour rights, the rights of the child, equality between women and men, the fight against violence against women, the environment, climate change, cultural cooperation and the fight against aids.
written. ‒ as the agreement on trade, development and cooperation between the european community and its member states, of the one part, and the republic of south africa, of the other part, entered into force on 1 may 2004, it was necessary to conclude an additional protocol to take account of the accession of the republic of croatia to the eu. it is important to emphasise that the acceptance of the additional protocol is necessary for the republic of croatia to become a contracting party to the trade, development and cooperation agreement. this would enhance bilateral dialogue between the european community and its member states and the republic of south africa, expand bilateral trade in goods, services and capital and also establish a political dialogue on issues of common interest at bilateral and regional level. for all the above reasons, i support the above report.
written. ‒ i have supported the recommendation on a draft council decision on the conclusion, on behalf of the european union and its member states, of the additional protocol to the trade, development and cooperation agreement (tdca) between the european community and its member states, of the one part, and the republic of south africa, of the other part, to take account of the accession of croatia to the european union. the tdca was signed in pretoria on 11 october 1999 and was intended to enhance bilateral cooperation in a number of areas. it pursues a number of objectives: strengthening bilateral dialogue, supporting south africa in its economic and social transition process, promoting regional cooperation and the economic integration of the country within south africa and the global economy, and expanding and liberalising bilateral trade in goods, services and capital. the objective of the proposed council decision is to approve the additional protocol to the tdca between the eu and south africa, taking into account the accession of croatia to the eu, on behalf of the union and its member states. the additional protocol only seeks to make in the tdca a few technical and linguistic adjustments required by croatia's accession to the eu. the signature of the additional protocol is necessary to enable the republic of croatia to become a contracting party to the tdca. the additional protocol adds the croatian language to the list of tdca source languages and lays down transitional provisions for goods in transit or in temporary storage in croatia or in south africa, or between both countries.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the draft council decision on the conclusion of an additional protocol to the agreement on trade, development and cooperation between the european community and its member states to take account of the accession of the republic of croatia to the european union. the protocol, although of a technical nature, enables the republic of croatia to become a contracting party to the agreement and to continue to represent the interests of the croatian economy in south africa. the european union membership opens up numerous market access opportunities for croatia in view of the trade agreements that the european union has concluded or will conclude with third countries. along with good political relations, trade between the republic of croatia and south africa is developing more and more as well as economic relations. therefore, i consider technical changes such as the introduction of the croatian language in the list of official languages in the trade, development and cooperation agreement to be of the utmost importance in order to be able to adopt and be duly informed of the texts related to the agreement as a contracting party.
mr president, i supported the adoption of the recommendation for the second reading of the revision of the aml directive to continue to work in this important area, which will further ensure the prevention, investigation and detection of money laundering and unacceptable terrorist financing. in view of the reality of armed conflicts surrounding the european union, i support the introduction of additional measures to ensure more transparent financial transfers in order to strengthen the internal market and further secure the financial system of the union. in this regard, i support ensuring transparent information through the publication of the register of beneficial owners, where member states will be required to ensure that central, commercial or company registers in their countries contain beneficial ownership information available to competent authorities, while ensuring full accountability for the proper application of data protection.
mr president, the issue of preventing money laundering and terrorism is of paramount importance at the level of all member states, as failure to prevent it seriously undermines the stability of the union's financial system and, in the case of terrorism, the stability of society as a whole. that's why we're obliged to fight and take all the action against these activities. i therefore supported the proposed recommendations and amendments to the directive which put special efforts into preventing these phenomena. it is proposed to define the data to be contained in the public company register for the purpose of a high-quality exchange of information and to carry out a risk assessment of the impact of money laundering and terrorist financing on the market every 6 months, with a particular focus on cross-border activities. we all want to prevent and strengthen legislation - this is a step towards that.
written. ‒ back in 2013, the european commission presented two proposals to combat money laundering and terrorist financing. the social democrats' club in the ep has proposed an amendment requiring the public disclosure of corporate beneficiaries for the legitimate public interest. i believe that the text voted will contribute to a transparent system of financing within the eu.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the draft legislative resolution of the european parliament on the council position at first reading with a view to adopting a directive of the european parliament and of the council on the prevention of the use of the financial system for the purpose of money laundering or terrorist financing, amending regulation (eu) no 648/2012 of the european parliament and of the council and repealing directive 2005/60/ec of the european parliament and of the council and commission directive 2006/70/ec, as it seeks to strengthen the eu's anti-money laundering regime. removing barriers to the creation of an internal market makes it easier to do business legally in the eu, but also creates opportunities for money transfer from illegal activities, money laundering, terrorist financing. money laundering and terrorist financing, with potentially far-reaching consequences for society, also pose risks to the functioning, reputation, integrity and stability of the financial system. the aim of this regulation is also to protect the existing financial system and to prevent illegal financial activities. in line with the changes that are occurring more rapidly with further liberalisation and the development of the technology available to crime, it is necessary to adapt the legal framework to prevent such threats.
written. ‒ recommendation for second reading adopted on 11 may 2015 at the council's first reading with a view to the adoption of a directive of the european parliament and of the council on the prevention of the use of the financial system for the purpose of money laundering and terrorist financing, amending regulation (eu) no 648/2012 of the european parliament and of the council and repealing directive 2005/60/ec of the european parliament and of the council and commission directive 2006/70/ec. the european parliament hereby adopts the first reading and endorses the recommendation for the second reading, having regard to the council's position at first reading (05933/4/2015-c8-0109/2015), and having regard to the opinion of the european central bank of 17 may 2013 and the opinion of the european economic and social committee of 23 may 2013, having regard to article 294 (7) of the treaty on the functioning of the european union, and in accordance with the joint debate of the committee on economic and monetary affairs and the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs (a 08-153/2015). it is also in line with article 294 (7) of the treaty on the functioning of the european union. for all the above reasons, i support this recommendation of my colleagues kariņš and sargentini.
written. ‒ i support the reports of meps karnis and sergetini because i believe that large flows of illicit money can lead to the complete destabilisation of the financial sector and jeopardise the single market and international development. factors that facilitate illegal activities and flows are secret corporate structures or tax havens that are almost impossible to detect. i welcome the work of the commission to carry out a risk assessment covering the areas of the internal market that are exposed to higher risks and to obtain information on suspected parties from member states and non-members in order to prevent further abuse of the financial system. i also welcome the european parliament's report which proposes the introduction of a register of owners whose member states will have to provide all information on companies and their 'beneficial owners' located in the eu and to take into account branches and offices located outside the eu's jurisdiction. it is also important to emphasise that there are cases where strict identification procedures are required, and this applies to individuals in public office in countries where corruption is widespread, and i also welcome the member states' request that the identity of parties and beneficial owners be verified before business is established and transactions are entered into.
written. ‒ i consider it extremely important to prevent the financial system from being used for money laundering and terrorist financing. the commission should be able to take into account the specificities of the member states' national laws and regulations, in particular the requirements of the directive on the prevention of money laundering and terrorist financing, and the need to ensure that the rules on the prevention of money laundering and terrorist financing are applied in a uniform manner. although the eu has a well-developed framework for combating money laundering and terrorist financing, over the years the rules have evolved and the scope has been widened, with each change aimed at removing opportunities that criminals and terrorists could exploit. i am committed to strengthening the internal market by reducing cross-border complexity, protecting societal interests from crime and terrorist acts, supporting financial stability by safeguarding the sound functioning and integrity of the financial system and protecting the economic prosperity of the european union by ensuring an efficient business environment.
written. ‒ having regard to the council position at first reading (05933/4/2015 c8-0109/2015), the opinion of the european central bank of 17 may 2013, the opinion of the european economic and social committee of 23 may 2013, and the discussions of the committee on economic and monetary affairs and the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs, and in accordance with rule 55 of the rules of procedure, i support this recommendation for a second reading on the council position at first reading with a view to the adoption of a directive of the european parliament and of the council on the prevention of the use of the financial system for the purpose of money laundering or terrorist financing.
written. ‒ i support the commission's proposed revision of directive 2005/60/ec, as it has become necessary to strengthen the internal market, make financial transactions more transparent in an increasingly complex financial environment, support the fight against terrorism and organised crime, and strengthen the eu's financial system. member states should ensure that companies and other entities having legal personality, which are established or incorporated in their territory, or governed by their law, are required to obtain, maintain and transmit to a public central register, commercial register or company register in their territory adequate, accurate, valid and up-to-date information about them and their ownership, at the time of their incorporation, as well as any changes thereto. the registers should be interconnected and accessible to authorities and obliged entities. member states may grant access to information to other parties and lay down rules on the basis of which the register may be accessed.
written. ‒ money laundering and the closely related development of organised crime pose a threat to the stability of individual economies, but also have a major impact on global economic flows. the main purpose of transactions involving illicitly acquired money is to funnel it into financial flows or to move it out of the country. i therefore believe that closer cooperation between member states and better harmonisation of national justice systems are essential. i find the proposals which indicate measures aimed at facilitating the investigation and prosecution of illegal activities related to the exchange of money for crimes such as terrorism, corruption and illicit trade to be very useful. we must realize that this is a complex process in which new techniques are constantly being applied, and criminals who engage in illegal activities are becoming more and more sophisticated. therefore, i support provisions that emphasize transparency and the availability of information on bank and wireless money transactions so that loopholes in the law are not exploited for illegal activities. the commission considers that the new rules on the protection of individuals with regard to the processing of personal data should be based on the principles of proportionality and non-discrimination. that's why i voted yes.
mr. chairman, i have supported this motion as well as the previous motion. this proposed amendment to european legislation extends the information to be collected for individual transfers of funds. on the one hand, of course, this collection of information will lead to consumers feeling that information about them is being collected, which is their private environment, on the other hand, it is necessary to bear in mind that today international terrorism is financed by money flowing into the european union from third countries. therefore, it is necessary to collect this information and use it in case of suspicion of possible terrorist financing. i'm in favor of the motion, but it's necessary to say that we need to ensure that this information is only used in the event that there is an investigation of a suspect and that there is a suspicion of committing, say, a serious form of crime.
mr president, in the context of preventing and detecting money laundering and terrorist financing, this regulation aims to improve the supervision of money transfers by specifying the data to be provided in the transaction of financial assets and aims to strengthen legislation and competent authorities at union level, in part by imposing sanctions. the regulation addresses highly sensitive data issues necessary to track transfers of funds and to identify the payer and the payee. this section is subject to more significant changes as the constant advancement of technology facilitates criminal activities that need to be prevented by the additional safeguards proposed. in order to ensure the accuracy, integrity and stability of the financial system, i have supported this recommendation for the second reading of the regulation on information accompanying transfers of funds.
written. ‒ i support this report, which contributes to strengthening the eu institutions in the fight against money laundering, and the almost unanimous support in the committees also shows that it is indeed a quality document. the main concern remains transfers outside eu countries. the chapter on sanctions and monitoring has been improved and the data protection provision has been better aligned within the regulation.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the draft legislative resolution of the european parliament on the council position at first reading with a view to adopting a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on information accompanying transfers of funds and repealing regulation (ec) no 1781/2006 because of the crucial importance of increasing the level of transparency when it comes to financial transactions. i consider it necessary to ensure full information on the recipient, to define the monetary amounts above which, in the case of foreign payments, additional checks and controls are required, and to strengthen the possibility of sanctions and to improve coordination between the institutions and the competent authorities. in addition, it is necessary to specify the procedures for missing or incomplete information on the payee/payer when transferring transaction funds. this is a way of strengthening the fight against organised crime and money laundering.
written. ‒ the proposed regulation revising the financial transfer regulation is necessary to improve the traceability of payments and to ensure that the union legislative framework remains fully aligned with international standards. the main objective is to establish a legislative framework that will effectively prevent and detect money laundering and terrorist financing during the transfer of funds. i therefore support the rules laid down for payment service providers on sending information on the payer of funds through the payment chain. in a context of changing nature of money laundering and terrorist financing threats, facilitated by the continuous development of technology and the means available to criminals, it is of the utmost importance to adapt quickly. this is precisely what the new regulation seeks to achieve by aligning the legislative framework with revised international standards, ensuring consistency between national rules and addressing shortcomings relating to emerging threats, and i therefore support the adoption of this regulation.
‒ recommendation for second reading of 11 may 2015 on the council position at first reading with a view to the adoption of a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the protection of data following transfers of funds with reference to first reading 1781/2006 (05932/2/2015-c8-0108/2015-2013/0024 ((cod)). the european parliament hereby adopts the first reading and endorses the recommendation for the second reading, having regard to council position 1781/2006 at first reading (05932/2/2015-c8-0108/2015-2013/0024(cod) and having regard to the opinion of the european central bank of 17 may 2013 and the opinion of the european economic and social committee of 23 may 2013, having regard to article 294 (7) of the treaty on the functioning of the european union, and in accordance with the joint debate of the committee on economic and monetary affairs and the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs (a8-0154/2015). it also complies with article 294 (7) of the treaty on the functioning of the european union. on the basis of the above, i support this recommendation of my colleagues kirkhope and simon.
written. ‒ money laundering, terrorist financing and organised crime are major problems that should be addressed at union level, as illicit money flows through transfers of funds can undermine the security, integrity, stability and reputation of the financial sector and, as a consequence, undermine the union's internal market and international development. the amendments to the regulation seek to strengthen the eu's protection against money laundering and terrorist financing while ensuring consistency with the approach applied at international level, in particular with the recommendations of the financial action task force (fatf). it is also important to emphasise that this regulation is not intended to impose unnecessary burdens or costs on payment service providers on persons using their services. in view of the above and the fact that the implementation and application of the regulation and fatf recommendation no 16 represent relevant and effective means to prevent and combat money laundering and terrorist financing, i have supported this recommendation for the second reading of the regulation on information accompanying transfers of financial assets.
written. ‒ having regard to the council's position at first reading (05932/2/2015 c8-0108/2015), the opinion of the european central bank of 17 may 2013 and the recommendation for second reading of the committee on economic and monetary affairs and the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs (a8-0154/2015), i accept this recommendation for second reading.
written. ‒ i support the report because the flow of illicit money is a major problem for the union, undermining the structure, stability and reputation of the financial sector and threatening the internal market as well as international development, and directly or indirectly undermining citizens' trust in the rule of law. the commission has also received a number of complaints from the member states concerning the use of the payment services provided by the payment service providers to the payment service providers. the commission should also be able to assess the impact of the measures on the financial markets, in particular on the financial markets, by taking into account the impact of the measures on the financial markets and the impact of the measures on the financial markets. the payment service provider shall ensure that the payment service provider is able to provide the payment service provider with the information necessary to perform the payment transaction in a timely manner.
mr president, i supported the report and hope that the proposed reform will make the bankruptcy process faster and more efficient and have a less stressful and detrimental impact on employees of companies facing liquidity problems. for workers in any country, the bankruptcy of a company is the worst nightmare. a company usually goes bankrupt when it can no longer be helped, and bankruptcy proceedings take years. the real workers are in last place. in the circumstances of the economic crisis, croatia introduced the pre-bankruptcy settlement procedure. in the croatian examples of the proceedings conducted there were at least strange things, the most strange of which was that the court did not have the jurisdiction to determine the veracity of bankruptcy claims and the debtor himself determined the claim. that's been changed in the meantime, but only after a few procedures. i therefore consider this report to be important, i welcome its adoption and i hope that it will be reflected as an incentive to change these bad situations we have witnessed in croatia.
mr president, bankruptcy and pre-bankruptcy proceedings in the member states differ significantly and thus affect both the different functioning of the single market and the resilience of the member states to economic crises. the commission shall be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 264 concerning the conditions for the participation of undertakings in the procurement procedures referred to in article 6 of regulation (eu) no 1308/2013. there is no single solution at eu level, but the recommendations per member state in the european semester are clear - legislation must be defined and procedures made as simple, fast, clear and open as possible. the croatian legislative framework in this area is rated as one of the weakest in europe and significant improvements and changes are being demanded from the government. given the importance of this regulation for the proper functioning of the single market, i was pleased to support the proposed amendments and extension of scope today.
written. ‒ i support this bankruptcy report because it improves the application of certain provisions. the technical aspects of improving its application are there, and it is certain that in the future it will be necessary to consider improving the privileged rights of workers at european level.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the draft legislative resolution of the european parliament on the council's position at first reading with a view to adopting a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on insolvency proceedings, as the phenomenon of insolvency has become a cross-border problem affecting not only large companies but also small and medium-sized enterprises throughout europe. i support the proposal to modernise the current european bankruptcy code through public consultation, and to give special attention to the needs of smes in order to increase legal certainty. i also welcome the proposals to create a european register to provide creditors with information on possible bankruptcy proceedings and to deal with the problems of group insolvencies. this further strengthens european integration and supports cross-border business activities.
written. ‒ i support the report by mr zwiefke on the amendment of the council's position at first reading with a view to the adoption of a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on insolvency proceedings, which accepts the council's position at first reading as it is in accordance with article 294 (7) of the treaty on the functioning of the european union, article 76 of the rules of procedure of the european parliament and the recommendations for the second reading of the committee on legal affairs.
written. ‒ for the proper functioning of the internal market, cross-border insolvency proceedings should be conducted in an efficient and effective manner. the activities of entrepreneurs have increasingly cross-border effects and are increasingly regulated by union law for the same reason. at the same time, the insolvency of such undertakings affects the proper functioning of the internal market and there is a need for a union act requiring the coordination of measures taken in respect of the assets of the insolvent debtor. therefore, bearing in mind that the proposed insolvency regulation seeks to increase the efficiency of cross-border insolvency proceedings in order to ensure the smooth functioning of the internal market and its resilience in economic crises, and that this objective is also in line with the current political priorities of the european union on promoting economic recovery and sustainable growth as well as higher investment and preserving employment, as set out in the europe 2020 strategy, and on protecting the development and survival of enterprises, as set out in the small business act, i have supported this recommendation for a second reading on the council position at first reading with a view to the adoption of a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on a common procedure.
written. ‒ having regard to the council's position at first reading (16636/5/2014 c8-0090/2015), to the opinion of the european economic and social committee of 22 may 2013 and to the recommendation for second reading of the committee on legal affairs (a8-0155/2015), i accept this recommendation for second reading.
written. ‒i voted in favour of this council position at first reading for the adoption of a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on insolvency proceedings. in particular, this regulation seeks to further promote a 'rescue culture' in the eu. the main elements of this regulation are the extension of the scope of the regulation to include 'preventive' insolvency proceedings aimed at rescuing undertakings, but also to cover a wider range of personal insolvency proceedings. the criteria for jurisdiction are also clarified and the procedural framework for assessing jurisdiction is improved. the establishment of a system of tax insolvency registers will increase transparency for debtors. this regulation enhances the prospects of rescuing companies by avoiding the initiation of secondary proceedings where the interests of local creditors are otherwise safeguarded and provides a legal framework for the coordination of the proceedings of members of a group of companies. it is necessary to include an additional measure to counter the phenomenon of consumers abusing the possibility of obtaining a more favourable legal position by changing jurisdiction.
written. ‒ i voted for the amendment of the insolvency regulation to focus on cross-border proceedings. the regulation lays down new rules with a set of measures aimed at preventing abuse of position in order to ensure a more favourable legal position for debtors who, for certain reasons, have become over-indebted, insolvent or illiquid. i therefore agree with the decision that member states are obliged to display the relevant data in cases of cross-border insolvency proceedings through the electronic register, which will improve transparency but also facilitate their implementation. but as a representative of a country with a sad history of over 19 000 companies that have become bankrupt, i believe that we must focus on measures that allow for the restructuring of debtors at a stage where debtors are unable to make payments because they are unable to meet their due-value obligations. the essence of bankruptcy proceedings should be the fair distribution of assets, but unfortunately we are witnessing different examples. the commission has also concluded that the measures in question constitute state aid within the meaning of article 107 (1) of the treaty.
written. ‒ i support the proposal of my colleague marie arène to introduce controls throughout the process of procuring and importing raw materials from war zones. consumers need to know that when they buy a cell phone, for example, they're not funding a war.
written. ‒ i voted against the postponement of the adoption of the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council establishing a union system for self-certification of responsible importers of tin, tantalum and tungsten, their ores and gold, originating in conflict-affected and high-risk areas, by applying due diligence in the supply chain. the chair of the inta committee requested a recess before the vote. after several consultations, the same president proposed to postpone the adoption of this report. as there was a great deal of division within the alde group, i decided to follow the party's proposals (although i was personally in favour of many other proposals) because i expected the report to be adopted and that a good regulation would finally come on the scene. however, a very narrow majority, practically "disobedient" alde deputies postponed this vote.
written. ‒ i supported the report by mep iuliu winkler on the establishment of a union system for self-certification of responsible importers of tin, tantalum and tungsten, their ores and gold originating from conflict-affected and high-risk areas by applying due diligence in the supply chain. the objective is to establish a union system of supply chain due diligence self-certification to restrict the opportunities for armed groups and security forces to trade in tin, tantalum and tungsten, their ores and gold, and to ensure transparency and security of supply for importers, smelters and refiners sourcing from conflict-affected and high-risk areas. the commission should be able to assess the impact of the measures taken by the member states on the implementation of the union's macro-financial assistance. in these areas, breaking the links between conflict and illegal mineral exploitation is crucial for peace and stability.
written. ‒ i consider it unacceptable that the european union, through the unregulated market in minerals and metals, by trading in these activities and by financing armed groups, indirectly participates and encourages the continuation of the conflict in these areas. the activities of these armed groups are linked to many grave violations of human rights, especially of women and children. since the foundation on which the european union rests is precisely this principle - respect for human rights, it is logical that this community of ours should not be a conscious participant in supporting something that does not agree with these principles. i believe that the process of self-certification of importers, with the involvement of a supervisory body that will monitor the correctness of the implementation of the process itself, will contribute to reducing criminal acts in the areas mentioned and that it is necessary to reach an agreement on the open issues as soon as possible.
written. ‒ natural mineral resources in conflict-affected and high-risk areas, despite their high development potential, can be a source of dispute, with revenues generated from them being disrupted by the outbreak or continuation of violent conflict, undermining efforts towards development, good governance and the rule of law. in these areas, breaking the links between conflict and illegal mineral exploitation is a key element in ensuring peace, development and stability. human rights violations are common in the extractive industry and may include child labour, sexual violence, forced disappearance, forced displacement and destruction of sites of ritual and cultural importance. i therefore support the report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council establishing a union system for the self-certification of responsible importers of tin, tantalum and tungsten, their ores and gold originating in conflict-affected and high-risk areas by the due diligence approach in the supply chain and the adoption of the commission proposal at first reading.
written. ‒ i support the report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council establishing a union system for self-certification of responsible importers of tin, tantalum and tungsten, their ores and gold originating in conflict-affected and high-risk areas through due diligence in the supply chain. mineral-rich countries affected by conflict are in a vicious circle where the rebels are financed by valuable mineral resources. to stop this, international organisations and the ep have called for a due diligence system between excavation companies and importers. the proposal covers 3t and g tin, tantalum, tungsten and gold, the participation of companies is voluntary, it covers any conflict affected area and it covers melting and processing companies as well as importers. importers wishing to participate may declare themselves as responsible importers of a member state and must comply with the proposed measures. it is accepted that the areas of conflict are strictly defined and that voluntary participation is mandatory for importers and for producers.
written. - i think it's important to remove the link between the mineral and the conflict. i also want to stress that we need a regulation that is applicable and appropriate. we need mandatory certification for mills and mineral processors, and we need to encourage mills and processors outside the eu to do business responsibly by including importers in the mandatory certification scheme. however, going beyond certification could be counterproductive, as it would not only be a burden for industry in the eu, but also for developing countries. we must not restrict access to the eu market for them, as this could cause job losses in underdeveloped countries. this should not be the aim of a european union regulation. by introducing applicable and appropriate certification rules for smelters and refiners, and importers of minerals and metals, we will create a system that is applicable and effective in the effort to break the link between minerals and conflict.
written. ‒ the profits from the trade in minerals with high development potential are often used to finance armed conflict and i agree that we must not allow this harmful practice to continue. it is also of particular importance in countries affected by conflict or identified as high-risk areas to dismantle the link between conflict and illicit mineral exploitation. many member states are indeed dependent on imports of these ores and metals found in electrical appliances, which we use in our daily lives. however, they cannot agree with the basic intention of the regulation which seeks to establish a self-certification system in a manner that treats due diligence in the supply chain in order to restrict the opportunities for armed groups and security forces to trade in tin, tantalum, tungsten, their ores and gold. the commission notes that the measures are not intended to create a situation in which the union industry would be able to compete with the union industry. i consider that such a requirement would impose costs and unnecessary administrative burdens which would ultimately affect the competitiveness of smes which do not need the additional burden and therefore i voted against it.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the european parliament resolution on a commission delegated directive amending, for the purposes of adapting to technical progress, annex iii to directive 2011/65eu of the european parliament and of the council as regards the exemption for the use of cadmium in lighting and display lighting, rejecting the delegated act of the european commission on the grounds that the exemption from the ban on cadmium for certain led lamps and displays is inadmissible. cadmium is a highly toxic substance that should have been completely banned by 2014, especially as alternatives that do not involve the use of cadmium have been developed in the meantime. i consider that the exemption of the use of cadmium, which was extended until mid-2017 for light bulbs and until mid-2018 for screens, would encourage unnecessary entry into the eu market of products containing that substance. therefore, i object to such a solution.
written. ‒ cadmium (cd) is a silvery-white, soft and plastic metal that can be cut with a knife, drawn into wires and forged into sheets, and is used to coat other metals, especially iron and steel. because of the toxicity of cadmium and its compounds, and with the development of environmental awareness, cadmium is being phased out and replaced by replacement materials. directive 2011/65/eu on the restriction of the use of certain hazardous substances in electrical and electronic equipment limits, inter alia, the use of cadmium in electrical and electronic equipment, but also provides for exemptions from the restriction. i supported the objection to the commission delegated directive amending the annex to adapt it to technical progress as regards the exemption for the use of cadmium in lighting and display lighting. the commission notes that the use of cadmium in screens will have a beneficial effect due to their low energy consumption and that cadmium-free quantum dots are not yet technically available. the resolution calls for the derogation to be repealed and for the commission to submit a new delegated act which will take into account the parliament's position, given that technological developments are now producing displays which do not contain toxic cadmium.
written. ‒ the toxic properties of cadmium are the reason for its inclusion in the list of directive 2011/65/eu on the restriction of the use of certain hazardous substances in electrical and electronic equipment. the commission's delegated directive is amazing, and so are the days of explanation in the preamble to the act. i consider that the reasons for the exemption to limit the use of cadmium in lighting and display lighting are not valid or justified. the commission notes that the exemption granted to the applicant is not limited to the product concerned, but also to the product concerned. in my country we would rightly call this a conciliation procedure, which is borderline legal or even illegal if incorrect data or wrongly reasoned reasons are given to push through a legislative act. i therefore support the adoption of this resolution and would indeed ask the commission to explain the reasons for adopting this delegated directive.
written. ‒ i support the motion for a resolution on amending, for the purpose of adapting to technical progress, annex iii to directive 2011/65/eu of the european parliament and of the council as regards the exemption for cadmium in lighting and display lighting applications by asking the commission to submit a new delegated act to take account of parliament's position. in accordance with article 5 (a) (1), exemptions shall be included in annex iii, provided that they do not compromise the protection of the environment and health as provided for in regulation (ec) no 1907/2006 and if any of the following conditions are met: their elimination or replacement by design changes or by materials and components not requiring any of the materials or substances listed in annex ii is not feasible for scientific or technical reasons; the reliability of the replacement substances cannot be guaranteed; or the overall adverse effects on the environment, health and safety of the consumer of the replacement are likely to outweigh the overall adverse effects on the environment, health and safety of the consumer of the replacement. the commission also found that the exemption for lighting was not justified on the basis of the information available at that time and therefore explicitly opposed it.
written. i have supported the motion for a resolution on a commission delegated directive amending, for the purpose of adapting to technical progress, annex iii to directive 2011/65/eu of the european parliament and of the council as regards the exemption for cadmium in lighting and display lighting applications. the commission makes clear that quantum dot leds (with or without cadmium) are not yet technically available and that it is therefore clear that their beneficial environmental impact cannot be demonstrated. however, the commission has not yet taken a decision on the extension of the general exemption for quantum dots of cadmium until 30 june 2017, thus allowing lighting industries to submit a specific application for them as these devices were already in the pre-production stage. i consider that the rejection of the delegated directive does not mean that quantum dots of cadmium will be banned, but that a new impact assessment will be carried out and that competition is not distorted for the same reason, given that the current exemption is valid until it is repealed, with an additional grace period to be applied thereafter.
written. ‒ the use of hazardous substances such as cadmium should be minimised or eliminated as technology develops. in the present case, alternatives to the use of cadmium in electronics and lighting are available and are neither costly nor less efficient than cadmium. i support this motion for a resolution because greater restrictions on the use of cadmium in the electronics industry will not have a negative impact on the market and will thus work towards developing the technology and phasing out harmful substances.
written. ‒i voted in favour of this motion for a resolution on the commission delegated directive amending, for the purposes of adapting to technical progress, annex iii to directive 2011/65/eu of the european parliament and of the council as regards exemptions for the use of cadmium in lighting and display lighting. in particular, article 4 (1) of directive 2011/65/eu on the restriction of the use of certain hazardous substances in electrical and electronic equipment also restricts the use of cadmium in electrical and electronic equipment. the commission delegated directive, in exception 39 (b), requires the extension of the use of cadmium quantum dot lighting devices until 30 june 2017 in order to allow the lighting industry to make a specific request for them, given that these devices were already in the pre-production stage. the main justification of the commission for granting the new special exemption is that cadmium-free quantum dots are not yet technically available, while on the other hand, a leading tv manufacturer has launched in 2015 a new line of tvs using cadmium-free quantum dots, available in major retail centres in several member states. the above justification is incorrect, as cadmium-free quantum dots are not only available but a whole range of tvs using this technology are available on the union market from large known retailers.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution on the commission delegated directive amending annex iii to directive 2011/65/eu of the european parliament and of the council as regards exemptions for the use of cadmium in lighting and display lighting. technological advances indicate that there are much better and less harmful alternatives on the market that do not use technology that contains quantum dots of cadmium. we know that it is a hazardous substance used in electrical and electronic equipment on the eu market and that it is carcinogenic. even the smallest use of such harmful substances can have major consequences for the environment, the climate and the population. i therefore believe that it is necessary to support innovation and achieve better regulation in this area.
written. ‒ i voted against the draft motion for a resolution of the european parliament on the commission delegated regulation of 20 february 2015 amending regulation (ec) no 376/2008 as regards the obligation to present a licence for the import of ethyl alcohol of agricultural origin and repealing commission regulation (ec) no 2336/2003 laying down certain detailed rules for the application of council regulation (ec) no 670/2003 on specific measures for the market in ethyl alcohol of agricultural origin, because i do not agree with many elements of the resolution. i support the european commission's political priority focused on simplification, which does not mean that the supervision and information gathering for the ethyl alcohol market will be suspended, but will be carried out through less burdensome means. moreover, i voted against because that is also the line of the alde group.
‒ the commission adopted a regulation on specific measures for the market in ethyl alcohol of agricultural origin in 2003. in order to simplify and operate the programmes, the commission shall determine whether the existing rules impose unnecessary bureaucracy and administrative burden, and this regulation is among them. in february this year, a delegated regulation was issued amending the existing regulation to lift the eu obligation to establish and publish a balance for ethyl alcohol of agricultural origin and the quarterly obligation for member states to provide information on production, availability and stocks. the obligation to present import licences, including the lodging of a security, for the import of ethyl alcohol of agricultural origin into the eu is also abolished. i supported the resolution opposing the entry into force of the commission delegated regulation, since this would lose useful information needed for international negotiations in this market which is highly competitive from third countries.
written. ‒ i supported this resolution by which the european parliament objects to the commission's delegated regulation. i call on the commission and the member states to rethink their positions and to look to the eu for renewable energy sources, not beyond it. by importing renewable energy, we are not working towards our energy independence. the production of ethyl alcohol of agricultural origin is a source of employment and income for european farmers and contributes to europe's energy independence. in some regions of europe, rural areas are dying, people are moving away and fields are becoming overgrown with weeds. i think it is a wrong policy to allow agricultural ethyl alcohol to be easily marketed in the eu from third countries while our fields are not being worked and our people are out of work. such policies also allow additional production of ethyl alcohol in countries that are irresponsible towards our joint efforts in climate and energy policy and forest protection. i think it's wrong to cancel the import permits. these import licences are necessary to ensure traceability and guarantee the origin of the imported ethanol. up-to-date statistical data are necessary for the provision of market information and for transparency and policy-making. the market is volatile and we need data to plan and manage eu energy and agricultural policy responsibly.
written. ‒ i support the proposal for a european parliament resolution on the commission delegated regulation of 20 february 2015 amending regulation (ec) no 376/2008 as regards the obligation to present a licence for the import of ethyl alcohol of agricultural origin and repealing regulation (ec) no 2336/2003 laying down certain detailed rules for the application of council regulation (ec) no 670/2003 on specific measures for the market in ethyl alcohol of agricultural origin (c201(008612015/2580(dea). since the monitoring of data related to ethyl alcohol of agricultural origin provides both transparency and knowledge regarding the evolution of a market which remains volatile and faces strong competition, in particular due to imports from third countries, and since eurostat does not provide such precise information, meaning that there is no alternative way for operators, member states and eu institutions to be fully aware of the market situation, i support the objection to the commission delegated regulation.
written. the european commission wishes to repeal by means of a delegated act the obligation to establish and publish an eu balance for ethyl alcohol of agricultural origin and the quarterly obligation of member states to provide information on production, availability and stocks. it is also desirable to abolish the obligation to present import licences for the import into the eu of ethyl alcohol of agricultural origin, including the lodging of a security. while i support the commission's political priority in terms of simplifying unnecessary administrative procedures, i do not think that this is a matter of unnecessary bureaucratic regulations. in this context, it should be noted that the monitoring of data related to ethyl alcohol of agricultural origin ensures both transparency and knowledge of market developments. the commission therefore concluded that the union industry suffered material injury within the meaning of article 3 (5) of the basic regulation. the commission has also received information from the goc and the goc's representative in the people's republic of china. however, eurostat does not provide such precise information, which means that operators, member states and eu institutions have no alternative to be fully informed about the market situation. for the same reason, the european parliament objected to the delegated regulation and informed the commission that it could not enter into force. i therefore voted in favour of this proposal.
written. ‒ imports of ethyl alcohol of agricultural origin should comply with eu standards in the framework of transparency and therefore it is necessary to monitor data related to the product being traded. this ensures transparency and knowledge of the evolution of the european market. i support this draft resolution because it aims to improve the conditions on the european market, strengthen the market and increase transparency, which are factors that are necessary for further market growth.
written. ‒ i support the proposal for a european parliament resolution on the commission delegated regulation of 20 february 2015 amending regulation (ec) no 376/2008 as regards the obligation to present a licence for the import of ethyl alcohol of agricultural origin and repealing regulation (ec) no 2336/2003 laying down certain detailed rules for the application of council regulation (ec) no 670/2003 on specific measures for the market in ethyl alcohol of agricultural origin, as the monitoring of data related to ethyl alcohol of agricultural origin provides both transparency and knowledge of the evolution of a market which remains volatile and faces strong competition, in particular from imports from third countries. the eu produces more than 6 billion litres of ethanol of agricultural origin for the domestic market with a demand of approximately 7,9 billion litres. the eu therefore became a net importer of ethanol. this enlargement is a result of the eu's biofuels policy. i consider that import licences are necessary to ensure traceability and to ensure the origin of ethanol imports. furthermore, up-to-date statistical data are needed to provide market information, and for transparency and policy making, as eurostat does not provide such accurate information, meaning that there is no alternative way for operators, member states and eu institutions to be fully aware of market conditions.
mr president, i regret that the maternity directive, which was proposed in 2010 and has since been blocked in the council, has not been agreed. given that national legislation in most member states already provides for solutions similar to or even better than those proposed by the directive, i abstained in this vote because i believe that some new solutions and new proposals should be put forward. i would point out that member states are crucial to ensuring the rights of mothers and fathers to be unhindered by their children in their first months and years. in view of the current demographic situation in europe, we have a duty to legislate to ensure that employers provide women workers and, at the same time, married couples with quality conditions that will encourage and support the birth and upbringing of children, which requires the presence of mothers and fathers, especially in their first years of life.
written. ‒ the republic of croatia has one of the best laws on maternity leave. unfortunately, this is not the case for many eu member states. we need to work to improve the health and safety of pregnant women at work and mothers. only in this way can we tackle the demographic challenges and reduce gender inequalities.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution on parental leave because i believe that discrimination should not exist when it comes to the family and the assumption of family responsibilities. women are often greatly underestimated when it comes to the unemployment rate. because of the insecurity of their jobs, they are usually the first to be affected by poverty and social exclusion. i believe that measures should be taken to improve gender equality, such as introducing paid paternity leave for fathers in the quarter of eu member states that have not had it so far, and working to increase the birth rate in an ageing europe as many couples decide to delay starting a family because of the crisis and uncertainty in the near future.
‒ the european commission set a deadline of six months at the beginning of the year for parliament and the council to agree on amendments to the maternity leave directive. the deadline is approaching, but there is still no negotiation on a subject that is both a demographic and social challenge of our time. i supported the resolution by meps marie arene and iratxe garcía pérez which regrets that the council has not responded to parliament's position since october 2010 on amendments to the directive and calls for a debate on maternity leave, as this creates the image that women's rights and equal treatment for women are not a sufficiently important issue.
written. ‒ whereas the principle of equal treatment implies that there must be no discrimination, direct or indirect, as regards maternity, paternity and the equal sharing of family responsibilities. the commission shall be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 264 concerning the establishment of a european agency for the operational management of large-scale it systems in the area of freedom, security and justice. it is necessary to take into account the fact that more women than men live in poorer conditions, in particular older women whose pension income is on average 39% lower than that of men, as well as single mothers and the fact that women are more likely than men to work part-time or on a fixed-term contract. it should also be taken into account that the financial crisis has had an impact on the decline in birth rates in the member states of the european union, as well as the problem that a quarter of the member states do not regulate paternity leave. since the council has not yet formally responded to the first reading in parliament of 20 october 2010 on the proposal for a directive on maternity leave in full, the european parliament resolution on maternity leave.
written. ‒ i supported the motion for a resolution on maternity leave, which would increase the minimum period of maternity leave from the current 14 weeks to a minimum of 20 weeks. in addition to maternity leave, the resolution also calls for two weeks of paid paternity leave. this bill is actually an updated version of the 1992 maternity leave act and has been unchanged for four years because the council has not yet ruled on this matter. the proposal also represents a change of attitude, in a legal sense, towards the post-natal period as sickness and pregnant women as hospital and i strongly welcome the same measure.
written. ‒ the directive on maternity leave, i.e. the health and safety of pregnant workers or workers who have recently given birth or breast-fed, has been blocked since 2010 due to disagreement among a small number of member states in the council. i believe that this issue should not be the subject of union legislation, as we know that the practice of european countries, but also of non-eu countries, to date is very different as regards the exercise of the right to maternity leave. apart from the fact that this question should be regulated within the legislative framework of each member state, i consider that it is also a matter of personal choice for each woman. i base this opinion on the need to consider all the advantages and disadvantages of the application of the maternity protection provision in practice. i believe that the maternity leave allowance for women is not too stimulating and results in an earlier return to work which does not achieve the basic objective of the leave, which is quality childcare. member states are obliged to ensure respect for fundamental rights and thus to strike a balance between the demands of employers and the needs of vulnerable groups of workers, including pregnant women, women who have recently given birth or are breastfeeding, in order to address the implementation of non-discriminatory measures that contribute to economic growth and recovery.
mr president, every human being should be guaranteed basic human, civil, political and social rights and the protection of human dignity. diversity must not be a reason for discrimination, nor should we allow anyone's disability to be a reason for not participating in society. that is precisely why i supported this resolution. given that there are some 80 million people with disabilities in the european union, and that they continue to face discrimination and barriers in their daily lives, i believe we should do everything in our power to remove these barriers. it is crucial that all eu countries start to comply with the un convention on the rights of persons with disabilities and implement the european disability strategy in their social policies. member states should protect and promote the human rights of persons with disabilities and provide them with equal opportunities to participate in civic, political, social, economic and cultural life.
mr president, there are 80 million disabled people in the european union who should have the same rights as everyone else, opportunities for work and education and a good quality of life. however, they face many obstacles in their daily lives. the challenges faced by persons with disabilities, from problems in health, education and employment to social inclusion and daily family or single life, need to be considered in their entirety. for each of these areas, we need to set goals and activities that will make progress in the quality of life. social inclusion is one of the objectives of the european union strategy that cannot be achieved on its own. the work of all member states and all institutions is needed. there are 520 thousand disabled people in croatia. they're the hardest hit by the crisis, the government's austerity, unemployment. a small step has been taken recently with the introduction of mandatory employment quotas. there is still much work to be done to understand and solve the problems of people with disabilities. this parliament resolution calls for everyone to take an active role in raising awareness of the sensitivity of the issue of people with disabilities and i was happy to support it today.
written. ‒ it is estimated that over 80 million people in the european union live with some form of disability. they shall enjoy equal rights and be entitled to inalienable dignity, equal treatment, an independent life and full participation in society. we must take into account the fact that the provisions of the un convention are minimum standards that allow the european institutions to continue to act in the protection of persons with disabilities and the fight against discrimination. the existing legislation on the rights of persons with disabilities should be better applied in order to increase accessibility for all persons with disabilities across the union.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the draft resolution on the list of issues adopted by the un committee on the rights of persons with disabilities in relation to the initial report of the european union as it highlights the need for better political cooperation within the union in order to improve the living conditions of persons with disabilities in dignity. there are some 80 million disabled people in the eu and some member states have not yet ratified the un convention on the rights of persons with disabilities. these people very often face discrimination in employment, in the workplace, in education and in many other areas of life important to their self-determination and independent living. the development and implementation of specific measures in the eu would improve the rights and increase the social inclusion of such persons in society.
written. ‒ access to work, together with non-discrimination in the workplace, is a fundamental element for self-determination and independent living. despite existing programmes, initiatives and strategies at eu level, the employment rate for people aged 20-64 is above 70%, while the employment rate for people with disabilities is below 50%. the employment rate for women without disabilities is 65% compared to 44% for women with disabilities. paid employment is essential to enable persons with disabilities to live independently and, as member states should therefore strive to increase the availability of employment for persons with disabilities so that they can contribute to the society in which they live, they should, as a prerequisite, provide inclusive education for all children with disabilities, including those with learning disabilities, which can help them to develop their careers or secure a good job that will enable them to live independently later in life. since parliament is the only directly elected body of the european union representing european citizens and therefore fully respecting the paris principles, it is of the utmost importance that it is involved in the process of ensuring all rights and full inclusion and equality of persons with disabilities.
‒ the eu strongly promotes the active participation and inclusion of people with disabilities in society. the eu is a signatory to the uncrpd and this issue is of paramount importance to the approximately 80 million people living in europe with disabilities. the commission shall be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 264 concerning the establishment of a european data protection supervisor. the list of issues adopted by the un committee on the rights of persons with disabilities in relation to the eu initial report indicates that work should be done to improve the conditions for persons with disabilities to travel independently by all means of transport. in this respect, i should like to point out that in december 2014 i asked the commission a question on the problems of disabled persons when introducing a guide dog on board an aircraft. what i would like to highlight, and it is mentioned in the list, is the concern about the unemployment of people with disabilities, who make up as much as 1/6 of the average working population in the eu, and therefore it is particularly worrying that their employment at eu level is below 50%. in croatia, where there are around half a million disabled people, but also in other member states, particular attention should be paid to the use of european social fund funds with a view to their integration into the labour market. finally, i would like to point out that i am a member of the ep's intergroup on disabled people, along with a number of colleagues.
written. ‒ i strongly support the un convention on the rights of persons with disabilities. persons with disabilities must have equal rights, that is, the right to dignity, equal treatment, independent living and full participation in society. the union has an estimated 80 million persons with disabilities and data from the eu agency for fundamental rights consistently indicate that they face discrimination and obstacles to the exercise of their rights. they are one of the most vulnerable groups in our society and their inclusion in the labour market is one of the greatest challenges for social and labour market policy. i therefore believe that full inclusion and equal participation of persons with disabilities can only be achieved through a human rights-based approach to disability at all levels of public policy.
‒ there are about 80 million people with disabilities in the european union. as one of the most vulnerable groups in our society, they face many challenges and their inclusion in the market is one of the greatest challenges for social and labour market policy. it is important to take action to increase the employment of persons with disabilities and to enable them to live in dignity and independence without the discrimination and obstacles to employment that they currently face. i support this draft proposal because it aims to improve the conditions for disabled people and points to the need for a heterogeneous approach to the problem. i also express the need to monitor the situation of people with disabilities in everyday life, not just in the field of employment.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the commission's statement on the un convention on the rights of persons with disabilities. more than 80 million people with disabilities face significant barriers to access to education, employment and goods and services in the eu, resulting in greater social exclusion and poverty. the value of existing and potential contributions of persons with disabilities to the overall well-being and diversity of their communities should be recognised, and the result of promoting the full enjoyment of human rights and fundamental freedoms by persons with disabilities and the full participation of persons with disabilities will be their greater sense of belonging and significant advancement in the human, social and economic development of society and the eradication of poverty. the importance of personal autonomy and independence of persons with disabilities, including freedom of choice, should be emphasised and the possibility should be ensured for them to be actively involved in decision-making processes on policies and programmes, including those directly related to their well-being. access to the physical, social, economic and cultural environment as well as to education, information and communication is important, enabling persons with disabilities to fully enjoy all human rights and fundamental freedoms i'm your aunt.
mr president, the problems facing italian olive growers are causing fear for their neighbours and for croatian olive growers. what they're most concerned about is the lack of relevant and reliable information. i supported this resolution because it warns of the almost catastrophic situation facing olive growers. i am grateful that my proposals have been accepted concerning the facilitation of access to information and the exchange of experience and the development of comprehensive guidelines for the application of preventive, control and surveillance measures with a clearly indicated scope and duration of those measures. the measures to compensate olive growers must not be neglected. the commission has also found that the measures provided for in this decision are in accordance with the opinion of the standing committee on plants, animals, food and feed, the commission has also received a request from the croatian authorities to provide information on the implementation of the measures in the olive sector.
written. ‒ the past year, 2014, will be remembered as one of the worst for olive growing, or olive harvesting. in addition to the lack of rainfall, eu member states where olive growing is a significant part of agricultural production have faced an invasion of pests that damage the fruit and render it unusable. for example, croatia recorded its worst harvest in 40 years. furthermore, the european food safety authority (efsa) issued a scientific opinion in january warning of the spread of xylella fastidiosa, which attacks not only olives but also crops such as citrus and vines. i hope that the commission, in accordance with its powers, will take decisive action to stop its spread. in addition to the obvious economic damage and the endangered existence of european olive growers, the shortage of oil on the market and the resulting price increase may have an impact on the public health of european citizens. olive oil is a healthier alternative to common types of edible oil and as such has a more beneficial effect on the cardiovascular system of the human body.
written. ‒ i voted for the european parliament resolution on the epidemic of xylelle fastidiosis which attacks olive trees, as i was well aware of the problem and had been actively involved and supported other previous initiatives related to this topic such as the written question and the oral question in the european parliament and i participated in the preparation of the resolution as coordinator of the alde group of meps. the issue of this bacterium is particularly important and worrying to me, given the great development that olive growing has achieved in istria. as i have been partly involved in this process, and personally through my previous political activities, i am particularly interested in the fight against the spread of xylella fastidiosa. the potential spread to other mediterranean areas on the scale of the apulia region would have catastrophic consequences. i am in favour of rapid measures aimed at the eradication of xylella fastidiosa, but also taking into account the gradualness of the measures where possible so that the removal measures do not achieve irreversible effects on the crops. the eu must also provide adequate assistance to olive growers in the affected areas.
- xylella fastidiosa is a pathogenic bacterium that is extremely dangerous to olives. we should also take note of the fact that the bacteria attack the vine and citrus fruit. the bacterium was imported from third countries, namely central and south america, and the consequences of its action are most felt by olive growers in southern italy. in the republic of croatia, all three species are of great importance for the agricultural sector. in 2013, olive groves and vineyards covered more than 45,000 hectares and produced 50,000 hectolitres of olive oil and more than 1,200,000 hectolitres of wine annually. i support the resolution calling on the commission to step up its commitment and to react more quickly to stop the further spread of the bacterium, because otherwise we will feel the consequences in the economy, the environment and society. according to an estimate by the european food safety authority, as many as eleven million trees are at direct risk in southern italy, while croatia as a whole has six million trees. given that no adequate solution has been found since italy reported the infection in 2013, this situation should be taken as an example that the problem should not be solved when it arises but prevented, and we need a strong prevention system. prevention should include raising awareness of the consequences, which are catastrophic today because the infected olive tree will no longer be usable.
‒ xylelle fastidiosa is a highly dangerous bacterium that has already caused considerable losses in the olive sector in southern italy where a total of 11 million infected trees will be cut down. the presence of xylella fastidiosa causes serious economic damage not only to olive growers but also to the entire production chain, tourism and marketing activities, since olive growing is much more than an agricultural activity. it's the foundation of millenary cultures in the mediterranean. since the disease is transmitted by insects, olive trees and other mediterranean lands are at risk. in parallel with the spread of the xylelle fastidiosis bacterium in southern italy, last year's olive harvest in croatia was as much as 90% below average due to the appearance of olive fly disease. expectations for this year's crop are just as bad. in a debate on this topic at the april plenary, the commission representative stated that the commission would find a way to provide financial support to olive growers, through rural development programmes or horizon 2020. following the commission's statement and the adoption of this resolution by the european parliament, i hope that the commission will take concrete action. in order to prevent the spread of xylelle fastidiosa, the commission allocated additional funds to the raspberry sector across europe, which was severely affected last year by the outbreak of that bacterium, but also by other diseases such as olive fly and peacock's eye.
written. ‒ i support the motion for a resolution on the epidemic of xylella fastidiosa, which attacks olives, because the epidemic has already had consequences of unprecedented proportions in southern europe, especially in southern italy, with dramatic economic, social and environmental consequences. the fact that i find it worrying is that fastidiosa has a wide range of hosts, including many species in the eu such as olives, lemons, vines, almonds, peaches, plums and a host of others. due to the great difficulty of stopping the spread of the epidemic, the eu must take all necessary measures to prevent its spread to other member states as soon as possible. i welcome the eu measures requiring member states to notify if an outbreak occurs and that stopping the spread of infection must be by eradicating plants immediately on the spot and within a radius of 100m, regardless of the health status of the plant. i believe that the implementation of strict measures targeting imports, especially from disease-affected and third world countries, must be a priority, as preventing the movement of infected plants and insects can only help to prevent the spread of pests to other eu countries and territories. due to its geographical location and its connection with italy, there is a risk that croatia would be irreparably damaged by this epidemic, especially from data showing that there are between 2.5 - 3.5 million trees in croatia.
written. ‒ i consider that the epidemic of xylella fastidiosa bacteria attacking olive trees is a major danger and that a rapid response by the relevant bodies is needed to combat it. the bacterium appeared in the region of apulia in southern italy and, as a potential threat to crops in other regions, has taken on serious proportions on an unprecedented scale with dramatic economic, environmental and social consequences. the eradication method proposed by the commission to prevent the spread of infection should be proportionate to the level of catastrophe with a view to promoting good agronomic management and plant health, including in the selection of the most appropriate vector control method. a balanced and biologically diverse agronomic ecosystem that is more resistant to invasive pests is one way of preventing susceptibility to and spread of plant diseases. i also express my extreme concern in the context of the republic of croatia, which is in the immediate vicinity of the infected area.
‒ xylella fastidiosa is a dangerous bacterium that can cause major losses in agriculture. spurred by cases in brazil and california, it is imperative to react quickly to prevent further spread of the infection that could affect many crops such as olive trees, almonds, peaches, and ornamental plants. it is also a potential threat to other crops such as vines and citrus fruits. i support this motion for a resolution because, in addition to a rapid response to prevent further infection with xylella fastidiosa, activities aimed at preventing new infections with other types of bacteria and diseases are also needed, such as research and increased control of imports of infected goods into the european union.
written. - i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution on the epidemic of xylella fastidiosa which attacks olive trees. xylella is a very dangerous immediate threat to the production of certain crops in southern europe, including olive trees, almonds, peaches and ornamental plants, and a potential threat to other crops, such as vineyards and citrus trees, and can lead to unprecedented and devastating losses, with dramatic economic, environmental and social consequences. the bacterium is already causing severe damage to olive groves in the apulia region of southern italy, potentially threatening other crops and regions. xylella has already devastated, destroyed and ruined large areas of production in third countries, such as vineyards in california and citrus plantations in brazil. i welcome the decision taken by the european commission in april 2015 to stop the import of infected coffee plants from costa rica and honduras. increased research efforts should be promoted without delay, including the designation of resources available to research institutes, to improve our scientific knowledge of xylella and to positively identify the pathogen causing the death of olives. the european commission and the member states should compensate producers for the eradication measures and the loss of income which includes the loss not only in terms of agricultural production but also in terms of cultural heritage, history and tourism-related activities.
written. ‒ i supported the motion for a resolution because i believe that the emergence of xylella fastidiosa, which attacks olive trees in italy, poses a serious threat to european olive growers. croatia, as a neighbouring country and a country with a long and rich tradition of olive growing and processing, is exposed to a high risk of the occurrence of this disease. as there is no cure for this bacterium, all possible prevention measures and control measures for imported products should be taken. this could stop its spread and domestication in other areas, which could result in severe consequences such as reduced yields and large losses, and which would ultimately require even more expensive control measures. i therefore support the adoption of provisions that will help to contain and eventually eradicate this disease. in order to combat this problem effectively, olive growers need to be provided with adequate compensation for the loss of trees as well as additional resources and information to be able to deal with the occurrence of this disease in a lawful manner.
madam president, it has been ten years since turkey opened negotiations with my, or our, homeland croatia. we have been a full member for two years now, and when it comes to turkey, things are not so good. we all recognise that turkey is important to us for strategic reasons and that fact is undeniable, and it is important to advance the dialogue and the talks between the european union and turkey. but at the same time, we must acknowledge and be aware that the human rights situation in turkey is not at an enviable level. we also have to be aware that the executive branch is interfering with the judicial branch. we also know that the state of the media and freedom of speech is not at an enviable level. we also know that gender equality is not respected in turkey. i also know that the copenhagen criteria are not being met either. all these facts do not speak in favour of the advocates of turkey's earlier approach. the cyprus issue is not resolved. i call on the representatives of the united nations to continue this process of possible reconciliation, bringing the two sides closer together. anyway, i'm not in favor of opening new chapters because of pre-election rhetoric or pre-election campaigning. so it is necessary to look at it calmly, recognising turkey's importance to the european union, but at the same time taking care to accept european values.
mr president, in this parliament we often speak, every time, at every sitting, about the problems of migration, refugees, the energy problems of the european union. turkey is our ally in this. turkey is our ally when we talk about two million refugees and when we talk about what it means to have a different energy supply. and because he's an ally, we have the right to talk about the problems that exist for turkey to progress towards the european union and to join the european union. because these problems exist, because we are allies, we have to make it clear that until there is proper democratic change and reform in turkey, it cannot become part of the european union. but that's why i think that the process of negotiation and openness towards the partners in turkey, all things considered, is a very important moment in order to create regional peace in that part of europe, or rather the world.
member of the commission.– madam president, i would like to thank all members of this house who expressed their support for the commission’s comprehensive agenda on turkey. this includes work in crucial areas such as energy, migration, the economy and modernisation of the customs union. this recognises the importance of the shared challenges in eu-turkey relations. the commission is committed to developing these relations further. i also share many of your concerns, of course. the rule of law and fundamental freedoms – such as freedom of assembly, freedom of expression, freedom of the media – and the independence of the judiciary are all core principles of democratic societies. it is up to turkey to ensure that both the legal framework and its implementation in these areas are in line with european standards. the commission is prepared to work with the new turkish parliament and government on these issues. regarding the issue of cyprus, i would like to echo the comments made here today that there is now a window of opportunity to find a lasting solution to this very crucial issue. the commission would like to encourage all involved to make decisive progress in the settlement talks with the support of the un. such progress could also add new momentum to turkey’s accession process. to conclude, the commission underlines that we must be prepared to step up our efforts in further engaging with turkey after the upcoming elections. the enlargement process provides the most suitable framework for cooperation and performance. thank you very much for your attention and for this very rich discussion.
president-in-office of the council.– madam president, the debate today clearly shows that we need to continue to encourage political and economic reforms in turkey. this is the best way forward and we should continue down this road. answering the question by mr lambsdorff on whether the eu is the anchor of reforms in turkey, the council’s answer is clear: both sides, including turkey, have much to gain from the process of political and economic reforms. during the debate, many of you also mentioned energy issues. let me assure you that the council fully supports the strengthening of eu-turkey energy cooperation with the aim of facilitating and integrating energy markets. here, i would like to refer also to the proposal by the commission on energy union, which points to turkey as an important strategic energy partner. the eu is committed to developing energy and climate diplomacy where it can use all its foreign policy instruments. in this debate we also heard several members calling for the opening of further negotiation chapters, for example chapters 23 and 24. let me remind you that negotiating chapters may only be opened in compliance with the rules of the intergovernmental conference, according to the established procedures and in line with the negotiation framework. unanimity in council is required for this process. as a presidency, we are committed to continuing the process. together with the member states and the commission we are doing what we can to move things forward. i shall not take more time and will conclude by recalling that, ultimately, it is turkey’s own ability and willingness to move forward which will determine the pace of the negotiations. turkey’s own progress in addressing benchmarks, as well as the requirements of the negotiating framework and accession partnership, continue to be the primary determining factors. advancing the negotiations will not only require further general reform efforts, but also a great deal of political courage from turkey. we join the commission in expressing hope that the eu agenda will be re-energised in turkey after the elections. i thank you very much for this debate and thank you once again for your attention.
member of the commission.– madam president, on behalf of the vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy, federica mogherini, i welcome the opportunity to discuss the situation in ethiopia just four days before elections take place there. it is indeed important that we can exchange views on this very important country. to start with, the commission wishes to recognise ethiopia’s active role in regional and international efforts to build a more secure and peaceful horn of africa region. ethiopia is notably leading intergovernmental authority on development (igad) mediation efforts in south sudan. it has contributed a significant number of troops to the african union mission to somalia, in particular, fighting al-shabaab with considerable success. this illustrates ethiopia’s importance as a partner for the european union in terms of regional peace and stability. we have common interests and similar positions on a number of global issues – on migration and displacement, for instance. ethiopia is a key country of origin and transit, as well as a destination. it is host to more than 680 000 refugees, with all the difficulties this entails. it is actively involved in the khartoum process. the recent killing of ethiopian christian migrants by isis in libya has brought the issue of migration, as well as terrorism, to the top of the agenda in ethiopia, and the government has expressed an interest in expanding cooperation on these matters with the european union. on climate change, ethiopia’s policy in global discussion is in line with the european union position. the european union intends to sign the lima declaration on cooperation with ethiopia, as several eu member states have already done. in terms of economic development and poverty reduction, ethiopia is considered in many ways a success story for africa. the assistance that the eu and its member states have been providing is bearing fruit in terms of progress towards the millennium development goals for social and economic growth. the imf estimate for economic growth in the current year, 2015, is 7.5-8.5%, which is rather impressive for the region. moreover, according to a recent report by the world bank, poverty in ethiopia fell by one third between 2000 and 2011. these are remarkable achievements and i am glad that our support contributed to them. but we all know there is another side to the coin: as in many post-conflict situations, democratic transition in ethiopia is taking time and does not always go smoothly. the commission is well aware that the political environment is not conducive to transparent, credible and inclusive elections – and this is a concern which we have raised with the government during our article 8 political dialogues and bilateral meetings, including at the highest level. we have repeatedly highlighted the need for genuine political dialogue with the opposition, and for full respect for freedom of speech, freedom of association and freedom of the press, as provided for by the ethiopian constitution. the government’s line is that their primary concern is stability and security for their people, and that they cannot permit destabilisation of the country which would jeopardise social and economic progress. thus, we cannot say that we agree on everything, but we have an ongoing open dialogue on these issues, sometimes with constructive results. we are, for example, discussing the possibility of cooperating on improving the quality of the ethiopian media, both public and private, as an outcome of a recent article 8 dialogue on the media. turning to the elections, you are all aware that progress in following up implementation of the recommendations of previous election observation missions has been lacking. the reports of 2005 and 2010 have unfortunately been rejected. we have not received an invitation for the elections that will take place next sunday, and therefore the european union will not send an election observation mission. similarly, we have decided against financially supporting the undp electoral programme. the situation of journalists, bloggers, members of the opposition and other individuals is a major cause for concern. they have been imprisoned for having expressed their opinions publicly. the space for the media and political parties has been gradually reduced since just before the start of the electoral period in 2014. the eu delegation, together with member states present in addis ababa, is closely following the situation and monitors all the relevant trials. we also discuss these issues, including the use of the anti-terrorism proclamation to stifle dissent, with the ethiopian authorities, and the authorities are fully aware of our concerns and positions. our global partnership with ethiopia therefore does not mean that the european union is indifferent to the difficulties that the ethiopian population continues to face, as discussed in the human rights subcommittee meetings in january this year and in september 2014, when the eu issued a statement on the political and human rights situation in ethiopia. we will certainly continue to follow the situation closely and to react publicly when necessary. i will be happy to hear your views on eu engagement with ethiopia.
mr president, commissioner, with 94 million inhabitants, ethiopia is the second most populous country in africa and one of the key states for the stability and development of the continent, which is certainly of strategic importance for our european security for all the reasons you, commissioner, have mentioned. that is why we are concerned about the erosion of democratic freedoms, as evidenced by the imprisonment of opposition politicians and journalists critical of the ruling people's revolutionary democratic front. as in other african countries, ethiopia is seeing this link between lack of freedom, good governance and poverty. it is therefore important that the elections that will be held this weekend are fair, free, that the government immediately and unconditionally release political prisoners and journalists. the affirmation of the rule of law and the launch of an inclusive reconciliation process are indeed key preconditions for sustainable development in ethiopia. our development cooperation must therefore be geared towards these objectives, to support ethiopia as an important partner in the region. why would you do that? because it's important to us that ethiopia continues to engage in constructive regional cooperation. although a poor country, it is now hosting more than 680,000 refugees, and it is equally important for us that ethiopia remains a reliable partner in the fight against radical and terrorist organisations like al shabaab. but precisely because we want ethiopia to be a strong partner, we have to stand up for human rights in ethiopia, promote good governance and the rule of law. we expect the government to initiate a serious credible process of dialogue with the opposition in order to achieve national reconciliation and deepen the process of democratization.
mr. president, the situation in ethiopia is alarming and calls for alarm in several respects. on sunday, parliamentary elections will be held in ethiopia, and the pluralism of the party system is present only declaratively, and opposition parties are being repressed. freedom of the press as one of the fundamental principles of democracy is not only limited, but journalists are put in a situation where they have to choose between self-censorship or arrest, and many are forced to flee their own country. though mostly christian, ethiopia is now the 22nd country in the world to persecute christians. christians are persecuted by extremist groups that advocate the creation of an islamic state, which cannot have its foothold in islam or justify violence by invoking god. we must fight them with greater strength, together. it is also deeply disturbed by the violent programme of relocation of the population from rural areas under the guise of improving their living conditions. agriculture is important to the local population, it provides them with a livelihood, and therefore the violent taking of agricultural land from the hands of the local population must be confronted and stopped urgently.
mr president, in this house i have the feeling that we sometimes debate exclusively. this debate is a bit like the one we had when we were talking about turkey. let's say those things that are positive and good for ethiopia, those things that are useful for the european union, for europe. if it were in europe, ethiopia would be the largest country by population. ethiopia today is a factor of stability in a very troubled part of the world and in a way it is the protection of our interests in that world. and that's why i'm in favor of continuing to help ethiopia, but i'm also in favor of what my colleagues are saying and pointing out the undemocratic actions of the current government. but i ask everyone here to consider and try to balance values when we talk about ethiopia, turkey, or any other country that we have a special interest in.
the question he raised by raising his blue card. mr. dzhambazki, i listened to you carefully and i want to know if you really honestly think that fyrom or the republic of macedonia - as we say in croatia - should become a member of the european union, nato for the sake of stability in the balkans and that it would be good for your country, your government and bulgaria, neighbors and greece to help macedonia on this path, that is, fyrom, so that no one here is offended? you know why i say republic of macedonia, because i'm from croatia.
mr. president, ladies and gentlemen, it is important to note that after the tragic events in kumanovo, there was no ethnic conflict. equally important, the protests in a very tense political atmosphere went without a fight, which speaks of the maturity of macedonian society and the chances of getting out of the crisis. of course, the authorities are most responsible for what happened in macedonia, for the abuse of power, but it is certain that the loss of the european perspective that this country has had for a full decade has also contributed to this. i therefore call on the european institutions to open up a european perspective to macedonia, and i congratulate and thank the colleagues who are helping to do so, mr weigl, mr kukana and mr howit.
the question he raised by raising his blue card. mr. buonanno, thank you for accepting my blue card. i just can't sit here anymore and not react. i came in at 9:00 and i'm still sitting here. your president salvini came in this morning and he was talking about migration, he came in and the first thing he said was, "this room is empty, and it's such an important topic. why is there no one here? when he finished his speech, he left and never came back. do you consider that to be a hypocritical speech, as this speech of yours is hypocritical?
mr commissioner, macedonia is a geographically small country, but it is burdened with serious internal rifts in a turbulent geopolitical environment. while most in the union view macedonia through the prism of a name dispute with greece, the general situation is worsening from year to year. allegations of illegal wiretapping of thousands of citizens, threats to journalists, accusations of manipulating terrorism, but also terrorist incidents, widespread corruption, often unrecognizable distinction between party and state activities - these are just some of the problems. the result is a deeply divided society with no will for elementary political dialogue. this is the real picture of a country that started the european integration path before croatia. maintaining the status quo will only increase the problems facing the country, but the real danger is that they become chronic or spill over into its borders. this requires a commitment on all sides and an urgent political solution. the european union can contribute to such a solution if, for example, the macedonian neighbouring member states finally give skopje a genuine opportunity to continue along the path that has been blocked for too long.
mr. vice president czarnecki, commissioner stilianides, thank you for your presentation. first of all, i would like to express my support for macedonia on its european path and as a relatively neighbouring country, since i come from croatia, but also a country which has been part of the european path parallel to macedonia and i regret that those who initialed the stabilisation and association agreement at the zagreb summit back in 2000 are not able to open accession negotiations 15 years later. i think it's bad and it's not good and that frustration is part of what we've seen in the last few weeks. i believe that the macedonian opposition, that is the socialist party, should not boycott the parliament but participate in it, that the ruling coalition should also accept political responsibility for what is not good in this situation, and that we should find a package of solutions that would stabilize the country, so that such terrorist attacks as in kumanovo are not repeated, and it is good that the albanian ethnic parties did not react to the provocations at all. in this sense, the european union has a great political responsibility for a high-quality european future for macedonia.
mr. president, first of all, i express my deepest condolences to the families of the dead macedonian policemen who were brutally killed in the terrorist attack in kumanovo. i hope that the perpetrators of this act of vandalism will be found, the perpetrators punished and that all security measures will be taken so that the same situation will not happen again. if macedonia had been accepted into nato instead of being left in the waiting room, i believe this unpleasant event would not have happened. i regret that the whole situation has not encouraged the macedonian opposition to return to the parliament which is the right place to seek the best solutions for the welfare of the macedonian people and the european path of macedonia. but the blame for the dramatic situation in macedonia should be sought first and foremost within the eu, more specifically the council, which, despite all the resolutions of the european parliament, still poses obstacles to macedonia opening negotiations. if macedonia had entered into negotiations with the eu, there would certainly not have been attempts to come to power without elections and to attack its sovereignty. i repeat once again: macedonia has met all the necessary conditions and deserves to be opened to negotiations. the bilateral name issue should be resolved through negotiations, following the model of croatia and slovenia, because it has proven successful. stability in macedonia is important for the stability of the whole region but also for the eu. macedonia can no longer be in the waiting room for eu and nato membership for the sake of the macedonian people and the eu's credibility.
mr. president, the current situation in macedonia is very alarming. the government is unstable, inter-ethnic tensions have not been high for a long time, there is no rule of law and therefore no prerequisite for normal economic development, and the outpouring of public discontent has spilled into the streets. when you add to that the stalemate in the euro-atlantic integration process, it becomes quite clear that the macedonians have little reason for optimism. turning the current hopelessness into a permanent state could drag the country into ruin and we must prevent this, because it seems that even the macedonian security services are slowing down which makes this incendiary situation an additional danger to the security of the whole of southeast europe. and it's up to all of us whether we want to put out this flame or wait for it to explode into a big fire.
madam president, the importance of the upcoming eastern partnership summit in riga cannot be underestimated due to the changed geopolitical circumstances following russia's annexation of crimea and aggression in eastern ukraine. the draft declaration sent to the eastern partnership countries is not encouraging. the commission notes that the union's macro-financial assistance to ukraine has been provided in the form of loans and guarantees, and that the union's macro-financial assistance has been provided in the form of grants and guarantees. unless we want to give false hope, which i agree with, is the blurred prospect and the doubt about visa liberalization all we have left? our partners must not be left alone under pressure, and we must be left to observe. this summit can and should be a unique opportunity for the union to demonstrate its unquestionable commitment to the eastern partnership. it should give a thoughtful answer to the question of to what extent russia and the eu can be partners in the same space today and to what extent they remain rivals. they should send an unambiguous message that the eu will continue to actively and unitedly support its eastern partners in their reforms and foreign policy commitments.
madam vice-president lunacek, tonight's debate on the 4th eastern partnership summit to be held in riga this week is politically extremely important for the credibility of the eu's foreign policy. the messages we have given to the six countries, especially the five that were more involved, i don't mean belarus, which has had a specific status for some time, are now in a substantially different position than they were during the vilnius summit. what is important in riga is that we note the progress on the european path of certain countries, especially those three countries whose authorities are determined to continue on the european path: these are ukraine, moldova and georgia, and it is up to us to follow up their aspirations and wishes with the instruments and policies at our disposal. in this regard, strong implementation of the association agreement, financial assistance, institution building, reform assistance, in particular strengthening the rule of law and the fight against corruption must be priorities of both our policies and our financial instruments. the signals to the peoples of those countries, in particular in terms of visa facilitation and liberalisation, are important for the perception of the union by the public of those member states. after our messages of the past years, it is important that there be no disappointment and that all the others, the neighbours of these countries, know that these countries have the right to decide independently and sovereignly about their future, and we must extend a hand to them in this european future.
madam president, the fact is that we are in a completely new geopolitical situation since the last summit in 2013, the fact is that borders are changing by force, that some of our member states are under pressure, that these six countries we are talking about are in completely different situations and the situation can be compared to maybe three countries. in any case, the situation is different from 2013. i think the union must continue on its way, we must listen to our partners, we must (as the council representative said) give them a very serious partnership, because that is the only way we will resist russia. the fact is that russia has failed to turn us off the path we have set out and we must insist on it. we don't necessarily have to consider them enemies, but in this case, they're our rivals. the fact is that the citizens of these countries expect change. and that is why we must persevere on this path, we must offer them a european perspective. the association agreement has been signed - that's the difference. in any case, our primary objective is peace and therefore we must insist on this basic principle. so, not just solidarity but firm support.
madam president, i wish the summit in riga success because i am convinced that the citizens of all six of these countries want a european perspective or at least see the european union as something very positive. i remember how it was in the early decades when we and many of our colleagues here were entering the european union. that is why i wish this summit in riga success, because i believe that our priorities must be the preservation of peace and economic cooperation with the countries concerned by the eastern partnership. but our condition must be european values, and in particular human rights, freedom of the press and all that we can summarily say makes up our society and makes up this european union. so i want to be clear, we're not creating enemies, this is not a move against russia, but we're creating partnership in the desire that everyone, in the end, be our partners.
madam president, madam minister, the june summit will give us a new opportunity to strengthen ties with latin america, which must be of strategic importance for europe. one of the crucial issues is sustainable development in this region, where most countries are middle-income countries, but with the right policies and with the support of the union in implementing those policies, they could finally cross that threshold that still separates them from the developed world. several times in the past, latin america seemed to be on track, approaching that threshold, but then the institutions crumbled and it was back to square one. political and institutional development is therefore the subject of ongoing research in several latin american countries. caudillism or the temptation to reform constitutions to allow presidential re-elections are symptoms of the institutional fragility that impedes development. the most acute situation at the moment is certainly that of venezuela, but it is not the only one. it is therefore important that europe's attention in cooperation programmes should be focused on strengthening democratic institutions in latin america.
madam president, i wish the 8th eu-celac summit to be held in brussels a success because there are many reasons why we want such a success. there are those human reasons, there are those cultural, economic, political reasons. indeed, human connection and all that connects us to latin america is so important for europe, and that is why i wish this summit success. what i want to highlight in particular are certainly the good developments in cuba, in venezuela, and we believe that something similar will soon be happening in colombia. we still want venezuela to achieve much better values than it has today. but what i want to draw attention to is something else: it is the problem of the arrival of cocaine from these countries that will be present at celac, at this summit, and that is why i ask that this be seriously discussed as well as one detail xylelli fastidiosi that we have talked about here, which has come from costa rica to europe.
madam president, distinguished colleagues, i'm pleased that you've raised the question of the implementation of the youth employment initiative. the commission should also be able to provide information on the impact of the measures taken on the environment and the environment protection. croatia is suffering its sixth year of recession, the youth unemployment rate is close to 40%, which according to eurostat is the second highest youth unemployment rate in europe, young people are leaving to look for work in other member states, and the government has not used a single euro from this initiative until february 2015. you also asked: how does the council intend to promote rapid and effective implementation in the short term? i am of the opinion that the council can hardly encourage the work of incompetent governments. this change can only be made by the voters in the member states.
madam president, compliance with the decision of the international court of justice is a matter of lawful conduct in international relations. disregard for the decisions of international bodies is the exact opposite. although the international court of justice has banned commercial whaling, it has left open the possibility of scientific whaling. it's a crack that has allowed japan, but also norway and iceland, to continue 'controlled whaling under the guise of science'. that crack has grown over the years into a legal hole through which, not just one whale can pass, but more than 10,000 can pass because that's how many have been taken. the question is whether japan, like norway and iceland, will find a way to not, like its international partners, which have allowed it to continue its so-called 'controlled catch', abuse the good faith of the rest of the international community. our problem, the problem of the european union, is how we will react to the violation of the decision of the international court. ignoring the problem will not help the whales, japan or international law.
madam president, mr commissioner, we must be very objective. the data is favorable, positive, however, as you yourself said, it's based on low oil prices and draghi's moves, so to speak. this cannot be part of our medium-term growth strategy, because the only thing that can be is the real economy. i would therefore like to highlight two sectors which have great potential for europe but are not fully exploited. one of them is certainly tourism, which we talk too little about at european level, we talk too little about the potential of tourism, which unfortunately is becoming less competitive in the world, and we have destroyed, for example, shipbuilding. i would therefore like to stress in particular that i expect, firstly, an effective juncker fund that will really stimulate investment, and secondly, i expect the rapid realisation of the energy and digital union. these are ways that we can look at growth in the medium term.
madam president, positive change does not happen by itself. they're the result of a combination of measures. public or private investment alone cannot result in long-term and sustainable growth, nor will reforms or fiscal consolidation alone lead to growth. it takes a clever combination of everything. europe as a whole is moving in a positive direction. this is also shown by these latest spring 2015 forecasts. however, some member states are more successful and some are less successful, and surprise with their negative and positive rates. successful examples show that decisiveness in economic policy, reorganisation, the use of untapped resources, innovation, investment in science, new technologies and manufacturing solutions are needed. determined, brave, smart and open governments restore the trust of the public, entrepreneurs, investors, change trends. we must all learn from these examples and build a europe that grows at rates of 3% and above.
madam president, mr commissioner, in this house we talk about energy at virtually every sitting. whether we speak in terms of threats or in terms of the need for the competitiveness of the european economy, in any case energy is what is in some ways one of the key concerns of both this commission and us as representatives. therefore, the single european energy market is the sine qua non of our competitiveness and it is definitely acer that must be the model, the mechanism, that will enable the creation of a single energy market and that will ultimately enable the competitiveness of the european economy and of course identify the threats we have today in the energy market. i therefore ask the commission about this oral question: how and how quickly will you ensure that acer really meets all the expectations we have of it?
the question he raised by raising his blue card. dear mr frunzulică, i have listened to you very carefully and i would like to ask you if you really think that after all zimbabwe, instead of zimbabwe being stevie wonder and the gentleman we are looking for, the gentleman who has disappeared, do you really think that we need a complete revision of the european union's policy towards zimbabwe, a country that has disappointed us so much after all the expectations we had?
mr president, we want zimbabwe by itai dzamara, we want zimbabwe by stevie wonder, we want zimbabwe by the standards of the european union, by the values of the european union because zimbabwe is our partner. and we really need to take advantage of the enormous aid that we're giving to zimbabwe, over 230 million euros that zimbabwe is getting, and zimbabwe's answer is the dictatorial regime of mugabe, a person who has so disappointed this world, because when freedom started in zimbabwe we believed in another africa, we believed in one democratic africa and zimbabwe was a good example and, at one point, almost a model of that africa. today, what do we have? we are deeply disappointed, and that is why i am calling for the immediate release of the prisoner, mr. dzamare.
mr. president, in the last three years, more than 140,000 rohingya have left myanmar and bangladesh by boat, and in the first three months of this year, more than 25,000. last weekend, 2,000 refugees landed on the shores of indonesia and malaysia, and about 8,000 of them were trapped in the middle of the sea. i welcome the reversal of the decision of the governments of indonesia and malaysia to accept refugees and give them temporary protection. i call for urgent action to address the root causes of these problems, which means that myanmar must change its policies that have led to human rights violations and sectarian violence, and thailand must stop human trafficking, investigate and prevent new mass graves.
mr president, mr commissioner, europe must continue its clear policy in asia, particularly in this case where we are talking about the suffering of hundreds of thousands of people, where we are talking about mass graves, where we are talking about the greatest possible crimes and where we are talking about the fact that an entire people simply wants to be crushed. i am convinced that europe has its mechanisms and good intentions which are now being expressed by indonesia and malaysia in relation to those intentions which are really unacceptable and which we should reject as are unfortunately being expressed by burma and myanmar and thailand. i think we're in a position to say to those countries, you have neighbors, you have friends, you have us as friends, please do what we expect of you because that's the minimum respect for human dignity.
written. ‒ the conflict in eastern ukraine, the conflicts in syria and iraq, the expansion of the terrorist organisation is, the libyan crisis and the terrorist threat in africa are direct threats to the security of the european union. the fact that the union cannot play a key role as an actor in relation to any of these threats is a result of its internal organisation and powers. the eu is too often forced to rely on the initiatives of one or more member states or on ad hoc alliances in which its role is marginal or secondary. the common security and defence policy therefore needs to be strengthened to become a more effective policy instrument and a guarantee of the security of eu citizens.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the implementation of the common security and defence policy, given the extremely challenging and volatile security situation in the eu's eastern and southern neighbourhood, the conflicts in ukraine, syria and iraq, as well as the spread of the terrorist organisation is, the libyan crisis and the terrorist threat. i agree that the eu will only be able to respond effectively to these new security challenges if its structures and member states work closely and in coordination. the eu needs to adapt urgently to these new security challenges, in particular by using existing cfsp tools and better linking them to eu external policy instruments, humanitarian aid and development policy, pooling resources and implementing new european solidarity mechanisms. the union should use its strength based on the mobilisation of diplomatic, security, defence, economic, trade, development and humanitarian instruments in compliance with the provisions of the un charter. the impact of the economic crisis on the weakening of the defence and security capabilities of the eu member states needs to be considered.
‒ the report by mr dané was written in response to the council's annual report on the common foreign and security policy and in the context of the european council meeting in june this year. in april, the commission presented guidelines to support more effectively the security capacity-building of third countries and to improve coordination and consistency in member states' approaches to security and development. the union's external action is also important for the security of the union, as it is the only way to ensure that the union's external action is not disrupted by external threats. i regret the inadequate response of the eu to international crises, all because of the long decision-making processes and the financial situation. international security is our security. in the hope of better coordinating cooperation, contributing to peace and responding to security challenges, i support the report of representative danjean. the report calls on the commission to develop a strategy for investing in equipment, to develop an institutional framework and to define financial assistance for the establishment of a common security and defence policy of the european union. the republic of croatia first joined one of the zsop missions with police representatives in 2002, namely eupol in afghanistan, and participated in eu navfor atalanta and eulex kosovo.
written. ‒ i supported the report on the implementation of the common security and defence policy because of the strategic importance of this policy in today's environment of the european union, which is exposed to numerous security risks. the european union is exposed to major crises and conflicts that have an impact on security and must therefore be prepared to respond to these risks. however, the eu currently has hardly the resources to make a decisive contribution to the prevention and management of international crises, and to preserve its strategic autonomy and interests, which is worrying. the commission should also be able to provide the necessary information to the member states and the commission. the report emphasises the importance of cooperation and support between member states and recalls the common target of 2% of defence spending on research. it also recalls that member states are not able to bear the burden of extensive defence research and technology programmes on their own and that funds already available should be used for this purpose. the report also stresses that only minimal progress has been made in uniting in joint projects. therefore, further work on these priorities is needed.
written. ‒ i support the report by mr dané, on which i had the opportunity to work as a shadow rapporteur on behalf of my s&d group. this report serves primarily as a summary of the implementation of the cap over the past year, but also as preparation for the upcoming council meeting in june. it is clear that the cap raises more questions than it answers, that it needs a fundamental reform and this report seeks to suggest ways of doing so, especially at a time when we are surrounded by long-standing and emerging crises along the 15000 km of the union's external borders. first of all, we need better coherence and coordination of common internal and external policies. we need to increase the capacity of joint operational and peacekeeping missions and a competitive military industry that can also be one of the foundations of economic growth. in this way, the common security and defence policy would carry its name in practice, which has not often been the case so far.
written. ‒ the level of uncertainty in the environment has not been higher than at the creation of the cfsp, and the lessons learned in the 1990s must be a warning for all future action on new security challenges. the situation in ukraine, the middle east, militant terrorism, cybercrime and the increase in migration all reflect the need for a more holistic approach to the civil and military aspects. i support this report, but i must stress the concern that the eu has hardly the necessary operational and industrial capacity to deal with international crises. a new strategy is therefore needed to address emerging security challenges. i agree with the high commissioner that we can no longer ignore the military threats in our neighborhood, and therefore need to focus on all aspects of crisis management, including offensive capabilities. the lack of constructiveness is evident in the unused athena mechanism, which has been used for only 5 missions and the level of common cost is only 10%. there has been significant progress in the coordination of the equipment and information exchange systems and i welcome the work of the eda in this regard. to speak of the eu's untapped potential as a global peace-keeping actor is unacceptable. the commission should also be able to provide the union with the necessary financial resources to support the implementation of the union's policy on the prevention of and fight against terrorism.
written. ‒ i support this report on the implementation of the common security and defence policy because i believe that the european union needs to take greater responsibility for its own security and defence and adapt to new security challenges such as the conflict in eastern ukraine, the conflicts in syria and iraq, the expansion of the terrorist organisation is, the libyan crisis, and the terrorist threat in africa. i believe that cooperation between member states would contribute to the fight against terrorism, organised crime, defence against cyberattacks, and thus increase the sense of security within the european union and prevent further escalation of conflict at its borders. to achieve this, eu countries need to adopt a common strategy to address emerging security challenges.
written. ‒ i supported the report on the implementation of the common security and defence policy because it is clear that the security situation in the eu and its eastern and southern neighbourhood is becoming more volatile and unstable due to a large number of security challenges. the conflict in eastern ukraine, the conflicts in syria and iraq as well as the expansion of the terrorist organisation is, the libyan crisis and the terrorist threat in africa (primarily in the sahel and the horn of africa) pose direct threats to the security of the union. the eu must be able to respond effectively to these security challenges, and it can only do so if its structures and member states work together in a joint and truly coordinated effort. the union and its member states need to adapt urgently to these security challenges, in particular by using existing cfsp tools and better linking them to eu external policy instruments, humanitarian aid and development policy, better coordinating national actions and pooling resources, and by flexibly implementing new european solidarity mechanisms. the borders between external and internal security are increasingly differentiated, so there is a need for greater coherence between external and internal instruments and for better cooperation and coordination between member states, in particular in the area of the fight against terrorism, organised crime, defence against cyber-attacks and migration.
written. ‒ i welcome the concrete measures and solutions recently introduced by the commission within the existing framework of financial rules. those measures are intended to shorten the procedures concerning civilian missions under the common security and defence policy. in the context of an increasingly volatile global situation, but also of developments in the union's immediate neighbourhood, i believe that the common security and defence policy needs to be strengthened in order to make it a more effective instrument of policy and a guarantee of the security of eu citizens.
written. ‒ i voted for the report on the financing of the common security and defence policy (csdp) because the eu security environment is becoming increasingly complex and there are new risks and threats that no member state can face alone. the common security and defence policy (csdp) should therefore be strengthened with a view to enhancing the security of citizens. the union's defence policy should be based on the principles of the charter of fundamental rights of the european union, which is a fundamental human right. i welcome the initiatives mentioned to reduce costs and increase efficiency. more coherence and complementarity between the various instruments is needed to achieve economies of scale and the best possible impact of eu spending. i support the pursuit of a higher level of military-civilian synergy when necessary. i agree that transparency and accountability are key requirements not only for democratic oversight but also for the proper functioning and credibility of missions carried out under the eu flag. i support the call on the commission to support the efforts of member states to implement operatively the decisions of the european council on the improvement of defence capabilities, while taking into account the budgetary constraints faced by some countries.
written. ‒ i support the report, the main purpose of which is to draw attention to the shortcomings in the financing of the common security and defence policy of the european union. the union should play a leading role in international conflicts and be able to respond to the security challenges of today. finance should not be an obstacle to the task of ensuring peace and security, especially in our neighbourhood where conflicts are increasing. missions are an important factor in the fulfilment of this task and procedures should be defined and simplified in order to make them more transparent and efficient. in this context, it is necessary to prepare an annual assessment of the overall security and defence policy costs of the member states, to establish a joint centre for the management of resources and equipment, to encourage better cooperation between member states and to monitor the management of mission budgets and public procurement. the second activity is military operations which are not financed by the member states from the budget of the european union but from the athena mechanism. the problem is that the participation rate of the mechanism in the financing of military operations remains low, thus demotivating member states to participate in conflict prevention and peace-keeping operations. the report notes with concern that the member states have not achieved the security and defence policy objectives set in helsinki in 1999, despite a common annual defence budget of approximately eur 190 billion.
written. ‒ i supported the report on the financing of the common security and defence policy because of the importance of this topic in the current european union environment. the main purpose of the report is to raise the concerns of the european parliament ahead of the european council in june and to draw attention to the shortcomings in the financing of the common security and defence policy system. the annual joint funding of all member states is around eur 190 billion, but this is still insufficient to fulfil the task of providing security in its environment. the report calls for more flexible and coherent funding, citing the main problems identified such as duplication, lack of transparency, lack of flexibility in rules and mechanisms, lack of transparency in financial allocations related to missions and operations. the report stresses the need for savings and initiatives that increase efficiency, coherence and complementarity, transparency and accountability. it calls for reform of the athens mechanisms, financing military operations and the common security and defence policy, along the lines of increasing the catalogue of common costs which currently remains very low and does not provide an incentive for member states to contribute.
written. ‒ i support the report by my colleagues cookan and tarrant on the financing of the common security and defence policy. the eu and its member states are the largest investors in funding various peacekeeping and crisis management operations around the world, and civilian and military missions and operations under the cfsp account for only a very small proportion of total funding. the importance of these gccs interventions in terms of peace-building is exceptional and member states should therefore take a clearer stance towards conflict prevention, post-conflict reconstruction and the maintenance of sustainable peace in conflict zones. the nature of the intervention under the pca remains very modest, especially military intervention, which is mainly a small-scale military training mission rather than a significant european contribution to peacekeeping and peace-keeping. the recent crises along 15,000 kilometres of european borders are the best indication and call to change this, as this report calls for and i support it.
written. ‒ the european security environment is facing many problems and challenges, and the boundaries between external and internal security are becoming less visible. the eu has a clear interest in taking on strategic responsibilities for european security and in addressing security challenges beyond the continent, and therefore the reinforcement of its role in the context of the berlin plus agreement must be stronger. i support this report, but i am concerned that despite a common annual defence budget of some €190 billion, we are failing to achieve the main objectives of helsinki. we can't afford to keep talking about missed opportunities. good financial management of resources, more flexible and more efficient implementation of the mission are sine qua non conditions. it is necessary to examine certain financial aspects of military missions and operations, the athena mechanism has been used for 5 military operations, the share of common costs is only 10%. the lisbon treaty provided for the implementation of the task by a group of states, which has not been used. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the eu-us strategy for the middle east and north africa, and will continue to monitor the implementation of the eu-us strategy for the middle east and north africa. i welcome the call to link internal security stakeholders with external defence stakeholders in terms of consolidating financial rules and other forms of cooperation. the high representative should take the lead in the psc with a view to better coordination and improved cooperation. multiple funding sources need to be transformed from a problem to an advantage because we need to talk about successful implementation, not untapped potential.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the financing of the common security and defence policy and i consider that the issue of financing missions and operations is of key importance. i regret that the discussion on this topic launched by the council in december 2013 has so far not led to concrete proposals and i call for the systematic use of the athena mechanism to finance csdp operations and the cost of sending missions, in particular as regards the use of eu combat groups, the infrastructure to house combat forces, the costs associated with the establishment of entry points to the operational sites and, where appropriate, the security stocks of food and fuel. it is necessary to reconsider the financing of missions and operations under the jcpoa so that budgetary resources are used in a better and more cost-effective way with appropriate democratic oversight of all civilian and military missions and operations at the level of the eu institutions. i also welcome the measures introduced by the commission within the existing framework of financial rules to shorten the financial procedures for civilian missions under the jcpoa. in addition, i welcome the fact that possible savings of around eur 16 million have been identified, which could allow for the financing of further missions should they be needed in the near future.
written. ‒ the fact is that eu member states are still second in the world in terms of defence spending and arms exports. this shows that the member states and the union still play a key role in the global arms trade and defence procurement. nevertheless, there is an evident need for better coordination of national defence planning procedures and in this regard i welcome the adoption by the council of a policy framework for systematic and long-term defence cooperation. in conclusion, i call on the commission to clearly identify and mobilise eu financial resources and instruments to promote the establishment of a european common market for the defence industry.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the impact of changes in european defence markets on europe's security and defence capabilities, as changes in defence markets call into question europe's autonomy in this area. this is particularly important to pay attention to in view of the complex security environment in the eu. the commission should also be able to assess the impact of the union's defence policy on the union's external defence policy, in particular by assessing the impact of the union's external defence policy on the union's external defence policy. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's policy on defence and will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's policy on defence. it is necessary to use taxpayers' funds efficiently and to make progress in establishing a european defence equipment market and to develop a competitive european defence technology and industrial base (edtib), capable of achieving synergies through increased cross-border coordination and providing the necessary capabilities for the cfsp.
written. ‒ the current situation shows that the crisis is leading to a general reduction in defence budgets by member states, thus putting into question their readiness to participate in peacekeeping missions and military operations. the commission also found that the union industry had a significant market share in the union market. on the other hand, armed attacks, crises such as in the republic of macedonia, hybrid wars and major instability and violations of human rights and freedoms are happening in our neighbourhood and affect the union as a whole and we need to address them with a common approach. the establishment of competitive and integrated defence industries would result in a higher military capability of the member states, but would also have a positive economic impact. the development of the defence industry should not only focus on military equipment but also on various technologies that could help both member states and third countries to combat digital threats. military technology should serve primarily as a means of prevention and to help third countries to increase their security capacity. in order to create a more effective common security and defence policy of the member states, i supported the report by ms gomez, who proposes a series of changes to strengthen the union's military capabilities, but also the military industry.
written. ‒ the european union faces many challenges on its southern and eastern borders, such as migration, political instability, insurgency, covert and even open warfare. most of the causes of the unrest that either destabilize the economies of our countries or represent a dangerous humanitarian situation that we cannot and must not ignore, are caused by instability in neighboring countries or by instability caused by the policies of other powers towards our neighbors. the european union, with a clear foreign policy, backed by a strong economic and security and defence policy, can contribute to peace and stability. unfortunately, the fact is that without a recognized military force you cannot be a serious political player on a global scale. european defence policy is linked to the membership of most member states in the north atlantic alliance. the obligation of the member states of the nato alliance is to contribute to the common defence policy, according to known financial criteria. a clear common security and defence policy, focused on achievable objectives and backed by adequate and secure funding, can help overall economic growth, but also the seriousness of european foreign and economic policy globally, which is why i supported this report.
written. ‒ i support the report by ms gomez, who rightly highlights the concern about the increasing number of armed conflicts, the outbreak of low-intensity crises, hybrid and proxy warfare, state failure, instability and numerous cases of human rights violations in the eu's immediate neighbourhood, and the threat of terrorism within and outside the eu. at the same time, member countries are shifting and generally reducing their defense spending. i agree with the rapporteur that a highly competitive, modern and unified european defence industry strategy is key to developing european defence capabilities and to achieving a positive spill-over effect on related economic sectors, and that cooperation, partnerships and joint initiatives should be prioritised and incentives provided to this end. the establishment of a single defence market would ensure full transparency and prevent duplication of effort leading to market distortions. the success of the psc's peace and security missions depends heavily on its rapid reaction capabilities and greater integration is crucial to simplify procedures and cut costs.
written. ‒ i support this report but i must express concern about the pervasive cuts in defence budgets in most member states, which puts the union in a risky position by giving up strategic resources and capabilities and the opportunities that a coordinated defence policy and association would bring. the emergence of armed conflict, hybrid warfare, instability and human rights violations in the eu's immediate neighbourhood, and the threat of terrorism within the eu, are a matter of concern. security threats are common to the eu as a whole and need to be addressed in a unified and coordinated manner, combining civilian and military means. the european defence sector is becoming increasingly dependent on external markets, which, combined with declining defence budgets, is a worrying development. the lack of generous defence budgets needs to be compensated by better cooperation between member states, including the formulation of defence budget policies and the coordination of strategic choices related to the acquisition of military equipment. the commission notes that the commission has not provided any evidence that the union industry has been able to obtain a fair price for the product concerned. the security of supply mechanism should include an effective system of surveillance of strategic assets and supplies from third countries to identify existing and potential shortcomings. mutual guarantees of security of supply between member states are a fundamental element in the creation of a single european defence market.
written. ‒ i support this report because i believe that european defence markets need to be unified, become more economical and more transparent. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's commitments in the field of defence. the increasing frequency of conflicts on the eu's borders, such as the conflicts in ukraine, iraq, syria and libya, as well as the recent unrest in macedonia, point to the need to improve the protection of eu citizens. in order to achieve those objectives, a modern and unified european defence industry strategy, the development of european defence capabilities, the harmonisation of national defence budgets and plans and the achievement of economies of scale are necessary.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the impact of changes in european defence markets on security and defence capabilities in europe. the introduction in 2009 of a new legislative pact on the european defence market and the transposition of those rules into national law by all 28 member states have created a european defence equipment and services market that is not sufficiently unified, cost-effective and transparent. this could further increase the dependence of the european defence sector on external markets, in an era of direct threats to european security not seen since the end of the cold war. the commission should also be able to provide the union with the necessary financial resources to support the implementation of the union's external action programmes. in order to fully exploit the potential of the european defence market, a highly competitive industrial base oriented towards innovation and technology is needed. i also invite the commission, in order to make the best use of its resources, to encourage member states to implement joint procurement procedures through central purchasing bodies, such as the european defence agency, as provided for in directive 2009/81/ec.
madam president, the g7 meeting in bavaria will have three themes that are closely linked, namely the post-2015 development goals, migration policy and relations, namely dialogue with africa. of course, there is a responsibility of the world's most developed countries to support the development of those who are the poorest, but there is also of course a strategic interest in this, because supporting sustainable development and eradicating extreme poverty in our neighbourhood is extremely important for our own security and the security of our citizens. ensuring conditions of peace and stability in our neighborhood is what ensures our security. but to do that, you need at least two things, and that's the right policies and on the other hand financial resources. as far as the right policy is concerned, i think at least one part of it has to be refocusing our development aid policy. we need to focus much more on building inclusive and effective institutions in fighting corruption in developing countries, in promoting good governance for peace and stability in those countries. of course, we need financial resources, and yesterday the council confirmed the european union's commitment to allocate 0.7% of national income to development aid. however, the council did not set a date yesterday for doing so. so we can achieve that goal, but maybe not until 2030. so we have to say here today that it's not going to be enough if we want to eradicate extreme poverty by 2030. we need to hit the 0.7% target much sooner. we need to include other developed countries and that's why the g7 is a good format, and we need to mobilize private sector resources and also mobilize the resources of developing countries to achieve development goals towards the new post-2015 development framework.
madam president, the summit of heads of state and government is always an opportunity to discuss and reach important conclusions and guidelines that affect the whole world. topics such as the world economy, foreign, security, and development policies are common topics of conversation. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the new rules and to monitor the implementation of the new rules. to this should be added the theme of promoting women's vocational education and bringing entrepreneurship closer to women. i am pleased that chancellor merkel has decided to engage in an open dialogue with civil society, and in this context i consider it important to meet young people, who are the most affected by the long-term recession. openness to the public and the accessibility of politicians to citizens is the direction in which policy, and certainly the institutions of the european union, should move.
madam president, there are two themes that i would like to highlight in particular, which i consider to be of the utmost importance at this g7 summit. the first is related to migration, to africa, to ebola, to all the other things we often talk about in parliament, and of course to the tragedies we have seen in the mediterranean. so i want to believe that the g7 will also have concrete results when we talk about all those issues that are important, and we talk of course about migration policy and about africa. the second theme, which is also extremely important to me as rapporteur in this parliament for the adriatic-ionian strategy, is the importance of the european seas, the world's seas, for the prosperity of those countries that have a sea and i believe that the seas can be the sources of new development, because i am sure that it is one of the most powerful resources that our planet has.
mr president, on monday i visited an istrian primary school and was made aware of the sad fact that many children come to school without breakfast, without a glass of milk, let alone the opportunity to get some fruit. so i warn you that the situation in many countries of the european union, when we talk about children, about young people, is worrying. that's why this is a great programme and that's why i personally wholeheartedly support it and i want to thank you for the acceptance of many of our amendments, of which i particularly highlight the importance of croatia being included as a new member country of the european union, and that will be significant for the children in schools in croatia, but i'm also happy that the amendment to prefer local products, to prefer local foods, and therefore the third amendment, where we talk about olive oil, honey and other products that are similar to those products that are local products, is something that is generally acceptable and very valuable in this report.
mr president, every year 30 million pupils in european schools have participated in the subsidised milk and fruit scheme since 1977 and 2009 respectively. i support the proposal to merge the programs, increase funding to 230 million euros per school year and facilitate their utilization at the state and local level. i recognize the importance of educating children about proper nutrition, but this program is not just about that. for some students, unfortunately, it is necessary because their parents cannot afford to pay for their children's meals. i also draw attention to the disparity between the new member states and the old ones in the allocation of milk resources, since the use of the funds so far is such that it cannot be the sole criterion. the commission notes that the commission has not provided any information on the actual costs of the project. let's not let administrative reasons delay a valuable program. no sparing those who need us most. i call on the commission to complete the process of evaluating existing programmes as soon as possible and to continue with the council the process of adopting a new and fairer programme. i congratulate the rapporteur, mr tarabelli, and the support of the european parliament is beyond doubt.
mr. president, the fruit and vegetable subsidy program and the milk subsidy program for educational institutions have now been combined into one scheme. these programmes are an expression of european concern for children and their healthy nutrition in schools across europe. i am also pleased that my proposal to remove the controversial historical criteria that prevented croatia, as a new member state, from participating in the school milk scheme was accepted, thus eliminating the discrimination of croatian children in relation to their european peers. according to an analysis by the ministry of science, education and sports and the ministry of social policy and youth in croatia, more than 10 000 children's parents cannot afford to pay for school meals. this program will ensure that these children receive a free and healthy meal at school and never have to go hungry again. this programme opens up opportunities for local food producers to market their local products in schools, which is a 'new market' for them. so i expect the member states to make it possible, for the sake of the children and the farmers, because home is healthy and home is best.
mr. president, first of all, i'd like to congratulate the rapporteur, mr. tarabelli, on a job well done. the statistics in the european union are devastating. one in three children is overweight or obese. also, children are eating too little calcium, adults are eating too little fruits and vegetables, 30 to 50 percent of what's recommended. obesity is born, and with it all the bad things that come with it, which are diseases, burdens on the individual, the family and society as a whole. this scheme is great, partly because it introduces very good eating habits from early childhood, and partly because it allows farmers to put their home-grown produce directly on the school tables. croatia has so far been very successful in this action and that is why i am particularly pleased that my fellow parliamentarians have supported my amendment, which i tabled with rapporteur tarabell, to exclude croatia from the historical criteria and to allow it to benefit from this to the full.
member of the commission.– mr president, i welcome the opportunity to discuss eu development aid to eritrea in the light of documented human rights abuses. respect for human rights is a basic principle of eu foreign policy and therefore features regularly in our dialogue with partners in the entire world, including eritrea. in this dialogue, and also publically, we raise our concerns that eritrea continues to violate its obligations and does not respect fundamental human rights. we urge concrete gestures such as the liberation of the prisoners – notably mr dawit isaak, an eu-eritrean citizen – who have been detained incommunicado since 2001. the european union also raises those concerns in international forums, notably at meetings of the un human rights council, where we appeal to eritrea to cooperate with the un special rapporteur and the un commission of inquiry for eritrea and to give them access to eritrea. that said, it is our belief that continued engagement with eritrea is the best option for a number of reasons. firstly, engagement creates the possibility to stress the need for concrete changes and progress across the board, and to insist on the importance of adhering to international standards on human rights. isolation rarely helps in these circumstances. secondly, engagement allows us to continue supporting the population and improving living conditions. lastly, engagement contributes to peace and stability in the country and the wider region. some minor progress has recently been achieved: for example, in december 2014 the government of eritrea announced that the previously indefinite duration of national service would be limited to 18 months for new recruits. this is an important decision, since the open-ended duration of national service was a major push factor in migration. the decision now needs to be implemented. we must do what we can to alleviate the huge stress upon eritrea’s population. they are facing a problematic food security situation and a lack of economic prospects and opportunities. the sharpest evidence of their despair is the outflow of people, especially young people, many of whom venture on a dangerous journey, trying to enter the eu by illegal means, and are easy prey for traffickers. that is why european union development projects currently being implemented under the 10th european development fund (edf), in the amount of eur 53.7 million and covering the period from 2008 to now, relate mainly to agriculture and food security. the second sector is governance, with the focus on capacity-building and access to justice at grassroots level, in particular through community courts. our aid is provided through projects and not through budget support. strict monitoring procedures ensure that eu aid directly benefits the people, creates jobs and reduces poverty. there is no support to the central government in eritrea. as regards the programming of the aid under the 11th european development fund, discussions are ongoing. it is proposed that eu development aid will support social and economic development, including through increasing access to renewable energy, in order to achieve tangible results for the population such as the creation of more jobs and the improvement of people’s livelihoods in eritrea. in addition, support for governance-related activities that would promote sustainable economic growth is also provided for. apart from the eu cooperation financed from the european development fund, the european union has also allocated thematic funds in order to support, and build the capacity of, formal and informal civil society organisations active in the areas of social, cultural and economic rights. although the context currently allows for only limited visibility, this engagement with non-state actors does encourage plurality and will strengthen citizens’ participation, including in the medium and long term. let me say, too, a few words about migration. eritrea is a key country of origin. by improving the livelihoods of the people of eritrea, development aid is addressing and will continue to address the root causes of migration. eritrea is an active partner in the khartoum process, under which human rights issues related to migrants and refugees will be addressed, as agreed in the ministerial declaration signed in rome on 28 november 2014. our development aid should also be seen in a regional context. through regional projects the european union is linking eritrea better to the region. recent developments in yemen are of particular concern and may have serious implications for the stability of the region and of eritrea, which is located just across the red sea from yemen. the eu support for the population enables people to be less vulnerable to radicalisation, and eu aid should thus also be seen as contributing to peace and stability in the region. i would be happy to hear your views on eu engagement with eritrea.
on behalf of the ppe club. mr president, mr commissioner, eritrea is indeed one of the poorest countries in the world. in the human development index, it is 177th out of 187 countries. two-thirds of the population is below the poverty line. although this is a relatively small country in africa, with a population of about 6 million, about 30% of all asylum applications in the european union come from eritrea. the reason is the systematic violation of human rights, a dictatorship in eritrea that has lasted for too long. many refer to eritrea as the world's largest prison or africa's north korea. so where are our priorities, our priorities and our development policies? in the 10th european development fund, the priorities, as you said, commissioner, were mainly related to food security, to rural development. no one doubts that these are important issues and that if our aid is going to the citizens, to the people of eritrea, and not to the dictatorial government, then it is justified. however, good governance, the issue of building inclusive institutions and respect for human rights must be built into the 11th european development fund. simply put, if we want to coordinate our development foreign and security policy and, of course, our immigration policy, this must also become a priority for our development aid. we have no illusions, development aid cannot and must not be a substitute for foreign and security policy, but they must work together to achieve the goal, and that goal is to make eritrea a freer country for its people where human rights will be respected.
mr. president, someone made a very good comparison and said that eritrea is north korea in africa. the dictatorial regime, the human rights violations, all that we know very well is happening in that african country, rightly demands that we have a very balanced policy. i think that is precisely what our commissioner mimica showed and said in his opening speech, that balance that goes not to help the regime and not to give money to the budget of that regime, but to help concrete projects that will allow some such quality of life in that area and perhaps still allow some people to stay in that country, instead of coming to the mediterranean sea and then the question is where they will end up. so i want to express my support for this concept and the commission's strategy.
mr. president, the situation in eritrea is a wake-up call. it's even managed to take north korea off the top of the list of countries with the most censorship and media restrictions. the country that has no independent journalism has also become the largest and most restrictive jailer of journalists in africa. but eritrea is not just dangerous for journalists. those who do not belong to the four religions recognized by the eritrean government are also persecuted. people living below the poverty line are in fear of unlimited military conscription and forced labor, constant mental and physical abuse. this fear is driving 4,000 eritreans out of their country every month, and it's also the reason why an entire football team fled the country in 2013. we cannot talk about development when fundamental human rights are being violated. eritreans would rather die trying to flee their own country than stay alive in inhumane conditions. since january, 14,000 eritrean refugees have arrived in italy by boat. therefore, the eritrean issue has become a european union problem, and i call on the european union to start addressing it.
madam president, in a previous speech i called on the commission to declare internet freedom, the digital society, as the fifth european freedom. however, all freedoms, including this freedom, must be protected. so this fifth freedom of the internet that i advocate at the european union level and i advocate this freedom in general and the creation of our new era, the digital age is something that is ahead of us, that is our life, but it also requires appropriate protection, because we can talk already today about a type of cyber terrorism. every terrorism must have some sort of leverage to defend against such a terrorism, and especially when we talk about this situation of media freedom, about what is in some way the cornerstone of our freedoms in europe and the values of our european union. so the answer to war must be very clear.
written. computer attacks occur almost every hour. the attacks are often targeted at media websites and they pose a threat to media freedom and the free flow of information. such attacks have not been resisted even by the powerful bbc, and we have also witnessed similar activity in croatia. it would be interesting to find out who it was that the daily.hr website was silenced just before the presidential elections in croatia and before the pre-election silence itself. given that a hack costs over a thousand dollars a day, it's not entirely certain that it's someone's private game. it's about someone who has the money to get it started, and keep it going for days, and apparently weeks, months. and right in the middle of the presidential campaign. these developments are an indication that the eu security strategy as well as the network and information security directive need to be improved in their implementation.
mr. president, according to unicef, every year 15 million girls, some as young as five, are married without their consent, mostly to much older men. such premature and often forced marriages are most common in developing countries. in fact, one in three girls under 18 in developing countries is married off in such an early marriage. in countries like niger, chad and mali, the figure is even more staggering, with more than 70 percent of girls entering into early marriage. this practice, in addition to being an unacceptable violation of the human rights of women and girls and a serious threat to their health, education and socioeconomic status, has a truly devastating impact on development and the economy. forced marriages are a serious brake on our efforts to eradicate poverty. we must therefore put an end to this harmful practice through increased efforts in the framework of development policy in cooperation with third countries. this year we have a unique opportunity to put women and girls at the heart of global development efforts, as parliament called for in its resolution on the eu positions in the negotiations for a new development framework after 2015, when we sent a clear message that women and girls must be at the heart of development efforts, because we can stop the cycle of poverty before it starts. i therefore welcome the efforts also explained by commissioner mimica and invite the commission, of course, to continue to follow a human rights-based approach and, in dialogue with the recipient countries, to insist on the development and implementation of legal frameworks that will help to eradicate this harmful practice.
mr. president, the forced early marriage of girls is a terrible practice that i condemn in the strongest terms. i believe that we must fight vigorously against this kind of violence against girls who are not physically or mentally ready to marry and take on the demanding roles of wife and mother. it is indeed important that in our relations with third countries we insist on respect for the human rights of children and the fight against this kind of violence against girls. but i think it is even more important to root out this terrible practice in the european union, because otherwise europe loses its credibility in influencing third countries. the quality integration of minority groups, which are predominantly practitioners of forced marriage of girls, should not only be an option for member states, but also for members of minorities, but also an obligation. this practice has no place in european societies, it should be clearly condemned and perpetrators of such violence against girls punished severely.
mr president, we are witnessing appalling practices when it comes to girls, when it comes to violence against young women and we really must do everything we can to stop these practices. what i want to emphasize is that it's psychological and physical trauma for these girls or young women. in any case, unfortunately, i have to say that, apart from africa where this is a very common practice, unfortunately also on our continent and in the member states, and especially in some of the countries that are our candidates or want to join the european union, in the balkans, we still have such a very bad practice or practice that parents already decide in advance when their children are going to have to get married in individuals, namely boys and girls. in this context, i call on the european commission to support the european union member states to sign the istanbul convention.
mr. president, one in three girls are married before the age of 18, including one in nine before the age of 15. 15 million a year worldwide, more than 41,000 a day, one girl every second. let me be more specific. from my first word to the end of my one-minute speech, 30 girls will be forced into marriage. why would you do that? because tradition dictates it, because they're born in the wrong gender, because they're too costly for families, because their safety depends on being forced into marriage. children have a right to be children. girls must be able to choose for themselves whom they marry and with whom they start a family. we must provide them with a childhood, safe and carefree. after all, it is on this that we and the future of mankind depend. to save childhood, to ensure that every child has access to education, we must strive for this and take concrete action. it is not just a matter of adhering to international conventions and declarations, it is also a matter of humanity.
written. the united nations definition of forced marriage is clear and opposes marriage without the consent of both parties as well as family or societal coercion in marriage. the fact is that girls, women and even girls are the most common victims of forced marriage, often deprived of their right to education and development, and often victims of domestic violence, including honour killings. violence against women is a violation of women's human rights and a brutal form of discrimination based on gender inequality. the council of europe convention on preventing and combating violence against women and domestic violence, also known as the istanbul convention, applies a similar approach and is a very valuable legal and policy framework for effectively combating violence against women at national and european level. europe as a world leader in many areas must be a model for other countries in protecting women's rights, so we must insist that all eu member states not only sign the istanbul convention, but also implement it, given that only nine of the 23 countries in the union have implemented this strategic document on combating violence against women.
mr president, the european union and the member states still have no effective response to what is happening in our forests. the death of the chestnut tree by pests and fungi means the destruction of biodiversity in our forests. i do not need to say how important the brown chestnut is for biodiversity, but i also want to emphasise how important it is for many rural areas of the european union and how positively brown chestnut affects the local economy and all that it means for rural areas of the european union. i therefore call on the european commission, the member states, regional and local authorities to make further efforts to protect the chestnut tree, which is now disappearing in 16 eu countries, by means of a pest against it and a fungus against chestnut tree in 24 eu countries.
mr president, recently commissioner jourová, presenting the annual report of the european alert system for dangerous products on the market, said that among such products as much as 28% are toys, of which 60% are imported from china. they are the second most common safety risk to consumers after motor vehicles. the worrying thing is that the number of such toys is increasing year by year. in 2014, 70 more types of toys were recalled than in 2013. while the commission likes to boast that rapex works excellently, it should be borne in mind that it is only after some parents buy and their child uses the product that it is withdrawn. for example, if a child is exposed to chemicals in clothing or toys or eats harmful baby food, the damage is already done. it is extremely important in the market to protect the youngest. although the european commission's blacklist has defined direct sales to the youngest consumers as unfair commercial practices, children continue to be bombarded with advertisements that are targeted only at them and are dragged by the hand in shopping centres. protecting the most vulnerable consumers should be our priority, and the regulations we have must be put into practice.
written. ‒ one in three children in the eu is either overweight or obese. studies have shown that children also consume too little calcium. adults, on the other hand, consume only 30 to 50 percent of the recommended amount of fruits and vegetables, and more than half are obese. poor diet leads to the development of serious diseases that burden the individual, his family, and society as a whole. the school fruit and milk scheme is a fine program for forming healthy eating habits from an early age. the commission has also proposed that the aid be granted to the following undertakings: the regulation also proposes to reduce administrative barriers to participation in the programme, as a 2011 report by the eu court of auditors showed that schools, suppliers and manufacturers face many bureaucratic and organisational obstacles if they want to participate in the programme. my amendment, which asked for croatia to be excluded from the historical criterion, was also adopted at the meeting of the ep's committee on agriculture.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the proposal for a decision of the european parliament on the opening and the mandate for interinstitutional negotiations on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending regulation (eu) no 1308/2013 and regulation (eu) no 1306/2013 as regards the support programme for the supply of fruit and vegetables, bananas and milk in educational establishments, given the importance of the programme for children and young people across europe. i think it's an excellent programme which, in addition to providing for the inclusion of croatia, allows educational institutions to be supplied with local and regional foodstuffs and products, such as olive oil or honey. in some member states, the current situation in schools is not satisfactory due to the shortcomings that exist in the child nutrition framework. it is therefore of the utmost importance that those aids ensure the efficient and effective implementation of programmes aimed at achieving a healthy and balanced diet.
written. ‒ i supported the proposal of the committee on agriculture and rural development to open interinstitutional negotiations to increase coordination between the two regulations and to manage programmes more efficiently and to help. the regulation and the programmes are designed to promote healthy eating habits among children and encourage the consumption of fruit, vegetables and dairy products, which are an important sector of european agriculture, but they operate within different legal and financial frameworks and show some significant differences in form and functioning. in this european year of development, and also at the expo 2015 in milan, one of the main themes is proper nutrition. nutrition plays a significant role and has an impact on the health of individuals throughout their lives, especially in children, because in addition to meeting basic energy and nutrient needs, a well-balanced and proper diet ensures their proper growth and development. statistics in croatia also show that unhealthy eating is a growing problem. data from the croatian institute of public health indicate that as many as 26.4 percent of school-age children are overweight, and 11.2 percent are obese, making us the seventh-largest country in europe in terms of obesity.
written. ‒ since taking office as a member of the european parliament, i have warned at almost every meeting of the committee on agriculture and rural development that the existing historical criteria for the award of eu subsidies for school milk meals are discriminatory for the republic of croatia and children in croatian schools, and i have called for them to be changed. in addition to the support of the european commission and the committee on agriculture and rural development, the european parliament, by voting on this report, accepted the proposal to allow croatia, as a full eu member, to participate in this programme. i'm satisfied because it's been shown that if we try and work hard, we can succeed, and this is an important program for croatia and for children in croatian schools. by accepting the report which exempted croatia from the so-called historical criteria, the european parliament sent a clear message to the council that croatia should not be discriminated against, and i hope that children in croatian schools will receive healthy and free meals of fruit, vegetables and milk from local farms, from local producers, for which schools will be a new market, as early as the next school year.
written. ‒ i support the decision to open and mandate interinstitutional negotiations on the support programmes for the supply of fruit and vegetables, bananas and milk in educational establishments. it's our responsibility to ensure that children have a quality childhood, which includes creating healthy eating habits, and free and healthy meals for schoolchildren are the bare minimum. by unifying the school milk and fruit distribution program, we are responding to the worrying data on the declining consumption of fruit and vegetables and dairy products. the situation is made worse by modern trends that show an increase in consumption directed towards processed foods, which often contain large amounts of added sugar, salt and fat. accordingly, such legal frameworks are needed to create a globally harmonised approach to healthy eating. the programmes are primarily set up to promote the consumption of fruit and vegetables and dairy products, but i must stress that they also support important sectors of european agriculture. i also welcome the fact that this directive also provides croatian schoolchildren with the means to ensure free and healthy meals at school.
written. ‒ taking into account the proposal of the committee on agriculture and rural development, and taking into account the fact that a downward trend in the consumption of fresh fruit and vegetables, including bananas and drinking milk, has been identified, i support this proposal for a decision to open interinstitutional negotiations and a mandate in relation to the support programme for the supply of fruit and vegetables, bananas and milk in educational establishments. i think that rationing the food distribution in educational institutions is an important task that needs to be addressed in order to spark discussions that would result in improved conditions in schools, but also lead to improved health of children.
mr president, mr commissioner and mr rapporteur, i want to make it very clear from the outset that i strongly support the establishment of such a crisis fund because i am convinced that it is absolutely essential for our farmers today. it is not just the current situation with russia that should offer us the opportunity to have an appropriate crisis fund, but the global situation on the world market and the need to protect our farmers who are increasingly facing extremely challenging world markets. i am therefore confident, mr rapporteur and commissioner, that this is the right course to take in this case. the creation of such a single fund will provide an additional security and, of course, as already said, a kind of solidarity between us in europe which is absolutely necessary, which is in fact the foundation of the european union. when we talk about the fact that my country, croatia, will not be included in this programme, but it is expected to be in 2022, i would not want to create a situation that would be very unpleasant for our farmers from croatia, that is, from bulgaria and romania, because they will allegedly be included only next year, but already next year, and croatia only in 2022. we need to send a clear message that these agricultural producers will also have the possibility to come and enter the doors of the solidarity fund and the agricultural fund because they too are facing a russian embargo, such as the export of mandarins from the neretva valley or they are facing problems of overall placement on the world market of various agricultural products. i therefore invite you to think very carefully about how we will really involve croatian agricultural producers in the use of this fund.
mr. president, budget planning is one of the most difficult tasks of responsible management and business of any organization. the eu's budget planning is the cornerstone of the 28 eu member states' global advantage, and the quality of life for half a billion of its citizens. the planning of the 2016 agricultural budget under the multiannual financial framework, which is one of the most complex mechanisms of the european union, governed by the common agricultural policy, requires planning and adequate reserves for major crises in the sector. the amount of the reserve for crises in the agricultural sector to be included in the commission's draft budget for 2016 is eur 441,6 million. this will be financed from direct payments to farmers exceeding eur 2000. the reduction of the aid by 1,39% to be fixed by this regulation shall not apply to payments to farmers in croatia, romania and bulgaria. european agriculture is facing losses caused by the political decisions that led to the russian embargo. farmers are not responsible for this crisis. the commission has not received any comments from interested parties on the compatibility of the aid with the internal market. these losses must be compensated from other sources, while the reserve we are discussing today must be saved for crises for which the funds are provided and which have their causes in the agricultural sector. i therefore call on the european commission to provide compensation from its reserve for milk, apple and mandarin producers who have suffered heavy losses for the second year in a row because of the russian embargo.
the question he raised by raising his blue card. i would like to ask you because i have listened carefully to your presentation do you agree with me that equality, freedom, health came before subsidiarity? do you think equality, freedom, health is a higher value than subsidiarity, even though i'm one of those who is very much in favor of subsidiarity? do you agree with me?
madam president, i regret that the report by mrs maria noichl, who is responsible for making recommendations and guidelines to the european commission on the promotion of equality between men and women for the new post-2015 strategy, has once again served certain groups to promote their radical and ideological demands. i find it unacceptable that this parliament has on its agenda another report which encroaches on the competence of the member states, undermines the family based on marriage between a man and a woman and directly promotes abortion as a human right. under the definition of sexual and reproductive rights in the beijing platform for action, which is celebrating its 20th anniversary, abortion cannot be promoted as a method of family planning under any circumstances. it is scandalous that this report encourages the european union to use development aid money to fund abortions and sterilizations of women in the poorest countries of the world, instead of providing them with education and self-employment. the report promotes gender ideology and encourages the adoption of regulations that will lead to discrimination against private entrepreneurs, especially those in the service sector, which is unacceptable. this report is irreparable. the european people's party therefore tabled an alternative resolution calling for the equality of men and women in the field of labour and social rights, access to education and the labour market, access to healthcare and the promotion of women's participation in decision-making positions of responsibility. i call on you to stand up for true equality between women and men in all segments of life and to support women and men who choose to start a family and have children because the family is the first school of interpersonal relationships, the place where we are taught equality and values. the family is where we learn what kind of people we should be, and that is why it would be important to support the family in the european parliament.
madam president, first of all, i'd like to thank my colleague noichl for a job well done and for recognizing the contributions of so many colleagues. the last gender equality strategy has not produced significant results and that is why i believe it is necessary to make this one more ambitious. achieving gender equality is a prerequisite for achieving the general objectives of the european union such as increasing employment, reducing the wage gap. i decided to introduce amendments myself, asking for easier access to project funding for women entrepreneurs. however, i do not think it is right to focus only on the economic approach to gender equality, so i also called for amendments related to sex education in schools to combat prejudice and gender inequality as effectively as possible. the question now is whether we will support a proposal which is a proposal of several political options of the european parliament and which has been adopted by the competent parliamentary committee or a subsequent alternative proposal of one political option. we meps are obliged to take decisions that have a very concrete positive impact on the lives of all citizens, not proposals that we know in advance will be a dead letter on paper. the alternative proposal is nothing more than a bureaucratic document that neither harms nor benefits, and does not include some of the most important dimensions of the fight for gender equality such as reducing violence against women, respecting groups facing double discrimination, e.g. disabled, roma, migrants, etc. furthermore, this proposal completely ignores the fact that the european union, with its system of values, should be an example in a world from which every day comes news of horrific crimes against girls and women. as shadow rapporteur on the budget, i am particularly sorry that the european people's party has not recognised the importance of budget planning, nor of the call for binding legislative acts. that leaves it all as an empty story. we are here to determine the position of women over the next five years, and that is why i support mrs noichl's proposal. (the president agreed to answer the question by raising the blue card under rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure.)
answer the question posed by raising the blue card. i do not think that mothers and motherhood are anything medieval and of course it is still possible in each member state to determine, under the subsidiarity system, that the same amount of money is to be allocated to mothers and motherhood as to men. the strategy does not therefore have to contain all the details, but the details can be determined in the national parliaments and in all the member states individually.
madam president, i was delighted to receive the information that this report had been accepted by a majority in the committee responsible, because it meant that we would finally be accepting this report here in parliament, which speaks above all of the fundamental values of the european union, of equality between women and men, of the freedom to which every person, every individual, is entitled. unfortunately, we see obvious differences here today and using the argument of ideology, so of course everyone has their own ideology and we're all different and we all belong to different political parties and we all carry our own ideas, but we have accepted some things in common on the board. on the other hand, when we talk about subsidiarity, i'm one of those people who thinks that maybe it's best to deal with things at the local or regional level. therefore, the principle of subsidiarity cannot be accepted because the more fundamental freedoms for me than subsidiarity are equality and freedom.
mr president, since its introduction, the single european emergency number 112 has significantly improved the system of emergency assistance throughout europe. but little attention has been paid to his promotion since then. the data shows that three quarters of eu citizens are unaware that this number can save their lives, and 70 percent have heard nothing about it in the past year. there is no progress in pinpointing the exact location of the casualties, despite advances in technology. the emergency access expert group has not met since 2013. also, the sms service to contact 112 in roaming is not working, which is a significant problem for people with special needs. so we urgently need better coordination and information to more effectively protect our citizens and make it easier for those who selflessly help those in need. and that certainly includes the croatian mountain rescue service, 800 volunteers who keep citizens safe 24 hours a day. this year, the european parliament also recognised their work by awarding them the european citizen's prize, and i congratulate them once again.
mr. president, there is no doubt that globalization has brought many good things to our planet. there is no reason why we should not support global trade, the world trade organization and all the good that trade brings. however, we must begin with the fact that globalization has brought a huge number of problems. one of those problems is certainly the large counterfeits and all the extra stuff that can be bought with logic and distribution through e-commerce. so in this particular case, when we talk about third countries, i think we definitely have to help those countries that want to protect intellectual property because we are protecting ourselves because counterfeiting is not just a matter of trademarks of various bags or some other nice things but for example the problem of medicines. so it's about our health and in that context i think we should support the commission.
mr. president, i want to make two points. one is that it is creativity and innovation that are the key to quality economic growth and the key to our future. without innovation, without research, without creativity there is no growth, but innovation, research and creativity are exactly what demands intellectual property protection. the second fact is that smes are the economic foundation of the european economy and combining these two facts, the desire for creativity in smes, is something i support and therefore i support the commission's position on the creation of an ipr expert group. i also support the action plan that goes towards protecting intellectual property because all of this together will allow us to bring creativity, that is, protected creativity, to the fore.
mr. president, first of all, i would like to thank my colleague, mr. landsbergis, for a quality, comprehensive report that sends pertinent political messages about the relations between the european union and russia today. the european union has in recent years wanted partnership, it wanted cooperation and it wanted a relationship with russia based on mutual respect. what did she get? it has received the policy of moscow which, through the doctrine of the russian world, has returned to the center the policy of the zone of influence which, whether by creating active or maintaining frozen conflicts, by supporting the rebels, by occupying the territories of neighboring countries or even by annexing it in its own parliament, has shown that it does not respect international law and european values at all. such a policy is unacceptable. trade relations, energy dependencies, these are elements on which russia is trying to divide the members of the european union. so at this point, with this report, we must send a united policy of support to those countries that want to choose their european path, and equally strongly say to moscow that this is not the policy of a responsible member of the security council as it is behaving today.
mr president, the events of recent years have confirmed russia as the most important neighbour of the european union, which has a strong influence on many aspects of the union's functioning. from interdependence in the energy sector to the ever-sensitive issues of european security to the impact on the union's internal relations. instead of being a partner in crisis hotspots across our shared neighborhood where the european union and russia can jointly seek answers to challenges, the aggression against ukraine, economic sanctions, blacklists, the growing suspension of democracy and the absence of real dialogue are the realities of the current relationship. unfortunately, the prerequisites for partnership are not met: a relationship of trust, respect for international principles and signed agreements. the minsk agreement doesn't work as a temporary ceasefire agreement either. and without fair respect for the territorial integrity of ukraine and the security order in europe, a partnership is not possible. the threat of the sudetenisation of the baltic republics or the limitation of the western balkan countries, where a showdown with the west is also taking place, is also dangerous. perhaps an illusion, but i still hope that president putin will have an open mind and be able to hear the humane messages during his meeting with pope francis tomorrow.
mr. president, there is no doubt that the solution to our relations with russia is to solve the problem in ukraine. there is no doubt that russia's annexation of crimea is a clear indication that the current russian government does not care much about european agreements and agreements. but what i want to emphasize here is the need for our friends in ukraine to understand, especially now that they are preparing a new constitution, that ukraine as a state should be a strong and highly decentralized state, following the example of many european countries and the many experiences that we have, especially when we talk about the protection of national communities, the protection of minorities, linguistic, cultural, national minorities. i think that combination of a decentralized state with minority protection could be the key to solving our problems with russia.
written. regarding the relations between the european union and russia, i consider that russia is violating democratic and international principles by illegally annexing crimea, by directly and indirectly participating in the armed conflict in ukraine and by violating the territorial integrity of georgia. moreover, russia's economic coercion and political destabilisation of its european neighbours is a deliberate violation of international law. in view of the above, the european union must thoroughly assess its relationship with russia and prepare a comprehensive plan for the future of its relations with russia and its eastern neighbours. the european union has for many years sought to build a mutually beneficial strategic partnership with russia and remains open to such a relationship and dialogue in the future when the preconditions are met. russia is an important partner of the european union and we should, for our mutual benefit, define and constructively establish a long-term sustainable relationship based on respect for international law.
madam president, each year the percentage of the reduction in direct payments is set aside in the reserve for agricultural crises. the commission has also proposed that the amount of direct payments in 2016 for 2015 be reduced by 1,39% per farmer for support above eur 2 000, thereby providing for an amount of eur 441,6 million to be set aside in the crisis reserve. i am personally opposed, as are many of my colleagues, to the use of this reserve to repair the damage suffered by farmers for political reasons, for which funds must be provided at the level of the whole budget and not just from the agricultural budget lines. in the event of natural disasters and emergencies, epidemics and similar crises, this reserve will be of enormous importance for the recovery of agriculture. the republic of croatia and our farmers are exempt from this allocation for the crisis reserve, because we still do not use 100% of the amount.
madam president, i supported the adjustment rate report for direct payments for 2015 which establishes a so-called crisis fund of eur 441,6 million in the 2016 budget, to be replenished from direct payments granted to farmers exceeding eur 2 000. this has exempted small farmers from these measures, which i welcome. the aid for all european farmers except those in croatia, romania and bulgaria will be reduced by 1,39%. the good news is that croatian farmers, even though they will not be taken the money from the incentives to fill the crisis fund, will be able to use the funds collected in crisis situations. this is logical because croatian farmers do not use 100% of the amount of direct payments from the european budget. we will not reach this level of eu funding until 2022. i take this opportunity to call on the commission once again to provide compensation from its reserve for farmers who have suffered as a result of the russian embargo and who have suffered enormous damage for the second year in a row as a result of political decisions.
written. ‒ i support the creation of a crisis reserve for agricultural payments. as a result of the gradual introduction of direct payments of the adjustment rate, the regulation applies to bulgaria and romania only from 1 january 2016 and to croatia only from 1 january 2022.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the draft legislative resolution of the european parliament on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council fixing the adjustment rate for direct payments provided for in council regulation (eu) no 1306/2013 for 2015, because of the importance and the support it gives to the agricultural sector, which is facing serious difficulties. the situation on the world market requires the establishment of a crisis fund to provide concrete support and security for european farmers. farmers need to feel the real solidarity of the european union in order to regain their confidence and strengthen european agriculture. however, it is important to ensure that croatian, but also bulgarian and romanian farmers have access to certain measures of assistance and financing in case of crisis.
written. ‒ agriculture and farmers today face many challenges that are becoming increasingly difficult to cope with. from market disturbances, which have been 'salted to the ground' by the russian embargo and the abolition of milk quotas, to climate change and nature, which reacts unpredictably every now and then and leaves severe consequences for the food production sector. the decision to set up a crisis fund is therefore justified and i supported it, as it will be able to intervene when necessary and help affected farmers in the most acute crises. i believe that this fund should not finance compensation for farmers who suffered as a result of the russian embargo, but that money should be taken from the eu general budget reserve for this purpose, given that the russian embargo is the result of a political decision and has no causes in the agricultural sector.
written. ‒ since farmers applying for direct payments for one calendar year (n) receive payments within a certain payment period in the financial year (n + 1). in addition, member states may make late payments to farmers after the expiry of that payment period, within certain time limits. those late payments may be made in the following financial year. where financial discipline is applied in a given calendar year, the adjustment rate should not apply to payments for which aid applications are submitted in calendar years in which financial discipline is not applied. therefore, in order to ensure equal treatment of farmers, it is appropriate to provide that the adjustment rate should only apply to payments for which aid applications are submitted in the calendar year in which financial discipline applies, irrespective of when the payment to farmers is made. i therefore support the rapporteur's opinion adopting the first reading position on the fixing of the adjustment rate for direct payments provided for in council regulation (eu) no 1306/2013 for the calendar year 2015.
written. ‒ i supported the report of my colleague, mr ašeriski, on the adjustment rate for direct payments for 2015. the commission should be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 290 tfeu concerning the establishment of a reserve to be set aside at the beginning of each year to provide support to the agricultural sector in the event of major crises affecting agricultural production or distribution, such as the russian embargo, by applying a reduction in direct payments under the financial discipline mechanism. the amount of the reserve for crises in the agricultural sector envisaged to be included in the commission's draft budget for 2016 is eur 441,6 million in current prices and the percentage of the adjustment rate for financial discipline is 1,393041%, which is calculated taking into account the fact that it will only apply to amounts of direct payments per farmer exceeding eur 2000 and not in all member states. in this context, it should be noted that bulgaria, romania and croatia are in the process of phasing in direct payments in the calendar year 2015 and are as such exempted from financial discipline.
written. ‒ i support this report on the agricultural sector on the slight reduction in the amount of direct payments. it is necessary that the reserve for providing additional support to the agricultural sector in the event of major crises affecting agricultural production or distribution is established at the beginning of each year in order to ensure that the annual financial ceilings for financing market related expenditure and direct payments are respected, in accordance with articles 25 and 26 of regulation (eu) no 1306/2013 of the european parliament and of the council.
written. ‒ i support this initiative to slightly reduce the amount of direct payments to help farmers and the agricultural sector in the european union in cases of major crises. it is important to note that these adjustments apply only to direct payments granted to farmers in the corresponding calendar year exceeding eur 2 000. in addition, in order to ensure equal treatment of all farmers, the adjustment rate will only apply to payments for which aid applications are submitted in the calendar year in which the financial discipline applies, irrespective of when the payment to farmers is made. furthermore, as a result of the gradual introduction of direct payments, the adjustment rate applies to bulgaria and romania only from 1 january 2016 and to croatia, which i represent in this parliament, only from 1 january 2022. in the other member states, the amount of the reduction in direct payments for the calendar year 2015 will be reduced by only 1,39%.
written. ‒ i supported this regulation as it establishes a reserve to provide additional support to the agricultural sector in the event of major crises affecting agricultural production or distribution, which i consider potentially extremely important and useful for the croatian farmer. since the fixing of that rate is done by a mechanical calculation and applies only to direct payments exceeding eur 2 000, i consider it commendable and justified to exclude the smallest european farmers from it, so that their already low incomes are not further jeopardised. as a member from croatia, i also correctly and fairly take the decision not to apply that financial discipline in croatia, bulgaria and romania, as those member states of the union are still in the process of phasing in direct payments in calendar year 2015.
madam president, the promotion of equality has always been at the heart of the european people's party and i am very proud to be able to speak in the european parliament today in defence of our values. i regret that left-wing groups are orchestrating items which, in my view, do not belong in this resolution. we have proposed an alternative resolution in which we have set goals and a framework, and this at all levels, local, regional, national, and also in all areas, education, health, work, etc. we are determined to combat violence against women, but i believe that the key role is that of the member states. the european union should not interfere in all areas. we want to address gender equality, but also in the member states, taking into account rights, but also individual laws, such as family law and the constitutions of individual countries. so i'm advocating that this area be a subsidiary area.
madam speaker, i am concerned that this parliament is spending taxpayers' money to produce documents that are contrary to the interests of the citizens who elected us. i am concerned when members of parliament clap their hands to pass amendments that deny every human being the right to life. i'm concerned that there is no dialogue and consensus in this room about common human values. the noichl report has caused a deep division in this parliament, it is contrary to the values in which i believe and live and that is why i voted against it. i also voted against this report because 48% of the paragraphs in the report directly contradict the eu principle of subsidiarity, 35% of the paragraphs are not related to the subject of the report itself, 42% of the paragraphs show open discrimination against men, and this is an equality report, 17% of the paragraphs contain a serious risk of restrictions on freedom of speech and the media, freedom of education and freedom within the framework of contracting, 7 paragraphs introduce elements that are not scientifically proven and unfounded allegations. this report is an embarrassment to the european parliament.
written. ‒ first of all, i would like to thank my colleague mrs noichl for a job well done and for recognising the contributions of so many colleagues. the last gender equality strategy did not produce significant results. that's why i think it's necessary that this one be more ambitious. achieving gender equality is a prerequisite for achieving the eu's overall objectives, such as increasing employment and reducing the wage gap. i myself introduced amendments seeking easier access to project funding for women entrepreneurs. however, i think it's not right to focus only on the economic approach to gender equality. i also asked for support for the introduction of sex education in schools to combat gender inequalities as effectively as possible.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the european parliament's motion for a resolution on the eu strategy for equality between women and men after 2015, as i have been committed to respect for human rights, equality and tolerance, the right to diversity, equal rights for all minorities, the right to freedom of expression, and to combating all forms of discrimination and violence since the beginning and throughout my political career. gender equality is a fundamental value of the eu. equal treatment and equal treatment should be achieved in all segments of the social and economic environment, equally in education, health, culture, employment, political action, the exercise of social rights, etc. i expect the european commission to take all measures to implement, respect and enforce the eu directive on equal treatment for women and men.
written. ‒ this year marks the end of the 2010 2015 strategy for equality between women and men, and it is necessary to assess the progress made and the achievement of the objectives and to create a new strategy for the coming period. i did not support the report by mrs marie noichl, which contains guidelines for a new strategy, because i consider that certain points do not belong in this report, and are of a sensitive nature and relate to fundamental human values. i support equality between men and women, but i do not support the subordination of ideological issues to equality issues and that is why i voted against this report.
written. ‒ i supported the adoption of an alternative epp resolution to this report, but the alternative resolution did not receive the necessary majority of meps and therefore i ultimately voted against the noichl report because unfortunately it failed to be corrected. the noichl report contains a number of highly controversial sections on sexual and reproductive rights calling for abortion as a human right, calling for the legalisation of lgbt marriages and the promotion of an eu-level lgbt roadmap. in the area of development aid, it calls for universal access to sexual and reproductive rights including access to abortion, given that 80% of women in africa are farmers, puts particular emphasis on the inclusion of a 'gender perspective' in all elements of food security programmes, promotes gender ideology and a gender perspective in all aspects and calls on the commission to develop models of best practices in sexual education. the noichl report is unacceptable to me because it does not promote equality between men and women, but is an expression of gender ideology which aims to change the fundamental values which europe inherits and which are inscribed in our hearts as people.
written. ‒ today we had a vote on the report prepared by mep maria noichl on the european union strategy for equality between women and men after 2015. i voted against this report because i believe, first of all, that it contains a number of elements which in no way help women to assert their important role and rights in all segments of society. i regret first of all that we are unable to reach agreement or consensus in the european parliament on such an important issue. when it comes to gender equality, we should not be engaged in ideological debates but continue to work constructively towards the real advancement of women's status and rights. given that this is a clear attempt to grossly infringe the principles of subsidiarity and proportionality, i believe that, in the context of the creation of 'better lawmaking', the european parliament should step up its support to national parliaments in monitoring this principle, so that european legislation becomes a real added value to legislative activities at national level.
written. ‒ i supported the eu strategy for equality between women and men after 2015 because i believe that the european union should be a model for gender equality and the promotion of women's rights. i support the development of specific mechanisms to strengthen the rights of different groups of women, including women with disabilities, migrants and ethnic minorities, roma women, older women, single mothers and lgbti women. i am in favour of a 'zero tolerance' level for violence against women and believe that member states should support raising awareness of the problem of violence against women. the promotion of annual campaigns to raise awareness of the source of violence and to involve more concretely the whole of society, and in particular men and boys, in the fight against violence against women is needed.
written. ‒ the establishment of gender equality and the promotion of women's rights is one of the key development objectives of any modern society. one of the main objectives towards achieving such equality is the eradication of discrimination against women in the labour market, in terms of pay, pensions, decision-making, reconciliation of family and professional life, and all forms of violence against women. i would like to stress that i welcome gender equality in all its aspects, but without infringing the right to life, which begins at conception, and therefore i do not support this report.
written. ‒ as a woman who has often faced discrimination in her career, i am deeply concerned about the attempts to abuse our just struggle for equality by certain groups within the femm board. i find it scandalous and utterly unacceptable that this constant promotion and open imposition of so-called reproductive rights is being perfidiously tried to permeate every resolution concerning equal treatment of women and men. we must not forget that the widespread availability of abortion as a contraceptive, which is at the heart of all feminist demands in this house, directly affects the freedoms and rights of other living beings, most of all the fundamental right to life of the unborn child. i believe this home has a sacred duty to protect those who are helpless, and unborn children are by far the most vulnerable group in that regard, because they cannot stand up for their right to life on their own. as a mother, i believe that sex education as a compulsory subject in schools is a gross violation of the right of parents to choose the best and most appropriate way to raise their own child. we should not force the education of children to be uniform, but we should leave it to the parents as the most competent to decide when and how their child is ready to receive and mature to process very important information from the sphere of sex education.
madam president, i supported the report on the strategy for the protection and enforcement of intellectual property rights in third countries, because it is necessary to take action to prevent and mitigate the damage caused by infringements of intellectual property rights. the eu loses €8 billion a year because of this. however, counterfeiting and infringements of intellectual property rights pose not only a major economic risk and loss, but also a risk to human health and safety. medicines are the most falsified product category for the fourth year in a row. this is why it is necessary to work on this strategy and on improving the system of intellectual property protection and to assist third countries in establishing a better and more effective intellectual property rights system. that's why i endorsed this report.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the european parliament's motion for a resolution on a strategy for the protection and enforcement of intellectual property rights in third countries, because i believe that one of the roles of the european union is to help third countries, but also other regional blocs, to improve democratic and legal values, such as the state of intellectual property protection, thus contributing to the strengthening of this right within the union itself. while globalisation has certainly contributed to the increase of this problem, greater transparency and stakeholder involvement in intellectual property and better coordination of internal and external policies in this regard are also needed. the fight against the violation of these rights is at the same time a fight against organised crime, which implies stronger cooperation with customs and market surveillance authorities and more effective international cooperation. in addition, particular attention should be paid to so-called 'e-commerce', which can pose a serious threat in the area and further encourage counterfeiting.
written. ‒ i welcome the strategy for the protection and enforcement of intellectual property rights in third countries, as i believe that creativity and innovation need to be protected and that it is important for the eu to protect copyright and licences in cooperation with third countries. the promotion of better protection of intellectual property rights and their enforcement in the wto and in all international circles is essential, in particular to open up new markets for european exports. encouraging enhanced cooperation between third countries to mutually recognise the right to provide the services of legal professionals in the field of intellectual property, and closer cooperation on copyright and licensing issues, is one of the key steps towards achieving the objectives of the european union. regular interaction with all stakeholders - right holders, public authorities, civil society, the european parliament - is needed to discuss the impact of intellectual property infringements in third countries and to explain the european union's efforts to improve the enforcement of intellectual property rights in those countries. it is also important to protect eu economic operators and consumers in third countries. the establishment of a dialogue with priority countries is important to facilitate the implementation of intellectual property protection. the application of the related rules in third countries opens up various opportunities for investors from the european union and the world, which is a strong incentive for the advancement of new technologies.
written. ‒ i support the report by mr mosca, who takes an objective approach to this extremely complex subject. the fact is that the debate on intellectual property rights should be based on an expert examination of past experience as well as future technological trends while maintaining consistency between internal and external aspects, distinguishing between physical and digital environments, taking into account the ambiguities of all stakeholders, including smes and consumer organisations, and seeking to ensure full transparency of interests and appropriate legitimacy in order to strike a fair balance between the interests of all concerned. it is also a fact that counterfeiting is no longer limited to luxury goods but also includes goods of common use such as toys, medicines, cosmetics and foodstuffs which, if counterfeited, may cause injury or pose a serious risk to the health of the consumer. the prevalence of counterfeits is best illustrated by the fact that 72% of counterfeits were found in small packages just before they were delivered to final customers. as a leader in new technologies and the origin of most of the manufacturers of counterfeit products, the eu therefore needs better coordination of external and internal policies and better information for consumers about the potentially harmful effects of these products on their health. in particular, i support the call for the protection of geographical indications in the negotiation of free trade agreements with third countries, and in particular in the negotiation of the transatlantic trade and investment partnership (ttip).
written. ‒ i supported the report by the rapporteur moscai on the strategy for the protection of intellectual property rights in third countries. as intellectual property rights contribute to the development of innovation and creativity and their protection is a key factor for europe's competitiveness, it is clear that europe needs a more ambitious strategy for the protection of intellectual property rights compared to its business partners. recent studies have shown that ipr-intensive sectors account for around 39% of eu gdp and up to 35% of all jobs, if indirect jobs are taken into account, and that the eu loses some eur 8 billion of its gdp annually to counterfeiting and piracy. action is therefore needed to tackle intellectual property infringements and thus protect the value of creation in the eu and in third countries, i.e. to reduce the risks they pose to the health and safety of consumers and to the environment, and to avoid economic and social consequences for eu businesses and producers.
written. ‒ one of the key priorities of the europe 2020 strategy is to develop an economy based on knowledge and innovation. i agree that intellectual property rights contribute to the development of innovation and creativity and that their protection is a key factor for europe's competitiveness. europe therefore needs a more ambitious strategy for protecting intellectual property rights vis-à-vis its business partners. the debate on the fair balance between the interests of rightholders and end-users is multidimensional and highly complex, and is marked by the economic interests of both parties. i believe that there needs to be an informed and transparent debate on the protection and enforcement of intellectual property rights, by which we need to define exactly what it would mean for consumers. the call for greater stakeholder involvement in the debate on intellectual property rights must be accompanied by measures to ensure transparency for all stakeholders. the commission has also taken into account the fact that the commission has not provided any evidence that the measures in question are necessary to ensure the proper functioning of the internal market. the strategy does not pay sufficient attention to the distinction between physical counterfeiting of trade marks and patents on the one hand and copyright infringement on the other, especially in the digital environment.
written. ‒ i support this report because i believe that strengthening intellectual property rights contributes to the development of innovation and creativity. the creation of a strong safeguard framework combined with effective remedies and the creation of an environment in which the interests of member states and third countries are complementary is necessary. the establishment of a properly coordinated policy on intellectual property rights would lead to improved standards of protection and enforcement of intellectual property rights at the global level. i believe that there is a need for a transparent public debate in order to protect private and public interests as well as to align internal and external policies on the protection of intellectual property.
written. ‒ i support the report on the strategy for the protection and enforcement of intellectual property rights in third countries. the commission should be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 264 concerning the establishment of a european data protection supervisor. the commission should be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 290 tfeu concerning the establishment of a european union intellectual property office. the commission notes that the commission has not provided any evidence that the ip-intensive industries generate a significant share of the total economic activity in the eu (about eur 4,7 trillion per year) and about 26% of all employment in the eu (56 million jobs). however, since the entry into force of the trade-related aspects of intellectual property rights (trips), only a limited number of significant ipr agreements have been concluded. any initiative relating to external policy is linked to internal policy and therefore the fact that the eu needs to think carefully about internal improvements to its ip rules should be emphasised. the commission has also been asked to provide information on the implementation of the directive on intellectual property rights in the eu.
written. ‒ i support this report because i believe that intellectual property rights must be fully protected to provide them with the safest possible investment environment. the placing of own products with the aim of finding a way forward in the international economy needs to be facilitated, rather than further complicated by regulation, in order to protect the interests of rightholders, but also ultimately to stimulate the innovation and creativity that are today the main engines of development and economic growth. i also agree that additional efforts are needed to establish a satisfactory legislative framework in third countries that will not only protect companies entering their markets, but also ensure the development of domestic production through the establishment of trade confidence and equal rights for all.
madam president, the 2004 directive on the enforcement of intellectual property rights was an important step towards harmonising national legislation to ensure uniform and homogeneous protection of intellectual property and to help fight against counterfeiting, protect patents and copyright in the single market. in view of the high number of cases of infringement of intellectual property rights at eu level and the resulting damage, and bearing in mind the importance of innovation and new technologies for the development and competitiveness of the european union, i supported this report and the european commission's continued efforts to strengthen the protection of intellectual property through the implementation of the new action plan, but also to make it easier for entrepreneurs and innovators to apply the rules still being defined at member state level.
‒ the european commission adopted a plan to regulate intellectual property rights in july 2014. i welcome the part of the report which deals with small and medium-sized enterprises requiring less administrative burden. however, i believe that criminalising consumers is too drastic and that we need to work on raising awareness of the importance of intellectual property rights.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the european parliament resolution on the commission communication towards a new consensus on the protection of intellectual property rights: an eu action plan, because of the importance of creativity, innovation and research, and their protection, in driving economic growth. in the context of the protection of intellectual property rights, it is important to establish an effective mechanism with transparent measures in order to be able to react pre-emptively and to create new jobs. i strongly support the establishment of the commission's expert group on intellectual property protection and efforts to strengthen international cooperation between member states and the exchange of good practices. however, there is a need to raise awareness among eu citizens about what intellectual property is and what infringement of that right entails.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of this action plan because i believe that we must guarantee effective protection of intellectual property rights in the eu market, as it plays a key role in fostering innovation, creativity, competitiveness, growth, development and cultural diversity in the eu. i also supported it because it will actively, through campaigns, raise awareness among end consumers about the importance of intellectual property rights, especially younger consumers. its harmonisation regulations on the internal markets of the member states will raise consumer awareness of the importance of this topic. the commission has published a report on the application of the 'intellectual property enforcement directive' which has shown that it is not in line with the digital age in some respects, and that there is an alarming scale of ipr infringement that produces large financial losses. the rapid development of electronic commerce and online activities has changed the way in which the protection of intellectual property rights should be viewed, and i agree that this needs to be adapted urgently. the cultural and creative sectors and online platforms, where intensive use of intellectual property rights is common, account for up to 4,5% of gdp and are responsible for around 8,5 million jobs in the eu. it is clear that counterfeiting discourages growth, job creation, innovation and creativity, and support for this 'action plan' will address this problem more effectively.
written. ‒ intellectual property rights are one of the drivers of innovation and creativity and contribute in a key way to competitiveness, employment and cultural diversity, since the authenticity of a product does not always have to be identified with issues of product safety and quality and the protection of intellectual property rights plays an important role in ensuring the health and safety of consumers, while the proceeds from counterfeiting usually contribute to the black economy and organised crime. the european union is facing a high number of cases of intellectual property rights infringement, with an alarming scale and financial value. the european union therefore needs a comprehensive action plan that should have as its key objective to ensure effective protection of intellectual property rights that are evidence-based and play a key role in fostering innovation, creativity, competitiveness, growth and cultural diversity. the commission should be able to take appropriate measures to ensure that the information provided by the member states is accurate and reliable. this will particularly benefit the cultural and creative sector, where the intensive use of intellectual property rights is prevalent, already accounting for up to 4,5% of gdp. it is worth up to 8,5 million jobs in the eu and is essential for achieving cultural diversity, but it also makes a strong contribution to social and economic development. for all these reasons, i support this report, which provides useful guidance to the commission in the development and improvement of the action plan.
written. ‒ i supported the report by my colleague, mr pawel svoboda, on the communication from the european commission 'towards a new consensus on the protection of intellectual property rights: an eu action plan'. i believe that there is a need to increase awareness of the existence of intellectual property rights and to protect rights more effectively against counterfeiting and misuse, as intellectual property rights infringements have reached record levels in the context of significant technological change over the last decade. the eu has developed many programmes in which it invests substantial resources in supporting companies (smes) that carry out research and innovation. the eu is obliged to redefine the framework for the promotion of intellectual property rights and the strategy to combat infringements in the new situation, given the major changes in the nature and scale of the challenges and risks to the intellectual property of european companies. given that the eu's competitiveness is based on creativity, innovation and the development of a knowledge-based economy, it is important to ensure the continuity of the eu's policy in the area of intellectual property rights protection and to design new mechanisms and adapt existing protection tools in the light of the new technological environment. in this report, parliament reaffirms the importance of intellectual property as a key driver of growth and employment and stresses the need to combat counterfeiting in order to strengthen the industrial competitiveness of the eu and its member states at global level.
written. ‒ i support this report because i believe that intellectual property rights, including trademarks and patents, are essential for the proper functioning of the single market. products infringing intellectual property rights not only cause a direct loss of revenue for legitimate businesses and the european economy, but also lead to direct and indirect job losses, damage to reputation and increase the costs of enforcement. it is necessary to emphasise cooperation with other member states and the best and most efficient sharing of information. the establishment of an ipr expert group for member states is one way to improve protection, as the exchange of best practices will contribute to policy development and the implementation of the action plan based on data and research prepared at national level.
written. ‒ i support the communication report towards a new consensus on the protection of intellectual property rights: an eu action plan. the action plan focuses on issues such as raising awareness among consumers, employees and customers, how to ensure the integrity of supply chains, infringement of product copyright on the internet. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the new rules and to monitor the implementation of the new rules. the establishment of an ipr enforcement expert group, the development of an effective and efficient memorandum of understanding, a strategy for the protection of ipr and consumer information and the development of new business should be emphasised. the report recognises that addressing ipr infringements is effective and complex and underlines the need for the commission and the member states to combat ipr infringements by protecting the fundamental rights of all stakeholders implementing iprs.
written. ‒ i supported this commission report because i believe it highlights the need to strengthen intellectual property rights and reduce the potential for infringement of intellectual property rights in the market. i wholeheartedly support efforts to achieve fair remuneration for authors, as intellectual property has an important role to play in fostering innovation, creativity, competitiveness, growth and cultural diversity, and the need to raise consumer awareness of the need to protect these rights. i consider international cooperation in this area not only necessary but also indispensable in the fight against organised criminal groups involved in the production and distribution of counterfeit goods, which, as a result of the general digitalisation of the market, show a dangerous tendency to further expand and strengthen.
madam president, i also want to thank mrs. gardini and mr. la vija for making this report, and although it seems like the formality of signing this agreement with iceland, i would say that it is an agreement that will give us a boost on the road to paris, and it also gives us an opportunity to re-examine our positions on climate change. it's not easy to be ambitious and pragmatic at the same time. we've heard that here, but we also need to be ambitious and pragmatic to preserve our economy, our industry, and at the same time to leave this globe to our heirs to enjoy. so we have to make some sacrifices. we've heard the canarian example here. the canaries are a remarkable country with its own peculiarities, and it was certainly easier for them to use wind energy and so on than in some highly industrialized countries. but at the same time, i want to remind you that what we heard yesterday at the g7 summit, the fossil fuel phase-out, is a long-term project, and we should definitely be committed to it. i'm a big supporter of that, and i'll agree with what my colleague said. if we can't reach the goal, let's not change the goal but change the step, change the method, invent new technologies, find alternative solutions and go to paris in 2015.
madam president, this decision is a sign of the fulfilment of an important promise and a sign of the european union's commitment to remain a leader in the fight against climate change. with this decision, the european union is setting an example for other international partners to act responsibly. being accountable for one's actions is a hallmark of wise management. the level of responsibility of the different actions is many and they are intertwined: responsibility for the planet, responsibility for society and responsibility for its economy. the european parliament's recommendation demonstrates its responsibility in european society in taking such an important decision. we are pleased that we are not alone in this and that other economies in the world are moving closer to this goal with their ambitions. the effects of climate change on society and its intensification are witnessed every day. thanks to the media coverage of our planet that the development of civilization and technology has given us, we can observe more and more frequently the serious consequences of our actions and those of our ancestors. sometimes we feel the effects on our own skin. they're not comfortable and they're very expensive. that is why the development of technology and civilization must also serve the more responsible behaviour of all, of states and regions and of individuals. the fight against climate change is a collective fight, a fight for our planet, and that's why it's a priority today.
madam president, i am pleased with the report by our colleague and this debate, because, however different the tone, it is very clear. we want europe to remain a leader in the fight against climate change and i can't help feeling that we are in some ways almost alone on this planet and that we need a really strong alliance with precisely those with whom we are negotiating tomorrow on ttip or with those in asia with whom we are trading in all sorts of ways. i think europe needs to bring its ambitions to paris, but it needs to put those ambitions on the table with our partners, expecting only that those partners realize that this is a shared planet. it is not just europe's, it is the responsibility of all of us who live on this planet, and we are all responsible for its future.
madam president, mr commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, fellow citizens, if we want to be leaders in the fight against climate change and thus ensure the technological competitiveness of the european union, if we want to reduce the european union's macroeconomic deficit due to fossil fuel imports amounting to eur 1 billion per day, it is necessary to change the european union's energy policy into a sustainable energy policy that will encourage the development of new fuels to successfully replace imported fossil fuels, that will encourage the development of (incomprehensible) technologies, that will enable citizens to actively participate in the decarbonisation of society through renewable sources and energy efficiency. instead, we are being offered as energy security a policy that encourages member states, such as croatia, to explore and exploit domestic unconventional and conventional energy sources, mostly fossil fuels, which takes us back to the beginning of the 20th century instead of bringing us into the 21st century and what it is declaratively advocating: safe, clean and cheaper energy. (the speaker agreed to answer the question by raising the blue card on the basis of rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure.)
the question he raised by raising his blue card. dear mr. deputy, thank you for accepting this blue card. you mentioned croatia. you are probably aware that the project for the new coal-fired power plant plomin is and you are aware that it is intended to explore the adriatic, or rather exploit the adriatic. do you agree with me that the coal plume must not happen, and that, as far as the exploration of the adriatic, or the exploitation of the adriatic, is concerned, everything should be done to maximise the security and protection of the adriatic from future exploitation?
answer the question posed by raising the blue card. i fully agree with you that plomin c should not be built on imported coal because it does not ensure the energy security of the republic of croatia, but in fact, it continues to create dependence on energy imports. as regards exploration in the adriatic sea, there is therefore a clear view that croatia has not complied with european union directives requiring that the marine environment be managed in a good and safe manner in cooperation with its neighbours. and that is why, until an effective way of protecting the adriatic sea is secured, i am against going into oil and gas exploration in the adriatic.
madam president, the debate on energy security is multidimensional, because it concerns our internal market and the competitiveness of our economies, but it also extends to the sphere of the foreign and defence policies of the member states. i am pleased that the rapporteur recognises this and highlights the urgent need for a diversity of european energy sources and a wide range of partners at global level. i would like to point out in this connection that additional lng capacity in the mediterranean and the black sea should be high on our priority list, because their contribution to the energy independence of central and south-eastern europe would be truly enormous. therefore, i call on all stakeholders in the construction of the lng terminal on the croatian island of krk to take all necessary steps to remove the remaining obstacles so that the project, which has been in the works for too long, can be launched from a dead end.
madam president, the single european energy market is the only possible way to achieve our energy security. namely, for a number of reasons, and i'll of course only list two that are commonly known, one is our dependence on russia and the other is our competitiveness with respect to u.s. energy prices or energy prices in some other competitive markets. so i am in favour of creating a single energy market, and i am in favour of creating regional energy markets first, and i will stop here in the area of eastern europe, in the balkans, where we have enormous potential for hydro, wind and solar, but we also have lng terminal projects, not only on the island of krk in croatia, but also in albania and elsewhere. so i think it's a good way to create a single european market through regional markets and thereby make our security possible.
written. the european union imports 53% of the energy it consumes, paying more than €1 billion a day. the eu imports almost 90% of its oil, 66% of its natural gas and, to a lesser extent, 42% of its solid fuels such as coal and 90% of its nuclear fuel. i strongly advocate full respect for subsidiarity, respect for national energy choices, especially when it comes to the sufficiency of their domestic resources or in a situation where there is no possibility of diversification. however, how to react to the irresponsible behaviour of some member states and their governments, which in their strategy papers, regardless of the availability of renewable energy sources, choose energy sources that only increase dependence on imports? europe seems to lack the courage and the strength to make bold steps towards greater use of green energy and energy efficiency in the foreseeable future. yes, europe is a leader in climate policy, but making the responsible decision to reduce the greenhouse gas emissions we're talking about is painful as grinding your teeth. this decision must be accompanied by a new direction of the economy, towards a reduction in dependence on imported energy. we need to move towards a green economy, green growth and green jobs. there's money, 365 billion euros a year, just decisions are missing.
mr president, the adoption of such a package would represent a technological breakthrough in the management of the union's external borders, but i believe that our primary objective is not to make the control system modern, but above all to make it efficient, safe and cost-effective. this package meets all three of those criteria. the question arises as to how effective the envisaged entry and exit system would be if the identification of persons who have not left the european union in time were not possible until the moment of their exit. the commission should also be able to assess the impact of the proposed measures on the security of the union's external borders, in particular by assessing the impact of the proposed measures on the security of the union's external borders. i believe that the pressure on the external borders must be reduced primarily by changing migration and asylum policies, and not simply by implementing expensive technological solutions. while these policies encourage the flow of illegal migrants, smart borders won't do us much good.
mr president, i am in favour of the union's external borders being secure, which we will ensure by using, not only new technologies, but also by strengthening cooperation with third countries, so that the increase in human trafficking, smuggling and deaths in the mediterranean is drastically reduced, if not eliminated. i will support this smart border package, because today, 25 years after the fall of the berlin wall, we do not need a closed europe, but an open one with well-controlled borders. of course, there are doubts about the new technologies, about digitalization, but at the same time we have to believe in it. i have another problem to point out here, and that is the results of the fifth report on the post-liberalisation visa regime for the western balkans countries, which is being carried out by the european commission, which states that the european union does not exclude the possibility of re-introducing visas for the citizens of bosnia and herzegovina, macedonia, albania, montenegro and serbia, all because of the large increase in the number of citizens of these countries in the european union countries. i think we have to take into account that these are countries that want to become part of the european family, and the additional controls can only further undermine confidence in the union. so i am in favour of digitisation, i am in favour of intelligent border control, but at the same time that europe, 25 years after the fall of the berlin wall, is controlled, but at the same time open. it is not easy, but it is up to the commission to do an in-depth analysis and tell us all the aspects, both economic and legal, and in particular the compatibility with the regulations in the member states. i think the member states must be involved in this project.
mr president, of course the european union needs to set smart borders and of course we need to take advantage of new technology and all that new technology allows us to have a safer life in the european union and it is not disputed that we need to have smart borders because of the problems of terrorism, migrants, all that we have been experiencing in recent months and years. however, i insist on a flexible system, i insist on a system that will protect personal data, i insist on a system that will not compromise the tourism economy of the european union as today's largest tourism destination in the world. and i insist that you do a very good cost-benefit analysis, because the cost that is expected of this system is extraordinarily high. so i expect the commission to really give the right answer when we talk about this smart border project.
mr president, mr commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, is this not strange to you? doesn't that seem almost absurd to you, perhaps i could even say bizarre? so what message are we sending tonight to our fellow citizens, what message are we sending tonight to taxpayers, what message are we sending to the economy and to all the other institutions that know about olaf and that believe in the credibility of both olaf and the european union? what message are we sending today when we talk about something that is absolutely clear and that has suffered, unfortunately, a serious debacle in recent years. that is why i am also very clear in my demands that the european public prosecutor's office should finally be established, because i believe that it is, if nothing else, a shortcut to ensuring that justice and the rule of law are respected in the european union.
written. ‒ the kyoto protocol and the agreement agreed in doha in 2012 are among the most important global agreements and therefore the european parliament must give its clear and unwavering support to this report. the doha amendment commits signatory countries to reduce their average annual greenhouse gas emissions by 80 percent from 1990 levels by 2013-2020. i support this report because its adoption will send a strong signal that the eu is still a world leader in environmental protection and the fight against climate change.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the draft legislative resolution of the european parliament on the draft council decision on the conclusion of the doha amendment to the kyoto protocol to the united nations framework convention on climate change and the joint fulfilment of the obligations arising therefrom, as this further strengthens the european union's global role in international environmental obligations. however, it also requires a strong alliance and partnership involving other countries and powers with high levels of pollution, as it is clear that the european union does not bear all the responsibility, but rather shares it. i support the fact that the amendment further strengthens the commitment to climate change and that it establishes a binding international agreement that is comprehensive and sustainable.
written. ‒ mep elisabetta gardini, on behalf of the envi committee, recommended the adoption of amendments to the kyoto protocol signed in 1997 with the aim of reducing greenhouse gas emissions. i support the recommendation that the doha amendment protocol be ratified as soon as possible to send a strong message in the fight against climate change ahead of the 21st un climate change conference later this year in paris. the doha amendments propose a joint commitment to reduce emissions in the second commitment period of the protocol by 2020 by 20% compared to 1990 levels, which is also one of the five targets under the europe 2020 strategy. after 2020, a protocol will come into force that will be agreed at the un conference in paris. the achievement of the greenhouse gas emission reduction target is a major challenge for all economic sectors that need to contribute to its achievement and member states should submit their proposals for the period up to 2020.
written. ‒ i supported this recommendation, in which the european parliament, by virtue of its powers, shows responsibility to its citizens and the international community and expresses its strong desire that europe continue to be a leader in the fight against climate change. the eu and its member states have agreed to adopt by the end of 2015 the protocol, a second legal instrument with legal force and applicable to all parties under the convention, which should enter into force and apply from 2020. the council agreed to propose a joint quantified emission reduction commitment of 20% for the second commitment period of the kyoto protocol for the union and its member states. the union and its member states reached an agreement at the doha climate change conference on their commitment to quantified emission reductions limiting their average annual greenhouse gas emissions in the second commitment period to 80% of the sum of the base year emissions. the union and its member states have also offered to achieve reductions of 30% by 2020 compared to 1990 levels as part of a global and comprehensive agreement for the period beyond 2012 provided that other developed countries commit to comparable emission reductions and that developing countries contribute appropriately, in accordance with their responsibilities and respective capabilities.
written. ‒ in december 2012, at the doha climate change conference, the 192 parties to the kyoto protocol to the united nations framework convention on climate change adopted an amendment to the kyoto protocol, which established a second commitment period for the agreement beginning on 1 january 2013 and ending on 31 december 2020. the signatories have committed to reducing emissions. the doha amendment commits croatia, together with the other member states of the european union, to limit its average annual greenhouse gas emissions to 80% of its emissions for the period 2013-2020. i therefore support the recommendation for a draft council decision on the conclusion, on behalf of the eu, of the doha amendment to the kyoto protocol to the united nations framework convention on climate change and the joint fulfilment of the commitments arising therefrom, as i believe that this will send a strong message at international level that the european union, its member states and partners are making every effort to address global climate change.
written. ‒ i support the conclusion of the doha amendments to the kyoto protocol which establish mitigation obligations for the second target period of the kyoto protocol for the countries listed in the protocol. the commission notes that the amendments to the basic regulation are not intended to change the scope of the existing exemption. they relate to the inclusion of a new gas, nitrogen trifluoride (nf3), whose emissions are low but increasing. the republic of croatia has expressed its intention to fulfil its commitments in the second commitment period of the kyoto protocol. croatia, together with the other member states of the union, has committed to limit its average annual greenhouse gas emissions in the period from 2013 to 2020 to 80% of its emissions. i believe that the doha amendments and the kyoto protocol supplement on the european union's shared fulfilment of commitments will send a strong signal about the efforts and leadership of the european union and its member states in the field of climate change at the international level.
written. ‒ i support this recommendation on the draft council decision on the conclusion, on behalf of the european union, of the doha amendments to the kyoto protocol to the united nations framework convention on climate change and the joint fulfilment of the obligations arising therefrom, because i believe that member states should continue to reduce their emissions by 2020 and that the european union should lead by example.
written. ‒ i support the recommendation on the draft council decision on the conclusion, on behalf of the european union, of the amendment to the kyoto protocol to the united nations framework convention on climate change and on the joint fulfilment of the obligations arising therefrom. the kyoto protocol to the united nations framework convention on climate change was signed in 1997. the european union and its member states are jointly responsible under the kyoto protocol, in accordance with the mechanism for meeting the commitment to reduce greenhouse gas emissions in the first period (2008-2012) by 8% below 1990 levels. as of 9 march 2012, the council proposed a joint quantified emission reduction commitment of 20% below 1990 levels. the draft council decision provides the basis for the conclusion of the doha amendment by the european union and sets out the conditions for the joint fulfilment of commitments by the eu, its member states and iceland. this requires member states to take the necessary steps to complete their domestic ratification processes by the third quarter of 2015 at the latest. the rapporteur considers that the ratification of the decision to conclude the doha amendment to the kyoto protocol and the joint fulfilment of commitments by the european union can send a strong signal about the efforts and leadership of the european union and its member states in the field of climate change at international level.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the conclusion of the amendment to the kyoto protocol from doha, which was signed with the aim of reducing greenhouse gas emissions. in march 2013, the council proposed a commitment to reduce greenhouse gas emissions by 20% for the second commitment period of the kyoto protocol, from 1 january 2013 to the end of 2020, compared to the previous period from 2008 to 2010. i support the provision of the protocol requiring parties to jointly agree and report on the level of emissions of gases in order to ensure transparency and efficiency of the parties in their obligations, with each country being individually responsible for its emissions and allocated amount. in this context, i believe that the commission should continue to work with member states and third countries to ensure that they adopt and implement the kyoto protocol regulations as effectively as possible, thereby contributing to the global efforts to address climate change.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the draft legislative resolution of the european parliament on the draft council decision on the conclusion of the agreement between the eu and its member states and iceland on the participation of iceland in the joint fulfilment of the commitments of the european union, its member states and iceland in the second commitment period of the kyoto protocol to the united nations framework convention on climate change, as it sends a strong message about the coordinated efforts of the european union on climate change at international level. the commission has also received comments from the icelandic authorities, which have not provided any further information. a multilateral approach to tackling climate change, based on clear rules, can certainly contribute to effective and sustainable progress in protecting international interests.
written. ‒ i support the recommendation of mep la vie which welcomes the conclusion of an agreement between the european union and iceland on the joint fulfilment of the kyoto protocol commitments for a second commitment period. the targets for that period were agreed in 2012 and commit to a 20% reduction in greenhouse gas emissions by 2020 compared to 1990. the signing of this agreement sends a strong message of the european union's commitment to achieving its greenhouse gas emission reduction targets at international level. the agreement aims to establish the conditions governing iceland's participation in the joint fulfilment of the european union's obligations and to allow for effective participation. he's calling for a quick signing of the agreement. the convention will decide on a strategy for the period after 2020 in paris at the end of the year, but before that the doha amendments need to be adopted and the plans of the member states and iceland to achieve the 2020 targets need to be prepared.
written. ‒ i welcome the recommendation for a decision on the conclusion, on behalf of the european union, of the agreement between the european union and its member states, of the one part, and iceland, of the other part, on iceland's participation in the joint fulfilment of the obligations of the european union, its member states and iceland in the second commitment period of the kyoto protocol to the united nations framework convention on climate change. the accession of iceland to this agreement in the framework of the joint fulfilment of commitments with the european union demonstrates the correctness of the union's climate policy and certainly welcomes iceland's position on climate protection, which is similar to that of croatia before its accession to the eu. solving a common problem together is the right, responsible and good way.
written. ‒ i support the recommendation for a draft council decision on the conclusion, on behalf of the european union, of the agreement between the european union and its member states, of the one part, and iceland, of the other part, on iceland's participation in the joint fulfilment of the obligations of the european union, its member states and iceland in the second commitment period of the kyoto protocol to the united nations framework convention on climate change, as i consider that this agreement sends a strong signal for concerted european action to combat climate change at international level.
written. ‒ i support this recommendation on the draft council decision on the conclusion of the agreement between the european union and iceland on the participation of iceland in the joint fulfilment of the obligations of the european union, its member states and iceland in the second commitment period of the kyoto protocol, together with the united nations framework convention on climate change, because i believe that in order to reduce environmental pollution, which can have major consequences for life all over the world, it is essential that as many countries as possible adhere to the provisions of the kyoto protocol.
written. ‒ i support the recommendation on the draft council decision on the conclusion, on behalf of the european union, of the agreement between the european union and its member states, of the one part, and iceland, of the other part, on iceland's participation in the joint fulfilment of the obligations of the european union, its member states and iceland in the second commitment period of the kyoto protocol to the united nations framework convention on climate change. the rapporteur welcomes the proposal for a council decision which is the basis for the conclusion of the agreement between the european union and its member states, of the one part, and iceland, of the other part. this is to highlight some aspects of the proposal for a council decision. iceland does not participate in emissions trading within the eu greenhouse gas emissions trading system. the rights and obligations applicable to member states in the joint fulfilment of obligations should be applicable to iceland through eu legislation. the accession negotiations between iceland and the eu therefore do not affect the joint fulfilment of the commitments undertaken as mutually agreed by the european union and iceland for the second commitment period of the kyoto protocol.
written. ‒ the doha amendment establishes a second period to enable the contracting parties, the european union and the member states on the one hand, and iceland on the other, to achieve their greenhouse gas emission reduction targets. countries have committed to reduce their average greenhouse gas emissions by up to 80% of their emissions on an annual basis. the union's contribution to the global warming effort is estimated at eur 5 billion. i believe that iceland, as a non-eu country, is a good indicator that joint international action can contribute to the global effort to address the increasingly prevalent climate change, while also sending a strong message about coordinated european efforts. as a representative of a country where the energy sector faces challenges in terms of energy management and the use of renewable energy sources, i believe that activities should primarily focus on increasing energy efficiency, developing the energy market and ultimately regulating energy prices that will be acceptable to all citizens. by implementing such measures, we will contribute to the achievement of long-term objectives, including the protection of the environment, croatia's invaluable resource, and i have therefore supported this report.
written. ‒ i support this recommendation because it will pave the way for croatia to complete its accession to the 2000 convention on mutual legal assistance in criminal matters between the member states of the european union and its protocols (mla convention). this council decision will make the necessary adjustments to the mla convention, is technical in nature and not partly contested, and has the support of all political groups in the european parliament.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the draft legislative resolution of the european parliament on the recommendation for a council decision on the accession of croatia to the convention on mutual legal assistance in criminal matters between the member states of the european union and its protocol of 16 october 2001 as this convention promotes judicial cooperation between member states in criminal matters and insists that mutual legal assistance be made available as quickly and effectively as possible. therefore, it is important for croatia to accede to the convention in order to fulfil its obligations and to align itself with other conventions and protocols concluded by member states, but also to improve its internal system in this area.
‒ the report by mep brigit sippel supports the commission's recommendation that the republic of croatia accede to the convention on mutual assistance in criminal matters between the member states of the european union and implement the necessary adjustments for accession. the convention was adopted by the council of ministers of the european union on 29 may 2000. the convention aims to improve judicial cooperation between member states and to encourage cooperation between judicial, police and customs authorities within the union, while respecting human rights and the protection of personal freedoms. it is in the interest of all member states to resolve as quickly as possible certain cases that are most often related to organised crime - trafficking in human beings, fraud, arms smuggling and drug abuse. i support the report because our accession to the convention on mutual assistance in criminal matters between the member states of the european union will ensure more effective cooperation with other member states and faster resolution of criminal cases.
written. ‒ i have supported the report by which the european parliament, on the recommendation of the european commission, gives the council its consent to fix the date of entry into force of croatia's accession to the convention on mutual assistance in criminal matters between the member states of the european union and its protocol of 16 october 2001. the convention is of particular importance for croatia as it allows for effective cooperation between the judicial authorities of the member states of the european union, which has proved to be very important for croatia. the fight against corruption and the prosecution of serious crimes require cooperation across member states' borders and a well-ordered and transparent system of judicial cooperation within the eu. i consider this to be the right way of cooperation within the european union which guarantees the rule of law. such rule of law enforcement must also exist in the countries acceding to the european union and harmonising legislation in the field of justice. therefore, i once again draw attention to the case of the republic of serbia, which grossly violates international law and the rule of law in applying the law on the organization and competence of the state bodies of serbia in war crimes proceedings, whose articles 2 and 3 must be removed if the republic of serbia wants to continue its european path.
written. ‒ i support the report by ms sippel on the recommendation for a council decision on the accession of croatia to the convention of 29 may 2000 adopted by the council in accordance with article 34 of the treaty on european union on mutual legal assistance in criminal matters between the member states of the european union and its protocol of 16 october 2001. this convention seeks to improve judicial cooperation in criminal matters between the member states of the union, since it is in the common interest of the member states to ensure that mutual legal assistance is provided between member states in a rapid and effective manner in accordance with the fundamental principles of their national law and in conformity with the individual rights and principles of the european convention for the protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms. the act of accession of croatia to the european union makes it clear that it is not necessary to negotiate and conclude specific accession protocols which would then have to be ratified by all 28 member states, but that the council will decide on the date on which the provisions of the convention will become applicable to croatia and will adjust them to the accession of the 28 member states. given the complexity of the acquis of the european union, coordination and cooperation between member states, in particular in the fields of civil liberties, justice and home affairs, is a strategic issue of general interest to all its citizens.
written. ‒ i support the accession of the republic of croatia to the convention on mutual legal assistance in criminal matters, because the eu borders are closed to individuals, but not to authorities such as the police, prosecution authorities and courts. for these reasons, i agree that the accession will contribute to the direct transmission of requests for mutual assistance between the judicial authorities of the member states, allow a better exchange of information between the member states while respecting the procedures of the requesting state. the purpose of this convention is to give effect to the principle of mutual recognition of judgments on the freezing of property and of evidence for the purposes of criminal proceedings between member states. the enforcement of fines in a member state other than that in which the fine was imposed has also been facilitated. the establishment of joint investigation teams between two or more countries involved in the investigation will also help in the fight against criminal activities.
written. ‒ i support this report on the recommendation for a council decision on the accession of croatia to the convention of 29 may 2000 drawn up by the council in accordance with article 34 of the treaty on european union on mutual legal assistance in criminal matters between the member states of the european union and its protocol of 16 october 2001, as i consider that the better functioning of the criminal matters system and all related activities in croatia requires the cooperation of croatia and the other member states of the european union.
written. ‒ i support the draft of this report given that crime has become a very complex international phenomenon and that it is necessary to develop a common european criminal justice area based on mutual trust and support between national police authorities. for croatia, access to the convention is important because of the relatively high crime and corruption rates in the country, especially in the business world with an emphasis on the private sector. the present report is of a technical nature with the purpose of determining the date of accession of the republic of croatia to this convention, for which the existing provision was not sufficiently clear. the convention will enter into force on the first day of the first month following the date of adoption of the decision, in accordance with article 1 of this recommendation. according to article 3, the decision enters into force on the 20th day following its publication in the official journal of the european union. these provisions give confusing timelines for the implementation of the convention. official publication is an essential condition of the procedure as a whole, since without publication no act is recognised as valid by the court. i therefore agree that the decision should first be adopted and published and should also contain the date on which the convention should enter into force.
written. ‒ the commission recommendation concerns the amendment of the council decision on the accession of croatia to the convention of 29 may 2000 on mutual legal assistance in criminal matters between the member states of the union and its protocol of 16 october 2001. the purpose of this recommendation is to implement adaptations, including the adoption of the convention in the croatian language, in order to ensure the most effective cooperation in the international fight against crime as well as the provision of criminal justice assistance. in the current of globalisation, where modern forms of serious crime are entering the door, it is important to react decisively at the earliest stage of the offence. i consider that this recommendation fully respects the principle of subsidiarity and justifiably adds value to the segment of international criminal law enforcement, which the member states of the union could not achieve sufficiently or nearly as effectively on their own. serious crime of an organised and transnational nature requires responses that are more effective and in which member states do not limit their legislation and prosecution to ensuring their national security alone, but, through cooperation, successfully contribute to the security of other states and the global community. the republic of croatia has not yet ratified the convention on the law of the sea, which entered into force on 1 july 2015, and therefore does not have the right to participate in the convention.
written. ‒ i support this recommendation, as it will pave the way for the completion of croatia's accession to the 1997 convention on the fight against corruption involving officials of the european communities or officials of member states of the european union (pif convention). this decision will make the necessary adjustments to the pif convention, and is a technical proposal that is not in any way contested and has the support of all political groups in the european parliament.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the draft legislative resolution of the european parliament on the recommendation for a council decision on the accession of croatia to the convention on the fight against corruption involving officials of the european communities or officials of eu member states, given the need to ensure the necessary adjustments in order for croatia to accede to that convention in accordance with its membership of the european union and the succession of legal acts providing for this. the convention also provides for the establishment of a european anti-corruption centre (ecac) to combat corruption in the european union. by this convention, as well as by other conventions and protocols and through the simplified system, croatia continues to fulfil the obligations assumed by the 2011 accession treaty.
‒ the report by mep filiz hyusmenova supports the commission's proposal for the accession of the republic of croatia to the convention on the fight against corruption involving officials of the european communities or officials of member states of the european union and the necessary adjustments to be made for accession. the convention was adopted with the aim of encouraging a common fight against passive and active corruption involving national or union officials, which causes financial damage. the rules of cooperation for the purpose of aligning the criminal law of the member states with the convention are laid down. corruption is a barrier to economic and social progress. according to the corruption perceptions index, croatia was ranked 61 out of 175 in 2014. the commission has also provided information on the implementation of the measures provided for in article 108 (3) of the treaty on the functioning of the european union. i support croatia's accession to the convention, because by properly implementing the adjustment we will strengthen the legislative framework and the fight against corruption. croatia should promote the right values and create a business environment free of corruption in order to ensure economic development and investment.
written. ‒ i supported the report and welcome the decision of the european parliament to give its consent to the council, on the recommendation of the european commission, on the date of entry into force of croatia's accession to the convention on the fight against corruption involving officials of the european communities or officials of member states of the european union. article 3 (4) of the act of accession provides for the accession of croatia to the conventions and protocols concluded between the member states, listed in annex i to the act of accession, including the convention on the fight against corruption involving officials of the european communities or officials of member states of the european union. croatia has transposed into national legislation all the legislative obligations towards the european union, including those provided for by the convention, but i consider its application and consistent implementation to be extremely important. the fight against corruption must be a strong priority, both for the european union and for the member states, in the performance of public service, at official level and in decision-making positions. the commission has also taken into account the fact that the european parliament has not yet adopted a decision on the application of the principle of proportionality.
written. ‒ i support the report by mrs hyusmenova on the recommendation for a council decision on the accession of croatia to the convention of 26 may 1997 drawn up on the basis of article k.3 (2) (c) of the treaty on european union on the fight against corruption involving officials of the european communities or officials of member states of the european union. the croatian parliament is currently in the process of adopting the action plan to combat corruption and the strategy to combat corruption for the period 2015-2020. the croatian citizens are also invited to submit their comments on the action plan by 21 june. these strategic documents are a continuation of the national efforts since 2002 with the entry into force of the first in a series of national anti-corruption programmes. according to the 2014 transparency international report, the republic of croatia is ranked 61st out of 175 countries surveyed in the corruption perceptions index. in view of the fact that croatia has been a full member of the union since july 2013 and its index (48) is below the union average (66), accession to this convention will contribute to croatia's efforts to combat corruption.
written. ‒ i supported the accession of the republic of croatia to the convention on the fight against corruption, which was signed between eu member states back in 1997 and entered into force in 2005. article 3 (4) of the act of accession provides for the accession of croatia to the conventions and protocols concluded between the member states, as well as to the convention on the fight against corruption involving officials of the european communities or officials of member states of the european union. i consider that improving judicial cooperation in the fight against corruption is in the common interest of all member states of the union. corruption is a socially unacceptable phenomenon that directly threatens human rights, destroys social capital and threatens the stability and economic progress of the state. the fight against corruption is a prerequisite for the development of a transparent and democratic society. i support the strengthening of the legal infrastructure in the fight against corruption and i believe that the accession of the republic of croatia to the convention will contribute to the more effective implementation of anti-corruption measures.
written. ‒ by the act of accession, the republic of croatia introduced a simplified system for acceding to the conventions and protocols. pursuant to article 3 of the act of accession, the council is to decide on the date of entry into force of the convention in order to ensure that any necessary adjustments can be made. the requirement of publication is an essential procedural presumption without which a particular act is deemed not to exist. the commission's recommendation for a council decision on that convention is to align the provisions relating to the date of entry into force of the convention in accordance with article 3 of the act of accession. on the basis of the foregoing, i request this report.
written. ‒ i support the draft report on the proposal for a council decision on the accession of croatia to the convention of 26 may 1997 drawn up on the basis of article k.3 (2) (c) of the treaty on european union on the fight against corruption involving officials of the european communities or officials of member states of the european union. the treaty of accession of the republic of croatia introduced a simplified system for the accession of croatia to the conventions and protocols concluded by the member states. the council shall decide on the date of entry into force of this convention for the republic of croatia. the council shall also, on a proposal from the commission, decide, after consulting the european parliament, to adopt conventions in the croatian language.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on croatia's accession to the convention on the fight against corruption involving officials of the member states of the union. the commission notes that the commission has not provided any evidence that the state aid granted to the beneficiaries of the aid is compatible with the internal market. i believe that in violation of these principles and in pursuit of self-interest at the expense of the state, there should be rigorous penalties that clearly condemn the motives for committing corrupt acts. as a new member state, croatia has demonstrated by its example that it is able to use legal instruments to prosecute criminal offences and has shown that it is ready for operational action in the area of security and justice. i believe that member states must continue to pursue judicial cooperation even more closely in order to be able to react in a timely manner to corrupt elements, all with the aim of sending a clear message of condemnation of corrupt and criminal activities. i therefore call for further strengthening of the precautionary measures and for more rigorous rules in sanctioning these practices.
written. ‒ the eu and russia are linked through many sectors, from energy to tourism. however, the current relationship is threatened by the weakening of democratic principles in russia and the lack of respect for international standards. i therefore regret that significant obstacles have been created to the further development of the partnership and i hope that the european parliament's document will be an impetus for change in russia.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the european parliament resolution on the state of eu-russia relations, as i agree that the state of affairs in russia is in many respects different from the values that are important to us, that we stand for and that the european union is founded on. among other things, following the events in ukraine and the annexation of crimea, which is contrary to international law, the eu and russia are definitely on opposite sides. it is precisely the question of the developments in ukraine that i see as crucial to the future of possibly better eu-russia relations, which i believe are needed by both sides. in this respect, it is important to consider how the building of democratic institutions and respect for democratic values in ukraine will develop further. what i have said many times is that ukraine has the opportunity to positively influence the whole situation by decentralizing and respecting the rights of minorities first and foremost.
written. ‒ russia is one of the world's leading powers and it is understandable that the european union is seeking a strategic partnership with it in economic and energy terms, but also to tackle global challenges. however, this cannot happen while russia is violating international agreements. in ukraine, armed conflict continues, the minsk agreements have not been respected, the number of victims has exceeded 6 200. president vladimir putin has attributed the illegal annexation of crimea to his own merits. ukraine is not the only country in the region where russia is using hybrid warfare. although these countries are not members of the european union, they are in our neighbourhood and we are concerned that conflicts are destabilising them, blocking their development and undermining fundamental human freedoms. i support the report of the representative of landsbergis which calls on russia to respect international law and agreements, democratic principles and fundamental values. the eu has also been active in the fight against terrorism and the fight against organised crime. the european union must create a lasting foreign and security policy and show a strong stance of condemnation towards russia.
the russian federation has committed serious violations of international law, including the un charter, the paris charter, the helsinki final act, the budapest memorandum of 1994. the practice of human rights violations along with widespread corruption is commonplace in this space. the russian leadership uses controlled state and other domestic media to win public support for its actions, as well as to undermine any opposition. russia's actions are internationally unacceptable and the eu must respond to instability in the region. ukraine must secure its independence and peace for its citizens and it must be released from the tight embrace of the russian government. the eu and its member states must also work to reduce their energy dependence on russian energy. i also believe that at this point we need to try to improve rather than destroy the very bad relations between the eu and russia. there needs to be a dialogue and a clear expression of the eu's position that the other side needs to hear. the eu's actions should be measured and should show russia the right way. the commission shall be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 26 to supplement this regulation by laying down detailed rules for the application of this regulation. that is why i do not support the actions of the president of the european parliament, martin schulz, and his response to the russian blacklist, which i consider unfair. retaliating in kind is not going to bring us closer or make a difference.
written. ‒ i support the report, as i believe that eu-russia relations must be based on dialogue and respect for international law, since the rule of law is one of the eu's founding principles, which implies not only respect for democracy and human rights, but also respect for international law and the enforcement of the law, and judging by all events and outcomes, russia does not meet those conditions, as its authorities do not support the rule of law and respect fundamental rights. also the level of political rights, but also civil and media freedoms has been decreasing in recent years. russia is now openly acting as a rival to the international democratic community, primarily through its efforts to forcibly cross borders within europe, and through its openly voiced hatred directed against neighboring nations and minorities, which is being carried out in ways that are in direct violation of the provisions of the international community. eu-russia cooperation is necessary and mutually beneficial, but the eu will not depart from its principles and values, in particular those relating to respect for human rights and freedoms, and it is essential that russia fulfils its obligations under the minsk agreements and ceases destabilising military and security activities on the borders of eu member states for the potential continuation of cooperation.
written. ‒ i support the report as the eu has for years sought to build a mutually beneficial strategic partnership with russia and remains open to such a relationship and dialogue with a view to renewing cooperation with russia, provided that the eu-russia relationship is based on respect for international law and dialogue in the future and that russia respects the territorial integrity and sovereignty of ukraine, including crimea. russia must fully implement the minsk agreements and cease destabilising military and security activities on the borders of eu member states. the eu cannot plan a 'return to the old way' and is forced to thoroughly reconsider its relations with russia. to give the eu greater bargaining power, a strong european energy union needs to be created quickly to reduce the dependence of individual member states on external energy suppliers, in particular russia. furthermore, deepening the integration of the eu and the coherence between its internal and external policies is crucial for a more coherent, effective and successful eu foreign and security policy. the parties shall cooperate in the implementation of the convention on the rights of persons with disabilities, which was adopted in the framework of the united nations general assembly in new york on 16 november 2015.
written. ‒ i supported the report on the state of eu-russia relations as it expresses a critical attitude towards the dangerous and unacceptable current russian actions on the international scene, as well as the violation of human rights and the rule of law in russia itself. i particularly welcome the fact that the report stresses that the european union cannot continue its normal cooperation with russia until it has implemented the minsk peace agreement aimed at ending the conflict in ukraine. if russia fulfils these conditions, to which it has committed itself, a constructive relationship between the eu and russia is desirable and possible, but until then russia should no longer be considered a strategic partner of the eu. i am particularly pleased that the amendments of the european conservatives and reformists have been incorporated into the report, in particular those relating to the call for the return of the wreckage and black boxes of the polish government aircraft that crashed near smolensk in 2010. i also support the call for the member states of the union to maintain a united position vis-à-vis russia.
written. ‒ this own-initiative report by parliament is essentially a response to the european commission's communication on energy security in the eu, but it also addresses wider energy-related issues. the main message that the rapporteur wants to send is that it is better to 'spend at home' the money that eu member states are now giving to import energy from abroad, which i fully support. the best way to achieve energy security in europe is to invest in renewable energy, innovation and 'domestic' energy production that will create new jobs.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the european parliament's motion for a resolution on a european energy security strategy because of the importance of a single energy policy and a single european market for the european union's energy system to be sustainable and competitive on a global scale. in this context, it is necessary to reduce energy dependency, develop new energy technologies, strengthen the internal energy market and diversify external energy sources and routes. the commission should also be able to assess the impact of the measures on the energy market and the energy supply of the member states. i also agree with the need to implement strategic energy infrastructure projects to make the energy market more sensitive and support greater coordination of different positions to contribute to a clearer and stronger eu energy position.
written. ‒ the prosperity and security of the european union depend on a stable energy supply. it is well known that every member state is concerned about energy security. in the winters of 2006 and 2009, temporary disruptions in energy supply highlighted the vulnerability but also the need for a common european energy policy. indicators point to a growing global demand for energy, which is expected to increase by 27 percent by 2030. the commission should also be able to use the information provided by the member states to assess the impact of the measures taken on the environment and the environment in the union. new technologies, alternative energy sources and unconventional fuels will play an important role in diversifying energy sources in order to reduce dependence on foreign suppliers and diversify energy supply. this is one of the key proposals put forward by the european commission in its communication on the energy union. given that an amendment was adopted calling on member states to ban the exploration for or extraction of unconventional fuels, stressing that they have limited potential, i did not support this report which prolongs the dependence on fossil fuels and the achievement of the targets.
written. ‒ the strategy is an integral part of the 2030 framework for climate and energy policy and follows the objectives of the eu's competitiveness and industrial policy to a large extent. the commission shall, by means of implementing acts, lay down the rules on the basis of which the commission may adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 264 concerning the assessment of the effects of the measures referred to in paragraph 1 on the energy performance of buildings. the commission shall be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 26 to supplement this regulation by laying down detailed rules for the application of this regulation. my view is that europe should strive for energy independence, and that means using its own resources in the best possible way. dependence on imported energy, neglect of renewable energy sources and keeping nuclear energy as an important energy source is unacceptable to me. the amendment calling on member states and the eu institutions to phase out subsidies and other public funding for the construction, operation and life extension of new and existing nuclear plants was not adopted, so i voted against this energy security strategy proposal.
written. ‒ the european union needs a sound and efficient use of energy and a stable, affordable and sustainable energy supply to achieve energy security, because energy security means above all political independence. at present, the eu still imports 53% of its total energy for consumption, i.e. 85% oil, 67% gas, 41% solid fuels and around 95% uranium. in order to achieve energy security, it is necessary to reduce those figures and to shift towards renewable energy sources. renewable energy should be central to supporting the eu's energy and climate policy, but a community approach and cooperation between member states are needed to make it more cost-effective to achieve renewable energy targets. the project of the lng terminal in croatia is listed in the european energy security strategy. the strategy represents a strong vision that promotes resilience to short-term energy supply disruptions and reduces dependency on other energy sources, existing energy suppliers and existing energy pathways in the long term. i consider it a challenging project, but one that needs to be managed wisely.
written. ‒ i support this report because i believe that, in view of possible unforeseen external influences such as the crisis in ukraine, european energy security should be strengthened. the commission should be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 290 tfeu concerning the definition of the concept of 'originating products' and the definition of the concept of 'originating products' and the definition of the concept of 'originating products' in accordance with article 4 of regulation (eu) no 1308/2013. it is also necessary to have a single energy market to reduce energy prices and develop better technologies for energy production and consumption so as not to rely too heavily on obsolete technologies. the new technologies also increase the competitiveness of the european union's energy market vis-à-vis external markets.
written. ‒ the european union now imports 53% of its total energy consumption, with a large share of energy coming from geopolitically unstable areas. moreover, several member states still rely on a single external source of supply, which poses a major risk to the economic objectives, economic growth and prosperity of the european union. in addition, high energy costs in the eu are driving some industries out of business, reducing employment and damaging the eu economy. the report focuses on long-term strategic objectives and includes concrete actions towards moderate energy consumption, increasing indigenous energy production and developing energy technologies. the report is structured in such a way that it does not cover all the important aspects of the european energy community in terms of energy security with a clear distinction between its internal and external dimensions, which is why i did not support this report. the aim of this report is to set out the guidelines by which we must ensure our energy security in the short and long term. since the key votes proposed by the epp club were not adopted, i did not support this report.
written. ‒ the majority of the text in this report focuses on renewable energy sources and improving energy efficiency. in particular, while i support in principle the increase in the availability of renewable energy and the improvement of energy efficiency, i consider that this report over-emphasises these issues and therefore fails to highlight the key provisions of the security challenges needed to complete the internal energy market and end the european union's dependence on unreliable energy suppliers from third countries. the commission has also taken note of the fact that the commission has not yet adopted a proposal for a regulation on the energy performance of buildings, which is not yet in force. that is why i abstained.
written. ‒ i support this question because it is consistent with the principle that both institutions should be heard in cases like this, and does not take a one-sided approach. the commission has also requested the european parliament and the council to provide the necessary information to enable the european parliament and the council to assess the progress of the implementation of the mandate of the sc.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of an oral question on the 2014 annual report of the olaf supervisory committee, as it is clear that such an important eu institution is facing serious internal problems. it is unacceptable that such an important institution has insufficiently defined procedures for its action. the commission should be able to request the european parliament and the council to provide the necessary information to enable it to take decisions on the basis of the information provided by the european parliament and the council. the commission has also been asked to provide a report on the implementation of the new rules on the protection of personal data, in particular the new rules on the protection of personal data and the new rules on the protection of personal data. in this connection, i would like to point out that i am in favour of the introduction of the european public prosecutor's office.
‒ the mission of the european anti-fraud office (olaf) is to detect, investigate and eliminate misuse of eu funds. the report submitted for 2014 shows concrete results in preventing fraud to ensure that eu taxpayers' money is spent solely for its intended purpose. in 2014, olaf received the highest number of fraud reports since its inception in 1999. the 1417 items in particular represent an increase in trust from citizens, institutions and other partners. the report submitted indicates that there are problems with the independence of the supervisory board, the compliance of olaf with the olaf regulation and the methods of action between olaf and its supervisory board. the report therefore leaves doubts as to the effectiveness of olaf in protecting the financial interests of the union. it is important to remove these doubts as soon as possible, as this resolution indicates, and i therefore supported it.
written. ‒ the olaf monitoring committee informed us that there is no transparent overview of olaf's work and that the powers and role of the nco are undefined. the commission has also provided information on the number of cases of fraud and corruption in the union, the number of cases of irregularities and the number of cases of irregularities. the supervisory board pointed out that by a decision of its director-general olaf, it had opened 423 cases on the same day, which was contrary to the legal conditions for opening an olaf investigation, and highlighted a whole range of other procedural irregularities. i therefore support the efforts of the no to seek greater powers and full access to all olaf files. on the other hand, olaf presented its record successes in its communication related to the 2014 annual report, and i certainly commend it. in addition, olaf is increasingly promoting global action against fraud and corruption, which often transcend national borders, which i also consider important. it is clear from all this that there is no cooperation between the heads of olaf and the supervisory board. i therefore support the efforts of the european commission to resolve the differences between olaf and the supervisory board, and i believe that it is necessary to clearly redefine the powers, responsibilities and obligations of olaf and the supervisory board, and to ensure the supervision and application of the adopted processes, in order to protect and make transparent the use of eu citizens' money.
‒ the european anti-fraud office (olaf) has the responsibility of protecting the financial interests of the union by investigating fraud, corruption and any other illegal activities which lead to large amounts of money being withheld from the budget of the european union, and its supervisory board was established to strengthen and guarantee the independence of olaf by regularly monitoring the implementation of its investigative task. the european parliament also called on the commission to take action to ensure that the european union's financial instruments are used effectively and in a way that is consistent with the objectives of the union's financial instruments. given that corruption remains one of the biggest challenges facing the eu, damaging public finances and undermining citizens' trust in democratic processes, i believe that the work of institutions, bodies and all services in this area must be impeccable. the resolution also calls on the commission to take concrete measures to improve the capacity of the supervisory board to supervise olaf and its investigative function, and therefore supports the resolution tabled following the oral question on the 2014 annual report of the olaf supervisory board.
written. ‒ i accept the annual report of the olaf supervisory committee, as i believe that olaf should always and without exception protect the financial interests of the union. i also believe that the commission should answer questions on the opening of the case, on the respect of the legal conditions of the olaf regulation, on the commission's view on the working methods and working relations of olaf and its supervisory board and how it intends to facilitate a constructive dialogue that is important for the protection of the union's interests.
‒ olaf contributes to the eu institutions' efforts to make the best use of taxpayers' money. the mission of the european anti-fraud office is of particular importance as it protects the financial interests of the european union by investigating fraud, corruption and other illegal activities, investigates issues concerning the performance of official duties by members and staff of the european institutions, and supports the eu institutions, in particular the european commission, in the development and implementation of anti-fraud legislation and policy. olaf receives, through external and internal investigations, an increasing amount of information on possible fraud and irregularities, from a wide range of sources. the 2014 annual report of the supervisory board attracted a lot of attention in the media and public. in view of the role of the european anti-fraud office, it is of the utmost importance that its work is monitored and analysed. the public must have a high-quality view of the work and business of that body. in the last olaf report, there were some specific questions about potential illegal wiretapping. the supervisory board requested that an analysis be carried out on the legality of the use of such research assets. the commission has also received comments from the netherlands, the united kingdom and the united kingdom on the application of the anti-dumping duty imposed by implementing regulation (eu) no 1294/2013 on imports of certain footwear of leather originating in the people's republic of china. the commission notes that the bank's capital needs are not limited to the capital needs of the bank, but are also limited to the capital needs of the bank.
written. ‒ the fight against fraud and harmful practices, both to national budgets and to the budget of the european union, is essential, especially in times of fiscal consolidation and economic recovery. the commission should be able to request the assistance of the member states and the commission in the event of fraudulent or irregular activities. but i want to emphasize that in times of falling standards and the purchasing power of citizens, states must find a compromise between the need to generate monetary income and the need not to overburden themselves, because the rates of various taxes such as the vat rate are an incentive to not declare cash flows, and therefore i must take the opportunity here to highlight again the need to relieve the tax burden of our citizens and entrepreneurs. i supported the motion for a resolution because i believe that the functioning of the office must be fully complementary to the work of its supervisory board in order to guarantee the efficiency of the investigation, but also quality cooperation with partners in reporting and detecting irregularities considered to be fraud.
written. ‒ i support this statement on the situation in hungary, as i consider the reintroduction of the death penalty to be an unacceptable act that is contrary to the fundamental values of the european union, the charter of fundamental rights, the rule of law and threatens the right to human dignity. i also believe that additional efforts are needed to convince the hungarian prime minister that the introduction of the death penalty does not solve the problems in society and that we must all work together towards a better future, not returning to the bad methods of the past that we have now abandoned.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the european parliament resolution on the situation in hungary, as i share the concern of most members of this parliament about the social and political processes taking place in hungary in recent years. i want to emphasise that i am against the death penalty and that i see the very idea that such a penalty should be the responsibility of the member states as a trigger for its introduction. in addition, the creation of an atmosphere of uncertainty and security threats related to migration opens up opportunities for behaviour that deviates from the eu's fundamental principles. i also agree that all the processes taking place in hungary may represent the beginning of a departure from the rule of law. i believe that all member states must fully respect eu law in their legislative and administrative practice and reflect the core european values through their own legislation.
written. ‒ following the brutal murder of a 21-year-old shopgirl in the town of kaposvár, hungarian president viktor orbán said that we should start a debate on restoring the death penalty, which was abolished in 1990 in hungary. no member state of the european union has the death penalty, as it violates articles of the charter of fundamental rights of the european union, and member states are obliged to respect all european and international agreements. all the union leaders strongly condemned the attempts to start such a debate. i am sorry that hungary is facing the problem of a high number of crimes, but this needs to be dealt with in a different way. i did not support the resolution, although it is indisputable that at a time when the union is facing numerous challenges we need to be more coherent, not to allow extremism and to take a common position maintaining the fundamental european values, democracy and the rule of law.
written. ‒ the whole of europe is facing the problem of migration today, not just hungary, and it is therefore important to seek the best solutions through public debate in communication between decision-makers and citizens, taking into account the protection of the human dignity of each person. by consulting citizens on such an important issue, the hungarian government is showing responsibility. so pointing fingers and creating problems because the government is asking citizens for their opinion is unacceptable to me just like this resolution and that's why i voted against it. the elaborate attacks and the presentation of something that has not been said, such as the so-called announcement of the introduction of the death penalty, only shows that those who cannot come to power through elections are ready to use all the methods according to the well-known old saying "the end justifies the means". i am absolutely against the death penalty and so is the epp, the political group to which i belong. as a member of the epp who shares the same values, fidesz can be expected to respect the charter of human rights as it has always done, so the conclusion is that the resolution on hungary is a political pamphlet that seeks to destabilize a successful government through embarrassment and public challenges, just because it promotes democratic values and protects the interests of its people.
written. - like the epp club, i voted against the resolution on the situation in hungary.
written. ‒ as a civilization, we have advanced to a point where human rights, as well as fundamental democratic values, must be unquestionably respected and we must not tire of raising awareness of them. the recent events that have rocked hungary are not just a sad story in that country; unfortunately, other countries are also experiencing them. without contesting the fact that the member states of the union should respect the acquis communautaire and the fundamental european values and democratic principles of the rule of law and respect for fundamental human rights, i feel obliged to stress, as far as i am concerned, the inalienable right of every democratically elected authority in each individual member state of the union to sovereign competence to legislate and to maintain democratic communication and interaction with voters within its own homeland. a right that i feel is being completely ignored in this debate, either accidentally or intentionally. the commission has also been asked to provide a report on the implementation of the new rules on the protection of the financial interests of the union.
written. ‒ i support this report on turkey's accession. the negotiations have never stopped and they should continue, but turkey must work to improve and satisfy the conditions in the areas of justice (rule of law), protection of minority rights, women's rights, fundamental freedoms and fundamental rights. the eu has also been involved in the negotiations on the accession of turkey to the eu. finally, i would like to express my satisfaction with the results of the recent parliamentary elections, because they are good for democracy in turkey.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the european parliament resolution on the commission's 2014 progress report on turkey, as it reflects, for the most part, my theses and views. i would stress the need to continue the dialogue creating the conditions for an effective and successful eu-turkey relationship that will be mutually beneficial. i agree with the need for the turkish government to continue its efforts to achieve a comprehensive and sustainable outcome of the peace process with the kurdish community on the basis of negotiations with the kurdistan workers' party (pkk). it is necessary to continue the process of integration of turkey into the eu in accordance with all the necessary criteria. the commission has also been asked to provide information on the implementation of the eu's human rights law, including on the implementation of the eu's human rights law. in the economic area, it is necessary to continue strengthening economic cooperation where the effects of the customs union are visible.
‒ the eu, by its further enlargement, represents one of the key policies for promoting peace and democracy, and security and prosperity in europe. the progress report on turkey recalls that since the start of the customs union in 1996, the value of bilateral trade between turkey and the eu has more than quadrupled, both due to a significant increase in eu foreign direct investment in turkey and the strong integration between turkish and european companies for mutual benefit. it is important to foster dialogue, to cooperate and to further strengthen the important economic ties between the eu and turkey, which is why i supported this report.
written. ‒ turkey formally applied for membership in 1987 and was recognised as a candidate country for membership only in 1999. following the european council summit in 2004, accession negotiations with turkey were announced to begin in 2005, the same day as those with croatia. in the context of the eu-turkey association agreement, turkey has committed itself to the copenhagen criteria, to good neighbourly relations and to gradual alignment with the eu, but has not yet implemented the provisions of the association agreement and the additional protocol. the reform gains are visible, but they are weak and need to be made a priority of internal policy. reforms are urgently needed in the fields of justice, fundamental rights and justice, freedom and security. the commission should also continue to monitor the implementation of the union's macro-financial assistance to the countries of central and eastern europe, including the countries of the former soviet union, in order to ensure that the union's macro-financial assistance is consistent with the union's macro-financial assistance. turkey must ensure and protect the fundamental human rights and freedoms of all its citizens without exception. the rule of law must prevail in turkey and all three branches of government must function smoothly and independently. turkey must recognize the sovereignty of its neighbouring states. i call on turkey to face its past and to acknowledge and condemn the genocide that the ottoman empire committed against the armenian people.
‒ 2014 has been declared the year of the eu for turkey, underlining ankara's commitment to eu membership. yet the commission's progress report highlights the remaining unresolved issues. on the positive side, turkey has accepted the 2013 democratisation package, the eu strategy for resuming eu accession negotiations, the entry into force of the eu-turkey readmission agreement and the visa regime debate. turkey's humanitarian role in hosting refugees from syria (of 1.7 million) and progress in resolving the kurdish issue is important. on the negative side, the following stand out: disturbances during the local elections in march, as well as the presidential elections in august 2014, the absence of legal consequences and legal measures, followed by the corruption affair in 2013 involving numerous politicians and their family members, judges and police officers, then the right to freedom of the media which was repeatedly threatened until december 2014. the eu remains there to support turkey's efforts to build strong, democratic institutions to ensure respect for religious freedom, human rights and the rule of law. the council, in its 2014 conclusion, highlighted and emphasised the key component of the accession process, namely the recognition of all member states, and called on turkey to take more concrete steps to address the cyprus problem.
written. ‒ i support this motion for a resolution on turkey's progress in 2014 because i believe that turkey is a partner of the european union and that negotiations with that country should continue in the best possible atmosphere because of the positive effects that they produce. i also believe that turkey should be encouraged to implement reforms that are key to its future prosperity. although there are high levels of corruption and crime in turkey, i believe that negotiations and dialogue between the eu and turkey will lead to the necessary reforms that will have a positive impact on addressing these problems as well as the problems of media freedom and the problems of violations of human rights and fundamental freedoms.
written. ‒ i support the draft resolution. the commission concludes that turkey has made significant progress in reforms over the previous 12 months. the union and turkey should continue to work together to ensure that the reform process is conducted in a manner that is consistent with the principles of the union's external relations, including the principles of the rule of law, respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms, and respect for the rule of law, and the rule of law, and the rule of law, in particular in the context of the rule of law, and the rule of law, and the rule of law, in the context of the rule of law, and in the context of the rule of law, and in the context of the rule of law, in order to ensure that the rule of law is respected and that the rule of law is upheld. the union and turkey have agreed to continue negotiations on the basis of the principles of the association agreement and the association agreement on agriculture and rural development. the key elements are therefore credible commitment and a solid democratic foundation, fulfilling the copenhagen criteria, building good neighbourly relations, and enhancing eu-turkey cooperation. turkey remains the eu's sixth largest trading partner and the eu is turkey's largest partner, accounting for 38% of turkey's total trade and almost 71% of foreign direct investment. i also support the commission's ongoing assessment of the eu-turkey customs union with a view to assessing its impact on both sides and ways to improve it, and to encourage turkey to remove remaining restrictions on the free movement of goods.
written. ‒ turkey is an important ally of the european union and any improvement in turkish society can only be welcomed. the president and the government have taken some important steps in the right direction and i hope they will continue to do so. without going into the likelihood of turkish membership of the eu in the foreseeable future, which has been accepted with a certain amount of skepticism on both sides, i find it unacceptable that we are calling on a sovereign state from this house to adopt a new constitution. the constitution is the foundational document on which the turkish state rests and must be tailored to the needs of all citizens of turkey, not to our foreign policy ambitions. i hold that such patronizing behavior on our part, if it has any effect at all, will only provoke negative reactions.
the question he raised by raising his blue card. mr. deputy, i must say that i am very sorry that there has been war in the territory of the former yugoslavia and in my political work of 25 years i have done everything to bring peace to that area. however, i cannot accept your views and i ask you therefore, do you think that the tragedy that milosevic's bandits did in srebrenica is something that is for every condemnation and do you think that a similar scenario could easily have been repeated in kosovo and that there would have been mass killings and mass displacement of the population from kosovo if milosevic had succeeded in his intentions?
mr president, i congratulate my colleague mr paszco on the excellent work he has done on this report, because its contents clearly define the guidelines of our common security and defence policy following the illegal annexation of crimea by russia and the changed strategic and security-military situation in the black sea basin. unfortunately, the minsk agreements have remained, for the most part, a dead letter on paper. so it is high time that russia in particular took responsibility and helped to stop the hostilities and thus prevent further casualties and destruction. i support the consistent approach of non-recognition of the russian annexation of crimea, commitment to the independence, sovereignty and territorial integrity of ukraine. i also believe that a much-needed peace settlement should be actively and constructively discussed. the european union and russia will become partners again when and if the prerequisites for partnership are met a relationship of proven trust, respect for international principles and signed agreements. the report also covered the highly important energy dimension and called for the promotion of energy security as well as the reduction of energy dependency of the member states. the european union member states should also take measures to ensure the necessary safety of oil and gas exploitation and their safe transport in the black sea area. the black sea basin is extremely sensitive to environmental degradation, and the increasing militarization of the region is further threatening this fragile ecosystem. the russian policy of strengthening offensive military forces in the black sea and the planned strengthening and modernisation of the black sea fleet are the best reminder that the black sea basin should be a real priority in the european union's foreign policy action. in addition, the ukrainian authorities have repeatedly threatened to impose sanctions on the ukrainian authorities. the existing black sea synergy is outdated, which is why i join the calls on the commission to draw up as soon as possible a new comprehensive strategy for the black sea region of the european union. (the speaker agreed to answer the question by raising the blue card on the basis of rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure.)
answer the question posed by raising the blue card. i stand behind my experience as vice-president of the osce parliamentary assembly and as a long-time election observer throughout the eurasian space and always, and i have led five international observation missions in georgia, armenia, russia, kazakhstan and moldova, i stand behind my experience simply as a respecter of something called the copenhagen accord. no essential element of the copenhagen accord, that is, the copenhagen rules for the recognition of the elections as legitimate, was met during the so-called referendum in crimea and therefore cannot be recognized as legal.
madam president, mr commissioner, just a few years ago we imagined together with our friends living on the black sea that we could help them and that we could replicate some of the cooperation we have on the adriatic and the ionian sea, and that this could in some way be a model for cooperation on the black sea. those were long ago, those were truly past the fullness of time. today, after the environmental disasters in the black sea, we have the total militarization of the black sea, especially after the annexation of crimea, which of course deserves all condemnation. in this context, i would like to invite the european commission to consider carefully, together with its partners, and in particular with turkey, what strategy it can put together for the black sea, because i think that turkey and, of course, the eu member states can play an important role in curbing what russia's ambitions are in the black sea.
madam president, mr. commissioner, the real question is only one: are we on the brink of another civil war? are we facing the possibility that the chaos that already exists in burundi could spill over into other countries? these are the real questions we need to ask ourselves along with another key question -- what are our mechanisms? what can we do to really prevent a possible new civil war in burundi and spilling this whole conflict, which is obviously already happening, over into other neighboring countries that are also going to have elections soon? of course we should do everything possible to ensure that the current president does not run again and thus open the possibility of burundi's return and also have a positive impact on relations in other countries, in burundi's neighbouring countries. i think it's the only way. if we fail to do so, we will have, quite possibly, not only chaos but a new civil war.
mr. president, football is the child of the industrial revolution, a sport created by the modern age, and promoted globally by modern communication technologies. the extraordinary popularity and mass reach of football, its great marketing and financial value, and its lack of control have made it possible to turn this sport into a confluence of interests of international politics and shady business. it's sad that such a sport and such an integral part of our identity has become synonymous with corruption. the least we can do today is question the motives of the investigation into fifa. it's good that the investigation is finally starting. the evidence, unfortunately, only confirms all the bad assumptions. corruption does not look at activities or national borders. football is no exception. we also need to continue the investigations at the national level, because many of them have provided legitimacy to the leadership of fifa. i support the initiative to finally clarify the controversial actions in fifa and uefa, but also in our croatian football federation, because thanks to some of its prominent protagonists, it has lost legitimacy, causing a boycott and public revulsion. let's bring football back to those who play it and those who enjoy it!
mr. president, sports has long been a big business, which many people have never accepted. they see in the professionalization of sports a loss of sportsmanship and a betrayal of its true purpose. i think professionalism has done a lot of good. for example, it has enabled many talented people to make a living from their talent, but also others to make money, grow and employ themselves by linking their industry to football. but as it has become a global business, soccer has begun to resent many who once enjoyed it, especially in these turbulent times when many citizens are struggling to make ends meet. that's why football officials have a huge responsibility to preserve the integrity of the sport and to bring it back to the little people through their behavior. unfortunately, fifa is clearly going in the wrong direction and i believe there will be no end to the affairs here. those who participate in them should be severely punished and their decisions based on illegal actions should be annulled.
mr. president, let's be clear, football is a hotbed of corruption. black funds, sponsors, everything we know to be illegal, everything is tied to football. it's not just the first league: there's the second league and the third league and the fourth league and the fifth league and so on. and fifa is just an iceberg, nothing more. we have to be realistic, we have to talk about it because it's the same in my country, unfortunately. croatia is a great football team, we have great players, but unfortunately we also have corruption and black money and all the things i've been talking about. but, mr. commissioner, we have the mechanisms. the member countries are helping our football associations. cities, municipalities, regions help football players and football clubs. let's start cleaning up from the beginning. fifa is first in line.
mr. president, (noise) the games. i wish all athletes success. as a member of the croatian olympic committee, i can say that i really hope that the first european games will be a great sporting event, a success of european sport which, as we know, has fantastic athletes. however, what should definitely be said here is: azerbaijan is certainly a country where human rights and freedom of the media and all that is our european values continue to be violated. that's why this debate is necessary here in parliament. but as a country that plays an important role in its region, i agree with the council's view that azerbaijan should not be isolated from us, because that would certainly not be good in the short or long term. we know what kind of things happened. it is our duty to raise awareness of human rights violations, to insist on this in every conversation, but at the same time to try to use these games as a guide to resolve the state of relations and the eastern partnership that we so strongly advocate.
madam president, we are witnessing months and years of cultural genocide. the islamic state has taken over a lot of territory and is committing genocide, it's committing a cultural genocide that we have to stop. palmyra and mazen darwish are two symbols of syria, palmyra as a world heritage site, a unesco heritage site, and darwish as a man with his supporters, as a man fighting for a new syria, for the freedom of syria and for democracy in syria. we have a duty here, beyond the speeches we're giving and the consensus we have on all these issues, to send a clear message that it's time to put an end to all these crimes that are happening before our eyes.
madam president, this is really not the time for ideology. just imagine if one of us or our daughters were to be subjected to that. that's enough to make us think, and that's why i see this debate today as a call to the paraguayan authorities to promote this case, but not just this case, but in all the other countries of south america and other countries of the world where these situations occur. this girl is a symbol of many other girls. we have to fight for her right, and that's why i agree to find a legal solution because it's a danger to both her mental and physical health. we have to help her. under no circumstances should our ideology prevail here, nor should we exploit this debate today for our own purposes. so this is not a discussion about abortion, this is a discussion about a condition that we are aware of that may be happening in some corners of europe.
written. the suffering of many women, and in this case when we are talking about girls, is one of the worst possible violence against young life. the fact that we have numerous examples of underage pregnancies should not leave anyone indifferent. how dangerous this is to the lives of girls and babies is shown by the high mortality rate or the very frequent tragic social cases. for these reasons, we must provide the right to safe abortion to unwanted pregnant minors and all minors whose lives are directly or indirectly in danger. i condemn in the strongest terms the violence against minors and i want every abuser to receive a just punishment for his crimes. paraguay is just one of the countries in latin america where we are witnessing the monstrous pregnancy of a 10-year-old girl who we need to help in her next life, as a symbol of our rejection of this inhumane case. i expect the european union to include this issue of violence against minors in its eu-celac summits on the agenda of the first summit to follow, as the protection of children's rights is clearly defined in the un convention on the rights of the child.
the scale of the tragedy that occurred on 25 april and 12 may in the nepal earthquake is best seen in the figures: almost 9 million dead, 2.8 million displaced persons, 1.7 million children without one or both parents, 5.8 million people in need of health care, 1.6 million people in need of all kinds of aid. it's a world heritage site, destroyed, the government estimates it's $10 billion in damage, followed by monsoons and the inability to plant rice, which means food problems again next year. so the european union needs to organize coordinated assistance with the international community in such a way that with the financial resources we have humanitarian aid in agriculture, in seeds, in teams of people for health, for the restoration of cultural heritage and the international community must help that country to find its way to democracy because they have obviously started well at this point with the consensus that they have.
madam president, the scale of this tragedy is immense and we are shocked by what we are hearing happening these days, a month and a half after the humanitarian tragedy that occurred in nepal. what we need to do is make sure that the funds allocated are spent transparently. it's unbelievable that the nepalese government is still charging tariffs on humanitarian aid. we know that nepal was a poor, underdeveloped country before this disaster, and we also know that half of its income came from tourism, which is now seriously threatened. so help is needed. eight million people have requested humanitarian aid. today's debate and resolution is an opportunity to call on all members of the european union to help. solidarity is necessary and let's not think that nepal is somewhere far away. nepal can happen to us.
written. i supported the resolution on the situation in nepal following the earthquake, as the country is also currently threatened by the monsoon, which will begin in early june and could cause additional damage and a rise in water levels, making it more difficult for aid workers to reach vulnerable populations. in addition to the need for the european union and international organisations to improve their responses to emergencies in the world, i believe that the european parliament should continuously stress the need to increase funding for humanitarian aid, while transparently exercising its role in the area of oversight of the delivery of humanitarian aid and the spending of budgetary funds. the adoption of the european consensus on humanitarian aid in 2007 is largely due to parliament, which reaffirms its active role in humanitarian and development aid with this resolution.
written. ‒ the black sea basin is one of the most strategically important areas in the world and is of particular importance to the eu and its member states. the area is of particular importance in the context of ensuring their security and defence and for the eu's neighbourhood and eastern partnership policies. the changing geostrategic landscape, the way the military situation in the black sea basin is developing and the forcible annexation of crimea by russia are indications of broader and systematic challenges to the post-cold war european security system. coordination with nato and the us is of paramount importance given that the black sea basin is a key part of euro-atlantic security. in conclusion, i support this report because it reflects the current situation and identifies key security issues in the black sea region.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the strategic military situation in the black sea basin following the illegal russian annexation of crimea, as i believe that the situation is such that a strong european engagement and action is needed to curb further militarisation and further security deterioration. at the same time, we worked with the council of europe to create euro-regional cooperation in the black sea by transferring the experience and results achieved in the adriatic and ionian seas. unfortunately, the situation has changed since the russian annexation of crimea. given the other problematic situations in the region, we need to find ways of overcoming the situation quickly, and i see turkey as a partner for eu member states in this regard. i also think it is important that the report also mentions the ecological sensitivity of the black sea basin, which needs to be addressed. i welcome the fact that the report calls for the development of an overall eu strategy for the black sea region, a review of the european security strategy and the european neighbourhood policy.
written. ‒ russia's disregard for the sovereignty of neighbouring states, illegal annexation of crimea and agreements with separatist authorities in abkhazia and south ossetia violate international agreements, norms and laws. the black sea coast is the scene of protracted conflicts in several states, which endangers the security of the union as the black sea is a strategically important area and an external border of the union. we cannot stop at warnings and threats to russia, we need to agree a position and create a common foreign and security policy and really implement sanctions against russia to protect the interests of the union and neighbouring countries, which is why i supported this report. the report calls for a review of the european security policy, a unified and stronger union position towards russia, which should result in the cessation of all conflicts in which russia is involved. peace and stability in the black sea region should be a priority of the union's foreign policy.
written. ‒ i support this strong resolution in which the european parliament clearly and unequivocally expresses its position on the situation in the black sea area. i regret to say that such strong resolutions were not made during the war that ravaged my country in the early 1990's. failure to react at the moment when it was necessary was harmful for slovenia, disastrous for croatia and bosnia and herzegovina, but also for the other states created by the breakup of the former yugoslavia. this resolution also comes too late. history is repeating itself. the policy of the regime ruling in the russian federation has been encouraged by its failure to react in previous times, during the crisis in georgia or events in the caucasus region. we know from our own european history how totalitarian regimes react to the passivity of the democratic world. we must ask ourselves, is our passivity not the cause of the strengthening of the new totalitarian regime in the east? concern for our own good and disregard for the good of our neighbor will eventually result in a situation where there will be no more neighbors to help us, but we will have to face an even harder and greater challenge on our own.
written. ‒ while the eu must continue to insist on the consistent application of international law and the non-acceptance of violent border changes, the significant strategic changes in the black sea basin caused by russia's illegal annexation of crimea simply cannot be ignored. the internal political instability of the wider black sea region and the frozen conflicts in transnistria, abkhazia, south ossetia and nagorno-karabakh are already contributing to the increased instability in the black sea region. however, we must be aware that the occupation of the entire peninsula of exceptional geographical importance further complicates the security situation in the nearest european neighbourhood. crimea, as the most heavily fortified land within the black sea, is of invaluable strategic military importance and its control greatly facilitates the control of the entire basin. the russian federation has provided the russian federation with the means to implement the 'cold war' in crimea. the annexation of crimea has brought about a change with concrete consequences for the defence and security policy and for the union's energy, trade, transport and maritime policy. the eu must respond to the changed circumstances and update the european security strategy, the european maritime security strategy and the eu black sea strategy. as mr pașcu's report is a kind of first step in that process, i strongly support it.
written. ‒ i support the report, given that the black sea basin is an important external border of the european union and that the illegal annexation of crimea in the black sea basin has changed the balance of military forces, so that russia now illegally controls hundreds of kilometers of the crimean coast and nearby waters bordering on the sea with nato and the eu. i believe that by occupying the entire peninsula, russia has acquired a highly important base for launching actions to the west and south, where it has already established a permanent naval battle group. in the event that russia does not fully implement the minsk ceasefire agreements, the sanctions regime should be continued and strengthened. furthermore, ukraine, the republic of moldova and georgia should consider strengthening cooperation with each other, for example by considering the creation of a multinational force, and nato member states should support these initiatives. the implementation of the eu energy policy aimed at promoting energy security and the initiative to diversify the black sea energy sources through, inter alia, investments and financial measures is also key. the commission should also support member states in their efforts to find solutions to increase defence budgets to 2% of gdp.
written. ‒ i voted for the report on the strategic military situation in the black sea basin after the illegal annexation of crimea. the historical circumstances that have divided ukraine on both cultural and political grounds have led to a situation where this area has a decisive strategic role, and the black sea basin in some way forms the backbone of world politics and economy. the ukrainian authorities have repeatedly expressed their willingness to cooperate with the ukrainian authorities in the fight against the illegal annexation of crimea and the annexation of crimea. we must not allow the status quo in eastern ukraine to be preserved any longer, and i therefore support efforts to engage in the development of a comprehensive european union strategy for the black sea region in order to prevent a situation in which ukraine could be recognised as a collateral victim in geostrategic and geopolitical competition and to protect its national interests.
written. - i applaud the action of the us investigative authorities who have been caught red-handed punishing the incredible corruption at the highest levels of fifa. football is the most popular sport in the world, but that cannot be said of the world's governing football organization. the moral integrity of sports organisations is of paramount importance, as both professional and amateur sport play a key role in promoting world peace and respect for human rights and solidarity. they can't fulfill that role fully if they're burdened with scandal. i call on the european commission to continue to develop a coordinated approach to combating organised crime in sport by coordinating the efforts of sports organisations and national police and judicial authorities. although it is not the eu's responsibility, i would like to take this opportunity to draw attention to the many negative phenomena in croatian football and the work of its umbrella organisation.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the european parliament resolution on the recent revelations of high-level corruption cases in fifa, because of the social impact that sports, and especially football as the world's most popular sport, have on the daily lives of citizens on all continents. therefore, it is necessary to remove all links between sport and corruption and malpractice in order to highlight its positive effects, namely solidarity, respect for human rights, as well as health and economic benefits. in this context, it is necessary to raise the level of transparency, democratic conduct, accountability, ethical standards, as well as the code of conduct of the fifa governing and executive committees and other sports bodies. the commission will also continue to monitor the implementation of the union's policy on corruption and its impact on the international community. in this particular case, i believe that further investigation is needed to establish with precision what malpractices were committed and how the processes of awarding the home world championships actually proceeded.
written. ‒ football and sport in general have a strong positive social impact on the daily lives of millions of citizens, and especially the younger generations. sports organizations, professional and amateur at all levels, must be transparent. their key role is to promote peace, respect for human rights and solidarity in the world. serious allegations of corruption in the governing football organization fifa are very worrying. the commission has also found that the commission's practice of not providing for the application of the principle of proportionality is not in line with the principle of proportionality as set out in article 107 (3) (c) tfeu. i support the resolution adopted and call on sports organisations, member states and the eu to cooperate fully in the investigations into the alleged corruption cases. it is necessary that fifa establish and apply strict ethical standards and a code of conduct to its administration and executive board, and that they be supervised by an independent supervisory body.
written. the entire public has been shocked by the information that the us attorney's office, in cooperation with the swiss judiciary, has released about suspected embezzlement and money laundering at the highest levels of management in fifa. the allegations, which largely concern the commercial rights to all major football tournaments held over the past two decades, as well as allegations of embezzlement and money laundering during the 2018 and 2022 world cup bidding process, and the estimate that fifa heads have so far withdrawn some $110 million, a third of all legitimate costs required to host these tournaments, are truly shocking. football does not belong to a few people who are at the helm of it, but to millions of people around the world who love the sport. corruption undermines citizens' trust in democracy and public institutions, it undermines the market, it takes millions of euros out of taxpayers' pockets, and in this case it is also used to launder ill-gotten gains. it is estimated that corruption costs the eu around €120 billion a year, which is the amount of the eu's annual budget. i support the commitment to a greater commitment by the european union to combating corruption as well as an investigation into fifa, because i believe it is time for change and transparency in the business of football.
written. ‒ football, considered the most popular sport in the world, must not be tainted by corruption and must be protected from recent events surrounding fifa, not condemned for it. it should be noted that both football and sport in general have a strong positive social impact on the daily lives of millions of citizens, especially young people, and that recent events in fifa have severely damaged the reputation of football as a whole. i think it's important that all sports governing bodies commit to good governance practices and greater transparency to reduce the risk of corruption and money laundering. in the light of the above, i supported the resolution on the recent revelations of high-level corruption in fifa and as i agree with the fact that it is necessary for sports organisations, member states and the eu to cooperate fully in all ongoing and future investigations into alleged cases of corruption in fifa.
written. we have witnessed the recent shocking revelations and allegations of criminal activity within fifa, one of the world's largest and most famous sports organizations. fifa was founded more than 100 years ago (1904) and has over 200 football associations as members (208), which is more than the united nations has members. the existence of crime in such an organization is a devastating fact that causes great concern. the allegations are directed at high-ranking fifa officials. the allegations of millions of dollars in bribes allegedly obtained for marketing and media rights, the accusations of blackmail, fraud and money laundering spanning nearly two decades are a disastrous fact. when we consider that these practices affect millions of people and young people around the world who are involved in sport, the european union, which is based on the principles and values of transparent business, must clearly condemn these practices and i urge this report.
written. ‒ i support the statement by the council and the commission welcoming the recent revelations of high levels of corruption in fifa, the world's top football organisation. since fifa is responsible for the organisation of international football competitions, i consider that its officials must act in accordance with the sporting principles, and this primarily concerns respect for the laws and rules of the organisation in order to provide all competitors with equal opportunities and thus show their consideration for competitors as well as for spectators. in order to restore the reputation of the organization and the faith of the spectators and the competitors in a fair football competition at the highest level, i believe it is necessary and appropriate to punish all participants if they are found guilty of fraud, racketeering, money laundering, marketing contracts and if embezzlement in the amount of millions of dollars is proven to be true. in the wake of these allegations at the very top of world football for the last 24 years, i welcome the resignation of sepp blatter, who shortly after his arrest was elected for the fifth time as president of fifa.
written. the forthcoming european council will discuss important issues of importance for the future of european unity. first, the question of the eurozone and greece's participation in its further action will certainly dominate the session. i think it's important for the future of the european union that greece remains in the eurozone, but there's no dilemma that the greek government has to take some of its responsibility. secondly, i strongly support the efforts to create a single european capital union and to strengthen the interconnectedness of the european banking system. thirdly, we also need joint, much stronger, cooperation in the area of integrated defence capabilities. the european union should develop its defence forces in synergy with those of the nato alliance. fourth, on the question of the high pressure of immigrants entering the territory of the european union, i believe that the solution is to set quotas by country for those refugees who are genuine refugees. all those who wish to exploit the tragedies of others for their own unjustified interests should be disabled in their intentions.
written. the issue of the greek financial crisis has emerged as a major topic of discussion. it is not just a crisis of the functioning of one country, but a crisis of the relationship within the eu and the imf. the nature of the attitude towards the greek crisis is the best indicator that the system needs to be revised, because even those who are not currently affected by the financial crisis could become the subject of future discussions. on the issue of migration and the distribution of quotas, it is clear that the european union has recognized the problem, but it has been half-hearted in its search for a way out of what is truly a disaster. the question arises as to what profile the eu wants to have in the first two decades of the 21st century: will it be an 'eu of the privileged' or an 'eu of the oppressed', but also that the answer probably lies somewhere in the middle. at this point, five european countries are hosting 70 percent of all refugees in the eu. the others have very little or no participation and no interest in this programme, especially eastern europe, especially the baltic countries, and unfortunately croatia is included in this. so we are only at the beginning of a process that i hope will lead to a far more serious solution than we have seen so far.
mr president, this report well recognises the growing need for investment in education and skills development in new technologies, and i would particularly welcome the emphasis on greater access to finance for smes, which have suffered the most in the crisis and whose recovery is crucial for our economies. but i have to say that i'm concerned about the very character of this fund because it's too much like a political project of central planning. the proposed composition of the management board is of additional concern in this respect, as 75% of its members are appointed by the commission, while member states are not allowed to appoint members. i see that the report also calls for the achievement of the political objectives of the union through funding from the fund, and i would like to call on all stakeholders to be guided above all by clear economic calculation so that the taxpayers who finance all this benefit to the maximum.
mr president, the european fund for strategic investments will mark our term of office. its success or failure will be part of what will be part of our work, and in particular the work of the commission. in this context, i want to strongly support the creation of this fund, i want to strongly support the intention to invest in infrastructure, in energy, i want to strongly support the fact that we want to talk about venture capital, to support venture capital, start-ups, to encourage public-private partnerships. but what i want to make a special point about is: let's not forget our traditional industries. this parliament and the commission talk too little about tourism, and i think that tourism is a great opportunity for us, especially in the mediterranean countries, and we talk too little about shipbuilding, and the ship is a genuine european product. and here i think there is certainly a lot of room for improvement and the possibility to strengthen our european competitiveness.
the question he raised by raising his blue card. i'm not going to mention the word idiot because i've lost my immunity here in this house because of it, so i'm not going to mention that word. but, sir, i ask you, why do you mention croatia when you clearly don't understand the situation in our country? you can speak and you have the right to speak about your country, you have the right to speak about croatia, but please, be informed. and i ask you, so that you can answer the question, do you really know the situation in croatia and what has been done for croatia by joining the european union?
mr president, it is true that more europe is not the answer for everyone, but more europe when we are talking about monetary union is certainly a good solution. more europe when we talk about the energy union is certainly a good solution. more europe when we talk about digital union is also certainly a good solution. that is why we need an ambitious report and that is why our club will not support this report because we believe that we need stronger and faster reforms, we believe that alongside these reforms there should be clear rules, because without clear rules that everyone will follow there is no common europe and no common success, and only common success will guarantee the satisfaction of our citizens. whatever we are told here and whatever we are called upon to do, i am sure that more europe in the cases i have mentioned can only help to improve the lives of our citizens in the european union.
written. the stability and growth pact is an important instrument for ensuring fiscal discipline in the member states, and its credibility requires that the application of the rules in the member states is transparent, fair, timely and based on sound economic analysis. in the light of the recently presented report on the completion of economic and monetary union, it should be noted that the increasing interdependence of the euro area member states, particularly evident in times of crisis, requires a more efficient and fairer institutional system, which will ensure solidarity on the one hand, but at the same time, the observance of commonly agreed rules. furthermore, the european semester has significantly strengthened the coordination of economic policies. however, i believe that sufficient attention should be paid to recommendations to individual member states and to compliance with the rules, as otherwise the credibility and sustainability of the fiscal policy framework, which has been considerably improved by the adoption of the six-pack, is jeopardised. we have set ambitious targets for the coming period, and to achieve them it is clear that we need clear guidelines and even clearer political will.
i thank the chairman, i welcome the commissioner and i thank my colleague mr lamassoure, chairman of the special committee on taxation, who has taken many initiatives in this short time to raise awareness of the importance of simplifying and harmonising tax systems in the european union. a stable and simple tax system is one of the key elements of a favourable business environment. this action plan is an important and major step towards creating fair, efficient, and development-oriented corporate taxation. taxes should be paid where the business is conducted and profits made. we can't allow business in one state and taxation in another. the commission notes that the commission has not provided any evidence that the tax system of the member states is in any way compatible with the internal market. we do not want harmonized tax rates. the commission considers that the measure is compatible with the internal market. however, it is important to work on strengthening cooperation between member states' tax administrations to prevent tax avoidance and double taxation and to apply rules to prevent tax base erosion and profit shifting. it is important to simplify and harmonise tax procedures in the european union in order to make it easier for entrepreneurs to do their job. the non-transparent, preferential tax treatment and the possibility of shifting profits to avoid paying tax in the country where the value added is created are practices that distort not only the tax bases of the member states but also the entire single market of the european union. i therefore welcome this action plan and call for its implementation as soon as possible and in a better way, which will make it possible to increase the transparency of the work of the tax administrations of the member states and to prevent tax fraud and tax evasion.
madam president, it is almost unbelievable that we have no more problems in our european union. i'm saying this because we have one single common currency for the vast majority of countries, and we have 28 tax systems. many economists say that this is unsustainable, however, i believe and i want our system to remain sustainable and that is why i am in favour of the variants of the harmonization of the tax system in the euro area because it is the only possible right and proper way, and a long-term stable way, to ensure the possibility of investment and all that we know about the detection of tax havens and tax fraud. who will be more likely to cheat on taxes, the big guys or the little guys? of course, the big multinationals, not the small and medium-sized businesses. who's going to be easier to create tax havens? those who want to create fraud. and that is why i believe that this path which the commission has taken is the right one and i support it.
written. this action plan provides the basis for building a fairer, growth-friendly corporate taxation framework for the european union. the proposed measures will contribute to income stability, a stronger single (common) market, greater resilience and efficiency of companies and a fairer and more level playing field for companies. the alignment of the corporate tax rate is not part of this action plan. the aim is to coordinate the tax systems of the member states so that they can better combat aggressive tax planning. this action plan will be the basis for the commission's work on company taxation policy in the coming years. the key to reforming corporate taxation is ultimately in the hands of the member states, which must overcome their differences in the name of fairness, competitiveness and efficiency.
madam president, the european union and the member states need to create a new framework for european shipbuilding. we need to redefine the policy towards european shipbuilding in such a way that we have vertical and horizontal support, and in particular to find a financial model for financing european shipbuilding. we must return to the logic that shipbuilding in europe is a possible strategic industry. so many jobs, so many common products from european countries make up one ship, and i am convinced that it is the ship that can become one of the par excellence common european products. so i suggest we find specific funding models for these common products. we also need to simplify many of the regulations governing shipbuilding and we also need to simply create guarantees that will enable both the member states and the european institutions to finance shipbuilding.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the motion for a european parliament decision requesting the waiver of the immunity of sotirios zarianopoulos on the grounds of an accusation of physical violence which cannot be linked to the performance of his duties as a member of the european parliament. it follows that mr zarianopoulos' conduct is not linked to voting or expressing an opinion in the context of parliamentary activities. therefore, since mr. zarianopoulos is invoking the so-called fumus persecutionis, i believe that the truth and eventual innocence of mr. zarianopoulos will be proven in court.
‒ mr sotirios zarianopoulos is an independent member of the european parliament and a member of the committee on economic and monetary affairs, the special committee on taxation decisions and other measures similar in nature or effect and the delegation to the joint parliamentary committee of the republic of macedonia. the deputy chief prosecutor of the supreme court of greece has applied for the waiver of his immunity on the charge that on 4 march 2010 he entered the premises of the public greek television channel ert with threats of physical violence in order to interrupt the broadcast of the afternoon news. i support the report of ms laura ferrara and the decision based on the opinion of the committee on legal affairs to waive the immunity of mr zarianopoulos. the commission has also been informed by the european parliament and the council that the commission has not yet taken action on the request for a preliminary ruling.
written. ‒ i respect the recommendation of the rapporteur because, although the criminal prosecution is not related to expressing an opinion or voting in the exercise of his duties as a member of the european parliament within the meaning of article 8 of protocol no 7 on the privileges and immunities of the european union, and the alleged offence is clearly not related to the exercise of the duties of mr uspaskicha as a member of the european parliament, the committee on legal affairs of the european parliament is not the competent authority to assess whether the criminal prosecution is initiated with the intention of causing political damage to the member concerned (fumus persecutionis) because it was initiated before mr zarianopoulos became a member of the european parliament.
written. ‒ in order to ensure the credibility of meps as representatives of eu citizens, it is important that their parliamentary immunity serve exclusively as an instrument of protection against politically motivated persecution. the purpose of parliamentary immunity is never to place members above the law, but to serve their unhindered and independent functioning. the ep legal affairs committee found that in the case of the greek mep sotirios zarianopoulos there was no basis for the assumption that the aim of the procedure was to harm the political activity of the mep, given that the procedure itself was initiated several years before the start of the mep's mandate. apart from the above, i support this report because it shows that the alleged wrongdoing of the greek member of parliament sotirios zarianopoulos, who is accused of threatening physical violence, cannot be connected in any way with the exercise of the honorary office of member of the european parliament. in accordance with the presumption of innocence, and given that counselor zarianopoulos is invoking the so-called fumus persecutionis, i believe that the truth and eventual innocence of mr. zarianopoulos will be proven before the competent courts.
written. ‒ i support this report because, as stated in the report itself, the alleged offence is clearly not connected in any way with the function of a member of the european parliament and there are no grounds for supposing that the aim of the proceedings is to harm the political activity of the member, since the proceedings themselves were initiated before the member's term of office.
written. ‒ i voted to waive the immunity of mp sotirious zarianopoulos who is accused of using threats of physical violence in march 2010 to illegally enter the headquarters of the 3rd programme of the greek public television ert in order to interrupt the afternoon news and read the communiqué. i believe that this high court should not interfere with the powers of the judicial authorities and examine the circumstances in which the act for which the counsel is charged was committed, but after considering all the relevant evidence, make the best decision that will not detract from the counsel's activity. i firmly believe that any form of violence in any context cannot be justified and therefore i support the decision that in this case, the representative zarianopoulos rightfully faces the criminal offence for which he is charged and thus shows responsibility, primarily to the viewers of greek public television and to the citizens whose interests he represents.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the european parliament's motion for the waiver of the immunity of udi voigt because the alleged crime in question was committed before mr voigt became a member of the european parliament, i.e. while he was president of the national democratic party. in addition, the said offence is not related to expressing an opinion or voting, but to allegations of incitement to hatred and group insult. i therefore support the waiver of mr voigt's immunity, which also represents the position of the alde group.
‒ german independent mep udo voigt is a member of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs and the delegation for relations with iran. the rapporteur of the committee on legal affairs, mr tadeusz zwiefka, in his report, approved the waiver of the immunity of mr voigt. the president of the regional appeals court in berlin has asked for the waiver of the immunity of the deputy of udie voigt for the prosecution of an alleged crime of incitement to hatred. the national democratic party of germany issued a publication allegedly inciting hatred during the 2006 fifa world cup, and mp voigt was the party chairman at the time. i supported the waiver of the immunity of member of the european parliament ude voigt as the charges were not related to the performance of his duties in the parliament, but for the purpose of continuing the investigation procedure.
written. ‒ i respect the rapporteur's recommendation because, although the prosecution is not related to expressing an opinion or voting in the performance of his duties as a member of the european parliament within the meaning of article 8 of protocol no 7 on the privileges and immunities of the european union, and the alleged offence is clearly not related to the performance of his colleague mr uspaskich's duties as a member of the european parliament, there is no reason to assume that the prosecution was initiated with the intention of causing political damage to the member concerned (fumus persecutionis) because it was initiated before mr voigtu became a member of the european parliament.
written. ‒ in order to ensure the credibility of meps as representatives of eu citizens, it is important that their parliamentary immunity serve exclusively as an instrument of protection against politically motivated persecution. the purpose of parliamentary immunity is never to place members above the law, but to serve their unhindered and independent functioning. the report on the request for waiver of immunity of ude voigt states that voigt is accused of incitement to hatred and group insults in a publication issued by the national democratic party of germany in 2006, when voigt was the head of the party. the ep legal affairs committee in the case of mr voigt considers that there is no reasonable suspicion of an attempt to obstruct the work of the members of the so-called fumus persecutionis in the said case and that the procedure was initiated several years before mr voigt became a member of the european parliament. it is also clear that the charges against voigt are not related to the performance of his duties as a member of the european parliament, nor are they related to the expression of an opinion or the voting of a member of the european parliament in the performance of his duties within the meaning of article 8 of protocol no 7 on the privileges and immunities of the eu. i therefore supported the report.
written. ‒ i support this report because as stated in the report itself, there is no reasonable suspicion of attempted interference with the work of the representative. the charges themselves relate to acts committed in 2006, and the proceedings were initiated several years before the mandate of the representative. the offence is not in any way connected with the work of a member of the european parliament.
written. ‒ i voted to waive the immunity of mp voigt, who is accused of inciting hatred and group insults in a publication issued by the national democratic party of germany during the 2006 football world cup, for which he was responsible as the then party chairman. since mr voigt was not at that time exercising his parliamentary duties and was not in his capacity as a member of the european parliament, i consider that the request for the waiver of immunity in this case is justified and that the undisputed assumption of responsibility associated with his duties as party president is justified.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the draft legislative resolution of the european parliament on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the european fund for strategic investments and amending regulations (eu) no 1291/2013 and (eu) no 1316/2013 because it is crucial and necessary to foster economic recovery and the competitiveness of the european union, especially in those member states most affected by the financial crisis. it is therefore important to ensure that funding is provided for quality projects that contribute to job creation, infrastructure upgrading, research and innovation, etc. in order to achieve long-term growth and enhance competitiveness. in this context, particular attention should be paid to the needs of local and regional authorities to trigger additional investment to achieve the europe 2020 objectives. however, it is necessary that all procedures are carried out in a transparent and accountable manner in order to minimise the possibility of fraud and to improve reporting. i therefore strongly support the creation of this fund to mark the work of our mandate, with a particular focus on risky investments and public-private partnerships, without, however, forgetting traditional european industries such as tourism and shipbuilding.
written. i support the establishment of a european fund for strategic investments set up in cooperation with the european investment bank to mobilise financial resources. the purpose of the fund is to mitigate the consequences of the financial and economic crisis by investing in riskier projects in the fields of research, innovation, energy, transport and social infrastructure, education and science. the european commission vice-president jyrki katainen stressed that the implementation phase was now beginning and that it was very important to convey messages to the member states. the european union cannot implement the efsi alone, that is a member state task. we need intermediaries for smes, government action to set up national and regional investment platforms and we need to send a message to entrepreneurs that they can contact the european investment bank themselves today. only in this way will the european fund for strategic investments stimulate growth, development and enable the creation of new jobs.
written. ‒ it is worrying that the recovery from the economic crisis that began in 2007 has never been slower than the recovery we are witnessing today. the current level of investment and investment in the eu is insufficient and decisive action is needed immediately. the establishment of the efsi is only one of those measures whose coordination must be applied in order to achieve the maximum synergistic effect of all the measures taken. mobilizing finance and investment in a fair and transparent way, improving the investment climate and supporting projects of public interest, through the mobilisation of the 315 billion euro efsi, as proposed, i see as a good basis for a new economic upswing. the creation of new jobs and increased eu investment should be based on investments in renewable energy sources, investments in the agricultural sector, rural development, and self-sustaining projects such as eco-production and eco-tourism. i consider it particularly important to make the necessary efforts to ensure that the effects of the existence of this fund are felt at the level of smes, startups and the self-employed, because they are the source of jobs for the largest number of european citizens, have the greatest potential for growth locally and globally, and i strongly advocate that they be the largest beneficiaries of the funds provided and the guarantors of the long-term growth of the eu economy.
written. ‒ it is not often that the leaders of all eu member states reach a consensus and politically support a proposal with relative ease, as recently happened with the juncker investment plan. there is a broad consensus among eu leaders and the various political groups in the european parliament that such a plan is necessary after years of recession and stagnation in the eu caused, among other things, by a lack of investment. i support juncker's investment plan as one of the fulfilled promises made to the socialists and democrats ahead of the vote of confidence in him. given that the energy sector, transport connectivity and research are mentioned as areas of investment, i think that the possibilities of this plan for croatia should not be underestimated. on the other hand, it remains an open question which of the 77 projects submitted can be accepted. nevertheless, the backbone of the whole project is that the juncker investment plan, like elsewhere in the eu, should encourage renewed economic initiative here. in the meantime, we have significant eu funds at our disposal that can serve as a platform for the economic recovery and development process. so the juncker plan, if fully implemented, is a welcome contribution to that process which is worth embracing and which i therefore support. in particular, i would like to emphasise that, in addition to project readiness, the financial crisis in the member states should also be taken into account as a criterion for allocating this fund.
written. ‒ the global economic and financial crisis has had a profound impact on investment in europe, which has declined by around 15% since its peak in 2007, affecting all european regions especially the less developed ones. the european fund for strategic investments (efsi) is a key element of economic growth, i.e. its main purpose should be to help overcome the difficulties in financing and implementing strategic investments of economic and social importance in the union in order to strengthen a sustainable economy and create quality jobs and to guarantee better access to finance, in particular in regions where it is structurally constrained. the €315 billion of additional investment in the euro area should create one million new jobs over the next three years. the money that is used from the fund needs to be used for projects that will bring general welfare to all members and thus to croatia and that will, i hope, play a big role in its economic recovery. at the same time, i believe that the project should be brought closer to the citizens and that the opportunities it offers should be presented. i therefore supported the report because i believe it is our duty to take all the steps necessary to break the vicious circle of underinvestment and to stimulate economic growth and restore business confidence.
written. ‒ i support this report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the european fund for strategic investments and amending the regulations. the member states most affected by the crisis are experiencing a lack of investment, which is negatively affecting job creation and long-term growth. the commission should also be able to use the appropriations entered in this article to finance the expenditure incurred by the member states in the implementation of the union's macro-financial assistance. the financing of investments, structural reforms and fiscal responsibility would contribute to improving the union's competitiveness and attracting investments. to increase the impact of the efsi, it is necessary to continue to implement effective structural reforms that are both economically and socially sustainable, as well as to support the conditions for the creation of quality and sustainable jobs and to invest in social policies under the social investment package. in addition, it is necessary to harmonise the skills of workers benefiting from the esf and to adapt business services.
‒ the european fund for strategic investments is at the heart of president juncker's investment plan. i support this fund, which is a great opportunity for all the member states of the european union, and especially for those whose economies are stagnating or growing at very low rates. the fall in investment since the start of the economic crisis has further exacerbated the recession and this plan is an excellent opportunity to stimulate new growth and job creation, especially in new member states such as croatia, where the fall in investment has further hampered cohesion. in croatia, gdp has been continuously declining since the end of 2011 with minimal growth in the last two quarters (0.2% iv/2014; 0.5% i/2015) and this fund is an additional opportunity to change trends and increase economic activity. i think it is necessary to stress that, in addition to public investment, it is very important to mobilise private investment in order to maximise the impact of public investment and to realise riskier projects. i hereby invite private investors from all countries and from croatia to get involved and apply. the commission notes that the project is part of the 'dubrovnik' initiative, which aims to improve the quality of the air transport services provided by dubrovnik airport. in addition, i hope that the construction of the pelješac bridge, a capital project that would finally connect croatia and the european union, will find a place in this plan.
written. ‒ in the report i recognise the possibility of a quality action that will allow the allocation of funds from the fund for strategic investments towards the alleviation of macroeconomic imbalances, both in the republic of croatia and in other member states with a low gdp rate. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's macro-financial assistance and the implementation of the union's macro-financial assistance. in this context, it is important that projects to be financed by the fund are selected on the basis of their effectiveness and not on political criteria, which is unfortunately not the case in this proposal. we must not forget that the fund will be financed by taxpayers' money and therefore the projects selected must have an optimal rate of return and be of the greatest benefit to the citizens who finance these projects. the appointment of three of the four members of the fund's management board by the european commission and the central role assigned to the commission in the work of the fund indicate that policy will have a major influence on the selection of projects; but let us hope that the european parliament, through the control it will exercise, will ensure that economic benefit will be the main criteria guiding the structure that manages the fund. that is why i abstained.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a european parliament and council decision on the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund, in accordance with point 12 of the interinstitutional agreement of 2 december 2013 between the european parliament, the council and the commission on budgetary discipline, on cooperation in budgetary matters and on sound financial management, as i consider that the visibility of the european globalisation adjustment fund to the general public is important, and even more important is the general awareness and information of the targeted beneficiaries, the authorities, the social partners, the media, as well as the continuous communication with stakeholders at local and regional level. furthermore, the commission and the member states should do more to improve the monitoring and evaluation of the impact of egf support, allow greater flexibility during the payment period, improve budgetary measures to accelerate the mobilisation of the egf, make the right of access to support available to young people up to 25 years of age in regions with high unemployment, and certainly emphasise the importance of networking and exchanging information on the egf in relation to the new regulations.
written. ‒ the european globalisation adjustment fund was created to provide assistance to former employees in finding a new job, education or self-employment, who have lost their jobs as a result of globalisation and the financial and economic crisis. the amount of assigned revenue in accordance with article 21 (3) of the financial regulation is estimated at eur 100000. the european commission requested the mobilisation of the egf to the amount of eur 630 000 for the technical upgrading of the egf itself. the amount would be used to collect data, create a knowledge base, provide information and other technical and administrative assistance with a view to improving the information about the fund and its practical implementation and to evaluate measures already implemented. i supported the report by mr gérard deprez as it approves the request to mobilise the european globalisation adjustment fund to make more effective use of it and proposes additional activities in more detail. calls for the standardisation and simplification of the procedure to make it easier for member states to access information on the fund, to submit a request and to implement measures to combat unemployment and mitigate the effects of the crisis more effectively.
written. ‒ over the last year we have voted for many decisions on the use of the european globalisation adjustment fund. these decisions have helped workers who, as a result of major structural changes in world trade patterns and the global financial and economic crisis, found themselves in an unenviable position, to cope with the crisis more easily and to reintegrate into the labour market as painlessly as possible. this decision today is somewhat different, but almost as important for workers who find themselves in an unenviable position because of global movements. the commission initiative is aimed at the process of integrating the egf into the electronic data exchange system (sfc2014) which has been in place for several years and is financially demanding and will result in an acceleration of the application processing process and appropriate assistance to workers. i therefore support the decision allocating the amount of eur 630 000 for the purposes just mentioned and hope that the fund will continue to justify its role today and increase its visibility as a union instrument of solidarity with workers who have lost their jobs. this may be achieved by analysing and reporting on the use of the egf and evaluating its performance in the period 2007 to 2013. i hope that the commission will submit such a report to parliament in due course.
written. ‒ as the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) was established to provide support for workers made redundant and self-employed persons whose activity has ceased as a result of major structural changes in world trade patterns caused by globalisation, the prolonged global financial and economic crisis referred to in regulation (ec) no 546/2009 (3) or the new global financial and economic crisis, and to assist them in their reintegration into the labour market, i support the decision to mobilise the egf from the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2015 to provide the sum of eur 630 000 in commitment and payment appropriations. member states should show solidarity with each other where necessary and the commission should assist them in doing so in order to ensure that the funds from this fund are spent in the fairest and most transparent way.
‒ the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) was created to provide additional support to workers affected by the consequences of major structural changes in world trade flows. the annual budget available for the egf in 2015 amounts to eur 150 million, of which, in accordance with article 11 (1) of the egf regulation, 0,5% (eur 811,825 in 2015) may be made available, on the initiative of the commission, for technical assistance to finance a range of activities ranging from preparation, monitoring, data collection and development of basic knowledge to audit, control and evaluation activities necessary for the implementation of the egf regulation. the report proposes to mobilise eur 630.000, representing approximately 0,39% of the maximum annual budget available for the egf in 2015, to finance the expert group of egf contact persons and the egf implementation seminar. it is important to increase general awareness of the egf and its visibility and to enhance communication between all parties involved in the application for mobilisation of the egf, in particular the social partners and stakeholders at regional and local level, all with a view to achieving the greatest possible synergies. in the light of the above, i supported the report by mr depreza on the proposal for a decision of the european parliament and of the council on the mobilisation of the egf in the field of cooperation on budgetary matters and sound financial management.
written. ‒ i support the report of the european globalisation adjustment fund to provide support to workers and help them reintegrate into the labour market. as a general rule, the egf may be mobilised only if more than 500 workers become redundant in one undertaking (including its suppliers and downstream producers) or a large number of workers are made redundant in a particular sector in one or more neighbouring regions. as all the conditions for their realisation are met, i support the proposed amount of eur 630 000, which represents approximately 0,39% of the maximum annual budget available for the egf in 2015. in order to maximise the functioning and implementation of the measures, it is important to exchange information on the egf, to work on standardising the procedures for submitting applications to mobilise the egf and to allow for greater flexibility during the payment period.
written. ‒ i support the report on the proposal for a decision of the european parliament and of the council on the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund, in accordance with point 13 of the interinstitutional agreement of 2 december 2013 between the european parliament, the council and the commission on budgetary discipline, on cooperation in budgetary matters and on sound financial management (egg/2015/000 ta request technical assistance at the initiative of the commission). the european globalisation adjustment fund was created to provide additional assistance to workers suffering from the consequences of major structural changes in world trade patterns. the fund shall not exceed a maximum annual amount of eur 150 million. on 15 april 2015, the commission adopted a new proposal for a decision to mobilise the egf. this appropriation is intended to cover the financing of the european schools in the member states and the european schools in the union. the objective of technical assistance is to finance monitoring, information and to create a knowledge base. the commission will collect data on applications received and on proposing and implementing measures, as well as regularly update and extend the egf websites set up by the commission in the framework of employment and social affairs. in addition, the commission will organise networking among member states through two seminars to be organised by the implementing bodies of this fund from the member states.
written. ‒ while i fully support measures that create jobs and stimulate economic growth and investment, i share the same view as in my previous comments on the mobilisation of egf funds. i consider that this allocation of resources cannot achieve the ultimate objective of reintegrating workers into the labour market and providing effective support to those affected by the consequences of structural changes in trade flows. i consider the mobilisation of the funds and the estimated costs, which provide for additional administrative and technical assistance in the implementation of the programme alone, amounting to eur 70 000, to be an unnecessary strengthening of the bureaucratic apparatus and i fear that this would only produce a lack of interest in helping the workers made redundant and that the effects of solidarity action would disappear altogether. i say again that all measures to reduce unemployment, especially youth unemployment, but i say no to their implementation at the expense of long-term effects.
written. ‒ i voted against the motion for a resolution of the european parliament on the revision of the economic governance framework: review of the state of play and challenges, mainly because this report is already outdated in relation to the current political situation. the commission has also been asked to present a report on the implementation of the new financial perspective for the period 2007-13. convinced that only 'more europe' can contribute to a more stable monetary system and guarantee a prosperous european economy, i wanted to express precisely this ambition to create a stronger europe by voting against.
written. ‒ i supported the report by ms berès on the revision of the economic governance framework. we want a europe that inspires and leads, and without good economic governance, solidarity and partnership, we cannot achieve that. good economic governance is the foundation of growth, development and employment. without good economic governance, neither the new european fund for strategic investments, nor cohesion policy, nor agricultural policy can succeed in the long term. success and development require a combination of measures: investment, structural reforms and smart fiscal consolidation. the existing economic governance framework needs to be strengthened, national parliaments need to be more closely involved and recommendations need to be implemented more decisively. europe is moving in the right direction, the new commission is making positive changes, and is working hard to strengthen the single market and monetary, economic, financial and fiscal union. the exchange of knowledge and experience will help all, the less developed member states to converge faster and the developed to become even more innovative, creative and competitive on the world market.
written. ‒ convergence is, by common definition, a process, or a particular circumstance of gradually approaching a point in space or time. common eu policies (such as the common agricultural policy) should lead to this desired convergence. however, today we are aware of the opposite process of divergence, not between politics and economics but between people, citizens of the european union, and those who are poor and those who are rich, with the poor becoming poorer and the rich becoming richer. the report states that the crisis has highlighted the existence of fundamental problems and unsustainable economic developments in many european countries and has unequivocally demonstrated the interdependence of the eu economies. the economies of the member states depend on each other and it is in each other's interest to help each other in order to achieve together the desired goal of maintaining europe's status as the best place to live in the world. although this report concerns the euro area, and croatia is outside the euro area, with a clearly expressed desire and intention to become a member of the euro area and has pegged its currency to the euro and is implementing austerity measures, i expect that this desired convergence at all levels will contribute to a better life for the citizens of my country, who are today among the poorest in europe. unfortunately, some european policies, along with the indifference and incompetence of the current authorities, sometimes actively contribute to this poverty.
written. ‒ the signatories of the report clearly see the 'euro as more than a currency', but to remain successful and stable as a political and economic project, it needs a stronger, fairer and more democratic legitimacy base. the crisis surrounding the repayment of greece's debt and its future (within or outside the eurozone and the eu) is the best proof that the measures taken in 2008 when the crisis was just beginning are far from being completed. i agree with the view that we need to simplify, improve, supplement and amend the existing set of rules in order to encourage investment and achieve sustainable development. i am pleased that the new parliament's guidelines go further and advocate maintaining the social dimension by defining a minimum wage, encouraging a more effective fight against tax evasion, but what is particularly interesting is that they propose abolishing the notorious troika and replacing it with a more efficient model. it is interesting to note how different the cameron and juncker calendars are for the obviously inevitable treaty changes. the british prime minister wants a new deal before the announced referendum in 2017, while the commission president announces the possibility of such a deal after that year. i think there may also be growing dilemmas about the future relationship between the euro area and the single market. overall, the completion of european economic and monetary union will not be possible without a new generation of far-reaching political decisions on the future of the eu in the 21st century.
written. ‒ i support the report by ms pervenche berès on the revision of the economic governance framework to assess whether the commission and the member states of the union are applying the governance rules in an effective and uniform manner. this review provided a good opportunity to exchange views, in particular with the competent committees of the european parliament, on the operational rules of the framework and on ways to increase the efficiency and democratic nature of the framework and its social dimension, in particular with regard to the achievement of the europe 2020 objectives. the fact is that the total debt of the 28 member states of the union has decreased from 4,5% of gdp in 2011 to a projected 3% of gdp in 2014, but the economic balance over the cycle should more effectively promote smart, sustainable and inclusive growth, which has been modest or stagnating in recent years and is expected to remain below 1,5% of union gdp growth. in pursuing that objective, member states should implement the recommendations received from the commission to support sustainable growth through better, sustainable jobs and social cohesion and to make progress towards the europe 2020 targets. the number of unemployed young people in the union (21%) is particularly worrying. the republic of croatia is among the leading countries in this scale with 45%, therefore more effective implementation of the youth employment initiative across the union is needed.
written. ‒ the commission forecasts that the economy should grow in 2015 after a negative growth in the past two years. although the economy is recovering, the output gap is still large and there are large differences between member states in debt ratios, unemployment rates, current account positions. it is necessary to avoid detrimental effects on the whole of the economic and monetary union. the commission notes that the commission has not provided any information on the level of the compensation for the costs of the restructuring of the bank. however, the introduction of a european investment plan to stimulate new investment of eur 315 billion should prevent the damage of the investment gap. in line with all of the above, i support the report on the revision of the economic governance framework.
written. ‒ i support this report as the commission's autumn forecasts expect gdp to grow by 0.8% in 2014 and 1.1% in 2015 after two consecutive years of unexpected negative gdp growth in the euro area, which would mean that the growth rate this year will not reach the pre-crisis level. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's macro-financial assistance to the countries of central and eastern europe, in particular through the european neighbourhood instrument (eni) and the european neighbourhood instrument (eni) and the european neighbourhood instrument (eni) and the european neighbourhood instrument (eni) and the european neighbourhood instrument (eni) and the european neighbourhood instrument (eni) and the european neighbourhood instrument (eni) and the european neighbourhood instrument (eni) and the european neighbourhood instrument (eni) and the european neighbourhood instrument (eni) and the european neighbourhood instrument (eni) and the european neighbourhood instrument (eni) and the european neighbourhood instrument (eni) and the european neighbourhood instrument (eni) and the european neighbourhood instrument (eni) and the european neighbourhood instrument (eni) and the european neighbourhood instrument (eni) for growth (eni). the current economic situation requires urgent, comprehensive and decisive measures to respond to the risk of deflation or very low inflation, weak growth and high unemployment. i believe that there is a great need for less complexity, more accountability, more transparency and democracy in economic governance, and that the path to greater integration cannot be achieved by adding a set of new rules to existing ones. furthermore, the eurogroup decision-making process should be reassessed in order to ensure appropriate democratic accountability and transparency.
written. ‒ i agree that the current economic situation requires urgent and comprehensive measures, but i believe that the provisions that stakeholders are calling for to strengthen the economic and monetary union by strengthening the tax union will not achieve better economic governance and will only burden the already large administration by adding a set of rules to the existing ones. the legislative activity of the european institutions so far shows that the accumulation of regulatory bureaucracy only makes it more tedious and inefficient. i believe that giving more powers to the commission in creating and directing fiscal flexibility creates an additional burden and prevents member states from taking full responsibility and accepting recommendations that can stimulate economic growth in a single country and the construction of a single market. we must be aware that the increasing internal differences in gdp growth rates between member states also require completely different approaches, which the current complex economic governance framework does not allow, nor does it allow, for different responses to different fiscal situations. that is why i abstained.
mr president, i want to thank you for the words you expressed on our behalf a moment ago, but i would like to take this opportunity to propose on behalf of the alde club that we try to adopt a joint resolution on srebrenica on the basis of rule 152 (1). i propose that on thursday morning, since we have enough time, we open a debate and, as we usually do in many resolutions, that we commemorate the victims of srebrenica, commemorate all the victims in the former yugoslavia and open up the western balkan countries to a new perspective, just as you, mr president, said in your opening speech. we need a resolution and the world needs a resolution from this parliament.
mr. president, it is the desire of the alde group that srebrenica and the tragedy of srebrenica be commemorated with dignity in this house. just like you did, mr. president, with your speech. we want to take your speech and the thoughts of our other colleagues and colleagues who are here, who want to commemorate the victims of srebrenica and all the other victims that have happened in the western balkans, who want to see the countries of the western balkans in this house as soon as possible. we want such a resolution and i call on all colleagues to support this motion and to make it the first item on the agenda on thursday morning.
mr president, to get out of this crisis that has been going on for too long in the member states of the european union, and in particular in some of the eu member states, we need strong investment in the real sector. no financial manipulation or transaction will solve the problem of our economy, except investing in the real sector and of course, first of all, allowing smes to have access to real capital and in this way, investing in the real sector really becomes visible. it is the only way we can say that we will be out of this situation tomorrow, that we can create new jobs, especially for young people, and i support this framework of the single capital market as one of those frameworks that will allow us to invest in the real sector, in small and medium-sized enterprises, and create new jobs.
mr president, i would like to start by expressing my strong support for the commission in this document and for the proposals we are awaiting and, of course, for the rapporteur who has already given us a number of very high-quality details. however, i also want to make a few points and mention that first of all, i think we need to be very aware of the problems of cross-border cooperation, or rather, cross-border waste and resource use. this is the problem we face in the european union, because we don't have the same situation in the member states, we don't have similar policies, and i ask that cross-border cooperation be seriously included in this report and in the commission's thinking. i also expect the possibilities of the candidate countries and potential candidates to be included because we have a lot of pollution, among other things, and because of the non-involvement of these countries in the eu processes and, of course, the involvement of local and regional authorities.
mr president, what is definitely a common feature of the milk market in the european union is the obvious crisis. obviously a large milk production, larger than the market demand. however, the remedy for this situation on the eu milk market is not the same in every country. i'm sure there are various medications that can be found to resolve this condition. speaking and coming from croatia whose milk production is also in crisis, i am convinced that if the milk producers were to be strongly stimulated in terms of processing milk into a higher level of product and if this were the policy of the eu, croatia and the local regional authorities, as i tried to do in istria at the time, then we could get results. finally, in some other countries, perhaps something similar can be done in the fisheries sector, to discourage milk production, or to encourage the conversion of production to something else.
madam president, commissioner, i welcome this report by mr nicholson, who speaks out against the pressing problems in the dairy sector. this sector is the most sensitive sector in agriculture and therefore deserves special attention. the commission considers that the aid is compatible with the internal market if it is granted in accordance with the rules on state aid. producers have high costs of producing energy products and prices are volatile. in the end, the cost of production often exceeds the selling price of milk, leading to the ruin of small family farms. if we add to this the unfair trade practices and the russian embargo faced by milk producers, then it is clear that targeted measures and a crisis programme are needed. i call on the commission to adopt a crisis programme because without it the milk producers will be in an even worse position and the milk buyers and the big corporations will gain more power. the commission notes that the milk levy is not a direct or indirect taxation of milk, but rather a taxation of milk products. this is important because in many areas with difficult production, mountain and island areas, milk production is the only source of income and employment for the family and the continuation of milk production is important to avoid leaving the land and to enable young people to stay in the countryside.
the abolition of milk quotas has been met with great reservations and visible concern by a large number of small producers, who fear that such a move will lead to a decline in the competitiveness of their production in relation to the large production structures in the dairy industry. i share their concern, not because i think the quota system is particularly good, but because i believe that we have not done nearly enough to ensure a level playing field for small producers. the rapporteur is moving in the right direction with his recommendation to encourage short supply chains and to favour local production, especially in the case of island and outermost regions. i also think it is very important that member states give their small milk producers maximum support in informing and educating them to make better use of the money from the european funds.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, these days we are marking the 20th anniversary of the terrible crime that took place in srebrenica, the worst crime that took place in europe after the second world war. in a few days, in those days of july, bosnian serb forces killed about 8,000 thousand bosniaks, adult men, boys and children in the zone that was protected by the united nations and with the presence of the united nations forces. today, here in the european parliament, we pay tribute to the victims and express our solidarity with their loved ones. but for the future, it is important that the truth be established, that responsibility be acknowledged and that those who committed crimes be brought to justice, because this is the prerequisite for understanding, for trust, for cooperation and, above all, for reconciliation. the european parliament must therefore have no sympathy for attempts to avoid a clear-cut speech on srebrenica and i welcome today's decision to open a debate and adopt a resolution on srebrenica on thursday.
madam president, there is no doubt that public-private partnership can give very good results, can give good effects, especially when we are talking about modern infrastructure. there are, of course, negative examples, and there are situations which have not produced ideal results or even caused some projects to run into problems. however, commissioner, please take the initiative and look at a project that is in the drawers of the european commission, and it concerns croatia. it concerns the construction of the istrian ipsilon, a road traffic direction in istria, croatia, which is being built on the basis of a public-private partnership, croatian and french company bouygues. there is no reason for this project to stand still, not to be realized to the end, because we absolutely need the construction and completion of the istrian road ipsilon, so in this context i ask you to really take on the obligation to look and help that this project is not blocked in the drawers of the european commission.
madam president, europe must strive to develop quality public services within its borders, but also with its international partners. improving the quality of life of citizens must be one of our top priorities, and the only way to achieve this, along with the mandatory accountability for the management of taxpayers' money, is to encourage private capital to enter public interest projects. the growing external debt of most countries and the evident lack of money for infrastructure projects open up the space for the popularisation of public-private partnerships both within and outside the european union. the promotion of this model in partner countries is an opportunity for european smes to expand their business and increase exports of goods and services. i therefore call on the commission to ensure that, in all trade agreements that the european union signs with third countries, our companies are treated equally in public procurement procedures and have open access to public-private partnerships.
madam president, first of all i would like to congratulate mr nunu melu on his excellent report and i share his view that it is necessary to simplify the european and national procedures for setting up producer organisations and also to reduce the administrative burden imposed on them. it is also important to increase the overall level of support to producer organisations and to give greater incentives for their establishment, because the purpose of association is greater competition and higher earnings for farmers, and as far as we can see the realisation of this objective is still lacking. the organisation rate remains low and producer organisations are small and only a limited number of fruit and vegetable producers are members of producer organisations. therefore, most producers are excluded from the direct benefits provided by the european union scheme, while on the other hand, imports of fruit and vegetables are increasing, and domestic fruit and vegetable producers are exposed to unfair competition and unfair trading practices. the procedure is too complicated, the same situation is in croatia, so i call on the ministry of agriculture to adopt a national programme and provide croatian farmers with a better regime.
madam president, mr rapporteur, i would like to draw your attention to two elements that you have mentioned in your report and which are particularly close to my heart. i am not saying that the commission should not be involved in this, but i am saying that it should be involved in the negotiations. i would like you to include in this, in any case, authenticity, that is, indigenousness, that is, protected european products in the fruit and vegetable sector, that is, their originality. i think that's something that europe can play a strong hand at as a winning card. and the other subject is young. it's great that you want to involve young people in the agricultural sector. i think it's a great need for us to have a really good future for our agriculture, as it has been so far.
madam president, honourable commissioner bulc, honourable colleagues, first of all i would like to thank mr koch for his excellent cooperation in the preparation of this document. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the trans-european networks are fully operational. the first is to use the modern information technology available to us to make it possible to book and buy tickets quickly and easily for different modes of transport, which should complement each other rather than unfairly compete. in this way, through computer eco-innovation, we will create new jobs. the second reason is direct savings in energy consumption, which allows the transport sector to contribute very quickly to the climate and energy objectives of the european union in a sustainable way and at an acceptable cost. the third reason is to protect the rights of citizens of the european union by issuing a single travel card and achieving mobility as a prerequisite for the exercise of their fundamental freedoms.
madam president, madam commissioner, i know your job is not easy, and thank you for joining us at this late hour. it is important that you are here because it means a kind of guarantee that the commission will really try to put this multimodal integrated ticketing and airline ticketing system into place. what i would like to warn the honourable mrs bulc about is tourism, as a sector which is of great importance to many countries of the european union, especially those in the south of the european union, and it is in this area, if we manage to do a good job, that i think tourism will really become even more competitive. so i think it's very important that we have a fair and honest approach to ticket prices. it's a lot easier to do that on the internet these days. it's important to include public transport in this story, and on the other hand, i want to invite you to share good practices within the european union.
madam president, the creation of a free trade zone between europe and the united states of america carries with it unprecedented economic potential. but it is not to be shunned that it also brings challenges and even threats to the european way of life. by pretending that these challenges and threats do not exist we are opening the door to the fears of our citizens, but also to those irresponsible individuals and groups who very opportunely use such intense feelings for their own political gain, without regard for the general progress. so i think that in this particular home, we should be working on reducing tension instead of creating it. i will personally do everything in my power to objectively inform the citizens of croatia about all aspects of this agreement, and i would like to see the same approach from other fellow mps. this is about our future and the future of our children. let us not be quick to dismiss it, but let us be uncritical in observing how others create it for us.
madam president, i understand today's debate as a debate on a resolution that was brought by the inta committee and that is to help negotiators on the way forward on this very important agreement. i think we europeans should not miss this opportunity, but of course we are sensitive, our citizens want to know more information. it is up to us parliamentarians who have the right to see the documents - i have visited the room where the documents can be read - to make our citizens transparent about what is going on because the greatest fear is in ignorance. ignorance always gives rise to this kind of opposition. so i'm all for taking care of gmo products, public services, water, medical services - all the things that are pressing on our citizens, especially the employees and the labor market. so i think we need to give the negotiators support, that this is a strategic agreement - it's not just trade, it's going to remove some tariffs, but it's going to bring a lot more to europe, to small and medium-sized enterprises, to jobs. so i'm for a deal, but, of course, with equal negotiation with the americans.
written. the ttip debate is not a debate that will immediately result in a vote, but it is a debate in the european parliament today to send a clear message to the european commission about our positions. ttip is basically a document that wants to regulate through legal mechanisms what has been on the scene for years: globalization! it's important to keep in mind that globalization is happening, and we don't have legal regulations that will follow the reality of the times in which we live. ttip is also an opportunity for many companies, large and small, that have competing products and services. i believe that croatian companies will also have their interest in the new even larger market because it has been shown that the entry into the european union has opened a huge market for our companies that have significantly increased exports. as the market of the european union member states has become an opportunity that is successfully exploited to increase employment in croatia, so it can be with the new large market that offers entry to the us market. there's also a new attraction that tourism is gaining. what we definitely need to regulate through ttip is the protection of european interests ranging from agricultural policy and environmental protection to public sector interests and cultural policy. in this context, the european commission should take into account these specificities in its negotiations with the usa in all its negotiations.
written. ‒ i supported the appointment of bettina michelle jakobsen as a member of the court of auditors because i consider her to be a competent and moral person who has all the qualifications to perform this important job. ms jakobsen has worked as an auditor for the danish government and nato, and has useful experience in the public administration sector. in conclusion, the appointment will correct the gender balance of the members of the court.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the european parliament's motion for a decision on the proposed appointment of ms bettina michelle jakobsen as a member of the court of auditors on the grounds that she has demonstrated in her professional experience the expertise and competence to perform the said function. ms michelle jakobsen's extensive experience in public sector auditing and her professional background guarantee a remarkable and high-quality contribution and commitment to the work of the court. it is of the utmost importance that the court of auditors fully respects the principles of independence and objectivity because of the importance it represents for the whole of the european union, and i believe that mrs michelle jakobsen, as a member of the court, will be successful in this.
‒ mr igor scholtes, member of the european parliament, and the committee on budgetary control have approved the appointment of a new member of the court of auditors, the danish candidate bettine michelle jakobsen. i supported the rapporteur's opinion as ms jakobsen has all the qualifications for this post acquired during her education and extensive professional experience in audit management and public finance. in the hearing, ms jakobsen stated that responsible governance by governments and other public sector bodies is a key part of a culture of good financial management. with support to continue in the future with this attitude, congratulations!
written. ‒ i support the motion for a decision on the proposed appointment of bettina michelle jakobsen as a member of the court of auditors on the basis of her extensive professional experience, which serves as the best evidence of why she has been nominated for this high office. the same opinion was expressed by the committee on budgetary control on 17 june 2015 when the council's candidate for membership of the court of auditors was heard and assessed positively.
‒ a hearing of the council's candidate for membership of the court of auditors took place at the meeting of the committee on budgetary control on 17 june 2015. the committee on budgetary control assessed the qualifications of the proposed candidate as excellent, as indicated by the unanimous support of the committee for her appointment. the proposed candidate shall have an enviable professional experience in the three main types of public sector audit financial audit, compliance audit and performance audit. she was employed by the international board of auditors for nato in brussels, the first woman to hold that position. she has also been a representative of the international organisation of supreme audit institutions and is currently the candidate chair of the professional standards committee of intosai and is working on the development of international standards for supreme audit institutions aimed at promoting independent and effective audit performance. he also has experience as a member of three international audit committees the audit committee of the council of europe in strasbourg, the audit committee of the european investment fund and the audit committee of the european investment bank in luxembourg. in the light of the above, i support the appointment of ms betinne michelle jakobsen as a member of the court of auditors of the eu, as it is clear from her attached cv and the replies given at the hearing in the committee that she is an excellent professional.
written. ‒ i support this report on the appointment of bettine michell jakobsen as a member of the court of auditors in view of her professional and international experience and previous posts including financial audit, compliance audit, performance audit of regions and other posts which qualify her to perform the duties of a member of the court of auditors.
written. ‒ i support the report on the proposed appointment of bettine michelle jakobsen as a member of the court of auditors in view of her previous posts: - assistant auditor general (salary class 39), danish national audit office,- assistant auditor general (salary class 38), danish national audit office,- director (salary class 37), danish national audit office,- auditor, international board of auditors for nato, headquarters of nato, brussels, belgium,- special adviser, danish national audit office,- head of department, danish national audit office,- administrator, greek council of copenhagen. bettine michelle jakobsen was the first danish national to hold the position of auditor at the international board of auditors for nato in brussels. the post included financial audit, compliance audit and performance audit of various nato organisations and projects. it also included audits carried out on nato infrastructure programmes (nsip), which implied frequent travel to all nato member countries, a good knowledge of international auditing and accounting standards, knowledge of english and french as working languages, and significant practical and professional experience of working in an international organisation.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the proposed appointment of ms bettina michelle jakobsen as a member of the court of auditors, in view of her outstanding professional experience as well as her experience in conducting public sector audits. the court of auditors' reports are of great importance not only for the work of the european parliament and the committee on budgetary control but also for the beneficiaries of aid who need to be provided with relevant and timely information on the expenditure of eu funds and obligations in the execution and implementation of programmes and projects. i consider that the proposed candidate meets the conditions for appointment to the post of member of the court. i hereby express my support to it and call for its efforts to promote the independent and effective conduct of audits, full independence in the performance of its duties and the maintenance of a zero tolerance rate for fraud and corruption in order to build as strongly as possible good financial management practices.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the draft legislative resolution of the european parliament on the amended proposal for a regulation of the parliament and of the council laying down union procedures in the field of the common commercial policy in order to ensure the implementation of union law under international trade rules, in particular those established under the auspices of the world trade organisation, as the proposal aims at codifying existing texts without any substantive changes. simplification leads to clearer acts, which are thus more accessible to citizens and easier to find and understand. it is important to enable citizens to access their rights without difficulty and to reduce the need for research work.
written. ‒ on the proposal from the european commission to the european parliament and the council amending the regulation laying down union procedures in the field of the common commercial policy in order to ensure the enforcement of union law under international trade rules, in particular those established under the auspices of the world trade organisation, mr jiří maštálka, drawn up the opinion on behalf of the committee on legal affairs. since the legal services have approved the codification of the existing text and have confirmed that the amendments will not affect the content of the document, i have supported the opinion of mr maštálk that the amendments should be adopted.
written. ‒ the main objective of the negotiations is to put development at the heart of the world trading system. the conclusions of the negotiators should help to strengthen the capacity of developing countries to benefit from international trade and thus help them to fight poverty. the eu supported the launch of such a broad and ambitious round of negotiations because it seemed to be the only way to allow all participants to realize economic growth and the benefits of development, while accepting the trade-offs that necessarily follow. that's why i endorsed this report.
written. ‒ the objective of the european union mechanism in the field of the common commercial policy is to provide a procedural means when the institutions of the union are required to react to trade barriers imposed or applied by third countries which cause injury or have a detrimental effect on trade, provided that there is a right to act in respect of those barriers under the applicable international trade rules. the commission is required, in accordance with the amended proposal for this regulation, to act in relation to trade barriers imposed or applied by third countries, within the framework of the union's international rights and obligations, only where the union's interest is at stake. the commission has not received any comments from interested parties. i therefore support the rapporteur's proposal which seeks to ensure the exercise of the union's rights under international trade rules, in particular those established under the auspices of the world trade organisation, by defining the union's procedures in the area of the common commercial policy. the commission notes that the commission has not provided any evidence that the state aid granted to the company in question was compatible with the internal market.
written. ‒ the primary objectives of the eu and the world trade organisation (wto) are effective trade protection for all actors involved in international trade. it is indisputable that the common commercial policy must be based on uniform principles. in addition to the detailed european regulation in this area, particular emphasis is placed on the rules established under the auspices of the world trade organisation and those laid down in the annexes to the wto agreement. the purpose of amending the regulation laying down community procedures in the field of the common commercial policy is to establish more efficient procedures to ensure the effective exercise of all union rights in accordance with international trade rules and therefore this regulation is of particular political importance for market freedoms within the eu. the abovementioned procedures shall apply in particular during the initiation and conduct of international dispute settlement procedures in the field of the common commercial policy. the objective of this regulation is also to ensure an effective response to trade barriers affecting the eu market with a view to eliminating the injury caused and to trade barriers affecting third countries' markets with a view to eliminating the adverse trade effects caused. in view of the above, i support the amended proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council laying down community procedures in the field of the common commercial policy.
written. ‒ i support the report on the amended proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council laying down union procedures in the field of the common commercial policy in order to ensure the enforcement of the union's rights under international trade rules, in particular those established under the auspices of the world trade organisation, as the proposal is adapted to the opinions and recommendations of the legal advisory services of the european commission, the parliament and the council.
written. ‒ i support the draft report on the amended proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council laying down union procedures in the field of the common commercial policy in order to ensure the enforcement of the union's rights under international trade rules, in particular those established under the auspices of the world trade organisation (codified text). the advisory working group composed of the legal services of the european parliament, the council and the commission met on 26 february 2015 to examine the commission proposal. at that meeting, the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council codifying council regulation (ec) no 3286/94 of 22 december 1994 laying down community procedures in the field of the common commercial policy in order to ensure the exercise of the community's rights under international trade rules, in particular those under the auspices of the world trade organisation, was examined. the advisory working group concluded that the proposal is simply to encrypt existing texts without changing their substance.
written. ‒ to ensure trade protection for the international market and for third country markets, continuous work is needed to harmonise and modify the principles that protect the common trade policy, while adapting them to international trade flows. i would like to stress that the commission, as guardian of the treaty, must act consistently in relation to trade barriers and monitor the application of european law, and within the framework of international rights and obligations, when the union's interest is threatened, prevent harmful effects or remedy the consequences of damage caused by adverse effects on trade. however, since this is a direct codification of the text of the regulation on union action in the field of the common commercial policy, without any change in the substance, i voted in favour.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the draft legislative resolution of the european parliament on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the protection of vessels against injurious pricing, as the codification does not change the substance of the acts but makes them clearer and more accessible to citizens. the european union must make its legal acts easier and more effective to find and understand, and codification is a step in that direction. in this context, i support the agreement which allows for an accelerated procedure for the rapid adoption of codified acts and for the involvement of the commission staff in the codification of acts after a maximum of ten amendments. the scattered nature of the provisions in the various acts leads to the need for rapid adoption of codified acts in order to make the provisions more accessible and more certain.
written. ‒ on a proposal from the european commission to the european parliament and the council amending the regulation on protection against injurious pricing of vessels, mr jiří maštálka drew up an opinion on behalf of the committee on legal affairs. this regulation defines the rules for determining the price of a vessel which causes damage to the buyer and for compensating the yard for any vessel with an injuriously priced price whose sale to a buyer outside the country of origin of the vessel causes damage. i supported the report as it is a codification of the text without substantial changes, approved by the advisory groups of the legal services of the european parliament, the council and the commission.
‒ council regulation no 385/96/eec on protection against injurious pricing of vessels was adopted on 29 january 1996 and has been amended several times. the commission established as early as 1987 the rule that after a dozen amendments to a given act, it must be codified, thus contributing to greater certainty of the correct application of the act. the basic regulation was amended in the part concerning the framework of the shipbuilding agreement which established that due to the specific characteristics of ship purchase transactions, countervailing and anti-dumping duties are not applied in practice. the need to provide effective means of protection against the injurious sale of vessels below their normal value has led to the establishment of the harmful pricing code for shipbuilding, which together with the basic principles constitutes annex iii to the shipbuilding agreement. in order to maintain the balance of rights and obligations established by the shipbuilding agreement, the union hereby takes action against any injuriously priced vessel whose sale below normal value causes injury to the union industry. as this is an act whose role is to protect against harmful pricing of vessels, and in the interests of croatian shipbuilding as well as the need for the correct application of this act both in the eu and among the stakeholders to which this regulation has legal effect, i consider the proposed codification necessary as it contributes to greater legal certainty.
written. ‒ the purpose of this proposal is to codify council regulation (ec) no 385/96 on protection against injurious pricing of vessels. this proposal transposes the content of the acts to be codified in full and merges them into a single act, with only those formal amendments necessary for the codification. this regulation was preceded by the establishment of the harmful pricing code for shipbuilding, which provided an effective means of protection against the sale of vessels below their normal value. the commission has not received any comments from interested parties on the application of the measures in force. i therefore support the rapporteur's proposal that the european union should take measures to protect the buyer from the harmful pricing of vessels and, indirectly, the european union's economy. the commission shall be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 26 to supplement this regulation by laying down detailed rules for the application of this regulation. in order to give life to the regulation in its implementation, i see great importance in the implementation of appropriate adjustments to price differences affecting price comparability, including differences in terms and conditions of sale, contractual penalties, taxes, level of sales, quantities, physical characteristics and any other differences also affecting price comparability.
written. ‒ the examination of the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council codifying council regulation (ec) no 385/96 of 29 january 1996 on protection against injurious pricing of vessels led the advisory working party to the unanimous conclusion that this proposal constitutes a straightforward codification of existing texts without substantial changes. the importance of this regulation lies in its contribution to the smooth running of trade in vessels and to the protection of the union manufacturing industry in the economically important field of shipbuilding, as well as to consumer protection as an important value that the eu is keen to promote. i therefore support this proposal because i believe that this regulation is extremely necessary.
written. ‒ i agree with the report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the protection of vessels against injurious pricing, as the proposal is adapted to the opinions and recommendations of the legal advisory services of the european commission, the parliament and the council.
written. ‒ i support the draft report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the protection of ships against injurious pricing (codified text). having regard to the interinstitutional agreement of 20 december 1994 on an accelerated working method for the official codification of legislative texts, and in particular point 4 thereof, the consultative working group consisting of the legal services of the european parliament, the council and the commission met on 14 october and 13 november 2014 and considered, inter alia, the above proposal submitted by the commission. at those meetings, consideration of the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council codifying council regulation (ec) no 385/96 of 29 january 1996 on protection against injurious pricing of vessels led the advisory working party to the unanimous conclusion that the proposal constitutes a straightforward codification of the existing texts without any substantive changes.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the proposal for a regulation on the protection of vessels against injurious pricing, which also constitutes a direct codification of existing texts without any substantial changes. shipbuilding is a sector that requires continuous technological development and innovation as fundamental prerequisites for growth in competitiveness. as a representative from a country where shipping and shipbuilding have a long tradition and where shipbuilding is a very important industrial sector with exports of 10% to 15%, i am a particularly strong supporter of the shipbuilding agreement.
written. ‒ i support this recommendation of the mep, and it concerns the activities of vessels flying the flag of venezuela that have been carried out for several decades. the proposal provides for an appropriate legal basis and the authorised vessels must comply with the legal provisions; from the stocks of the target fish, the types of fishing gear, vessel tracking devices, catch reporting, as well as the share of catches that must be landed in french guiana ports.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the recommendation for a draft council decision on the approval, on behalf of the european union, of the declaration on the granting of fishing opportunities in eu waters to fishing vessels flying the flag of the bolivarian republic of venezuela in the exclusive economic zone off the coast of french guiana, as a long-standing fisheries agreement in this area already existed and only needed to be legally adapted from the point of view of community law. the commission has also received a request from the french guiana authorities to provide additional information on the fishing activities in the economic zone of french guiana.
written. ‒ i supported the report by mr ferriere approving the declaration on the granting of fishing opportunities in eu waters to fishing vessels flying the flag of the bolivarian republic of venezuela in the exclusive economic zone off the coast of french guiana. the 2008 regulation authorising fishing by third country vessels presupposes the existence of an international fisheries agreement, but the eu has not concluded such an agreement with venezuela due to institutional conflicts. the eu has also provided a number of technical assistance to the venezuelan authorities in the area of fisheries management, including the establishment of a fisheries management plan, the establishment of a fisheries management plan and the establishment of a fisheries management plan.
written. ‒ the european union hereby authorises fishing in eu waters by fishing vessels flying the flag of the bolivarian republic of venezuela in the economic zone off the coast of french guiana. the eu has no international fisheries agreement with venezuela, so access for venezuelan vessels operating in eu waters off the coast of french guiana was guaranteed by a council declaration which was annulled by the european court of justice on 26 november 2014 due to a disagreement over the legal basis of the act. the fishing opportunities set out in this regulation are based on the catch reporting system established by the international commission for the conservation of atlantic tunas (ices) and the international commission for the conservation of atlantic tunas (ices) and are in line with the principles of the common fisheries policy. the fishing vessels flying the flag of the bolivarian republic of venezuela are restricted to activities exclusively in the economic zone off the coast of french guiana and are obliged to comply with the rules of the common fisheries policy of the european union, i.e. the conservation and control of measurements and other provisions relating to fishing in that area, including limitations on the maximum number and proportion of catches. i supported this proposal because of the economic importance of fishing and the reciprocity for the people of venezuela and french guiana, but also because of the trade relations between the eu and venezuela.
written. ‒ i support the proposal for a draft council decision on the approval, on behalf of the european union, of the declaration on the granting of fishing opportunities in eu waters to fishing vessels flying the flag of the bolivarian republic of venezuela in the exclusive economic zone off the coast of french guiana. given that the fishing and fishery processing industry is an important source of income for the population of french guiana and that this issue has not been adequately regulated by international law until now, although in practice access to vessels has been allowed, i agree with the rapporteur's proposal to adopt this declaration.
written. ‒ the processing industry based in french guiana depends in part on the exploitation of living natural resources in its exclusive economic zone (eez) by venezuelan vessels. the commission has also concluded that the measure is compatible with the internal market within the meaning of article 107 (3) (c) of the treaty. thus, a large proportion of the local population is employed in this activity. the commission has also received comments from the union and from the member states on the application of the union's macro-financial assistance to the venezuelan economy. the commission has also taken into account the fact that the fishing opportunities granted to the vessels concerned are limited to the minimum necessary to ensure that the fishing opportunities granted to the vessels concerned are not exceeded. i believe that the approval process for this draft should be completed as soon as possible. the commission notes that the measures provided for in this decision are in accordance with the opinion of the committee established by article 15 (1) of regulation (eu) no 182/2011. i support this bill.
written. ‒ i support the recommendation on the draft council decision granting fishing opportunities in eu waters to fishing vessels flying the flag of the bolivarian republic of venezuela in the exclusive economic zone off the coast of french guiana, as this is exclusively a matter of legalising the legal agreement between the bolivarian republic of venezuela and the european union. the fisheries sector in this zone is the main source of employment and income and the main contributor to economic development. i believe that for these reasons this proposal should be adopted, as it is a matter of formally confirming the agreement between the european union and venezuela that has existed for decades in the form of mutual understanding, which is important for the economic development in the economic zone along the coast of french guiana.
written. ‒ i support the draft council decision on the approval, on behalf of the european union, of the declaration on the granting of fishing opportunities to eu fishing vessels flying the flag of the bolivarian republic of venezuela in the exclusive economic zone off the coast of french guiana. this agreement would allow vessels flying the flag of the bolivarian republic of venezuela fishing opportunities in eu waters within 12 nautical miles of the coast of french guiana. the agreement also has a positive impact on the economy and social activities of french guiana, as a significant amount of catches from vessels flying the flag of venezuela end up in french guiana fisheries and provide employment opportunities for french guiana fishermen.
written. ‒ i have supported this council declaration because i believe it is in line with the needs of french guiana, given that the processing industry of that department depends in part on the exploitation of the resources of vessels from venezuela in that economic zone. as this is an atypical fishing contract, the european court of justice ruled in 2014 that venezuelan vessels must fish in accordance with the common fisheries policy and respecting the sustainable exploitation of fisheries resources, and an additional condition is that they must leave part of the catch in french guiana ports, which i consider an important source of revenue for that department.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the proposal for a european parliament resolution on the council position on draft amending budget no 3/2015 of the european union for the financial year 2015. the entry of the surplus from the financial year 2014 as it allows the payment of draft amending budget no 5/2014 and no 7/2014 relating to the mobilisation of the eu solidarity fund. i also support the fact that the amending budget no 3/2015 will reduce the contribution of the member states from the gni to the union budget. the budget shall be amended in accordance with the principles of sound financial management and transparency, with a view to ensuring the stability and effectiveness of the financial mechanisms of the european union.
written. ‒ the draft amending budget aims to transfer the surplus of eur 1 435 million from the 2014 financial year to the 2015 budget. the report points out that this surplus is due to the positive realisation of revenue, the lower realisation of expenditure and the exchange rate differential. on the revenue side, the increase relates to two components, namely: interest and penalties and positive realisation of own funds. on the expenditure side, this concerns the non-use of part iii resources. however, it should be noted here that the amount at the other institutions is increased. the commission should also be able to use the appropriations entered in the budget for the 2015 financial year to finance the expenditure necessary for the implementation of the budget. it is necessary to emphasise that the council fulfils its obligations towards the countries that have qualified for the mobilisation of the eu solidarity fund not by mobilising additional funds as envisaged but by withholding funds from other programmes. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's macro-financial assistance to the countries of central and eastern europe, in particular through the european neighbourhood instrument (eni) and the european neighbourhood instrument (eni) and the european neighbourhood instrument (eni) and the european neighbourhood instrument (eni) and the european neighbourhood instrument (eni) and the european neighbourhood instrument (eni) and the european neighbourhood instrument (eni) and the european neighbourhood instrument (eni). in view of the above, i supported the draft budget amendment.
the commission shall be assisted by the european parliament and the council. the amount of assigned revenue in accordance with article 21 (3) of the financial regulation is estimated at eur 100000. the commission notes that the estimated budget allocation for the period from 1 january 2014 to 31 december 2015 was eur 22000000 (eur 22000000 in 2014) and that the estimated budget allocation for the period from 1 january 2015 to 31 december 2016 was eur 22000000 (eur 22000000 in 2014) and that the estimated budget allocation for the period from 1 january 2015 to 31 december 2016 was eur 22000000 (eur 22000000 in 2016) and eur 22000000 (eur 22000000 in 2017) respectively. the total contribution of the member states to the financing of the eu budget for 2015 will decrease in line with the budgetary surplus, which i certainly welcome. given that the commission adopted draft amending budget no 3/2015 on 15 april 2015 and that the council adopted its position on this draft amending budget on 19 june 2015 with 27 votes in favour, including the vote of croatia, and that the european parliament in its motion for a resolution accepts the council's position on this draft amending budget, i support this statement of the council's position on draft amending budget no 3/2015 of the european union for the financial year 2015 contribution of the surplus from the financial year 2014 and invite the commission, the council and parliament to adopt such amendments through a mutually constructive and rapid response triangle, thereby contributing to strengthening the links between the member states.
written. ‒ since the objective of draft amending budget no 3/2015 is to bring the surplus of eur 1 435 million from the financial year 2014 into the 2015 budget and that surplus is mainly due to the positive realisation of revenue of eur 1 183 million, the lower realisation of expenditure of eur 142 million and the current account deficit of eur 110 million, i support parliament's expressed readiness to adopt as soon as possible draft amending budget no 3/2015 and draft amending budget no 4/2015 in line with the commission's proposals. the commission has also taken note of the fact that the council has not adopted a decision on the budgetary procedure for the financial year 2015 and that the council has not adopted a decision on the budgetary procedure for the financial year 2015 and that the council has not adopted a decision on the budgetary procedure for the financial year 2016.
written. ‒ taking into account the eu budget regulations, it appears that the draft is intended to be entered in the budget as surplus resulting from the execution of the 2014 budget of eur 1 434 557 707,74, excluding the contributions of the european free trade association and the european economic area, which are therefore entered as revenue in the 2015 budget. the total contribution of the member states to the financing of the 2015 eu budget will be reduced in line with the budgetary surplus. the commission shall, by means of implementing acts, adopt the annual work programme for the financial year, including the annual work programme for the financial year, and the annual work programme for the financial year, including the annual work programme for the financial year, and the annual work programme for the financial year, including the annual work programme for the financial year, and the annual work programme for the financial year. it is recalled that during the negotiations on the 2015 budget, the council insisted that payments related to the mobilisation of the eu solidarity fund be transferred from draft amending budgets no 5/2014 and no 7/2014 to the 2015 budget for a total amount of eur 126,7 million. in view of the above, i support the proposed draft amendment.
written. ‒ i support the draft amending budget no 3/2015 surplus from the financial year 2014. i agree with the draft report cited above, according to which the surplus revenue from 2014 of eur 1 435 million will be transferred to the 2015 budget.
written. ‒ i support the above draft report, given that on the revenue side there are two main sources of increase: interest and penalties (eur 634 million), excess own resources (eur 479 million) and that the current shortfall in appropriations for payments is seen in the very high rate of non-use of title iii appropriations, which highlights the current shortfall in appropriations for payments which will continue to be a key challenge in the implementation of the 2015 budget. i must say that i do not agree with the fact that the council tends to fulfil its obligations towards countries in need of assistance and meeting the conditions for activating the eu solidarity fund by withholding money from other programmes rather than activating additional funds as provided for by the specific instruments. i would like to emphasise that the adoption of draft amending budget no 3/2015 will reduce the share of the member states' gni contribution to the union budget by eur 1 435 million and thus more than offset their contribution to the financing of draft amending budget no 4/2015.
written. ‒ i voted against because although the draft amending budget no 3 report provides for the return to the member states of the surplus, which is made up of late payments, penalties and positive realisations, on own resources from the financial year 2014, i cannot support politicization and efforts to reallocate funds at the expense of creating the budget for the following year. in particular, in the context of the 2015 budget negotiations, the council insisted on the transfer of payments related to the solidarity fund to draft amending budgets no 5 and no 7 for an amount of eur 126,7 million, which would have prevented the council from transferring payment claims from the solidarity fund to the 2016 budget negotiations. i support the draft budget, but without the proposed amendments and without politicization in the sense of gaining from the link and at the expense of other budget nomenclatures.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the council position report on draft amending budget no 4/2015 of the european union for the financial year 2015, annexed to the proposal to activate the european union solidarity fund for romania, bulgaria and italy, as i believe that there is an urgent need to help the countries where these natural disasters have caused great damage. the priority at this stage is to help and show solidarity with the affected regions in those countries and to express sympathy for the local population, and i therefore agree that the draft amending budget, as adopted by the commission and as described in the report, should be accepted.
the commission's draft amending budget proposal no 4 for 2015 includes the mobilisation of the european union solidarity fund to the amount of eur 66 505 850 in commitment and payment appropriations. the activation relates to two floods in romania, one in bulgaria and one in italy, and the proposal seeks to provide financial assistance to romania, bulgaria and italy in response to floods that occurred between april and november 2014. i believe that financial assistance is essential for member states affected by natural disasters to recover from all types of damage as quickly as possible and i welcome the commission's proposal. taking into account that the commission adopted and submitted to the council on 15 april 2015 draft amending budget no 4 for the general budget for 2015, the proposal for a decision of the european parliament and of the council on the activation of the eu solidarity fund (floods in romania, bulgaria and italy) and the position on draft amending budget no 4/2015 adopted by the council on 19 june 2015, and that the european parliament in its motion for a resolution accepts the position of the council, i support this report on the position of the council and express my satisfaction that the appropriations allocated will at least mitigate the severe consequences of the disasters on living conditions, the environment and the economy.
written. ‒ given that the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) was established to provide support and financial assistance to countries affected by natural disasters, and taking into account that the european union solidarity fund expresses solidarity with the population of regions affected by disasters, i support the decision to mobilise the european globalisation adjustment fund under the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2015 to provide the sum of eur 66 505 850 in commitment and payment appropriations in respect of the two floods that occurred in spring and summer 2014 in romania, and for the aid applications for a total of eur 8 495 950 and subsequent floods in russia that occurred in august and july 2014, which together amount to eur 983 600 in the aid applications for the 1st aid package and eur 56 026 300 in the aid applications for the 1st aid package in italy and november 2014. member states should show solidarity with each other where necessary and the commission should assist them in doing so in order to ensure that the funds from this fund are spent in the fairest and most transparent way.
written. ‒ given that the european union solidarity fund expresses solidarity with the population of regions affected by disasters, it is imperative that the fund provides financial assistance to countries affected by disasters. i therefore voted in favour of the report on the council position on draft amending budget no 4/2015 of the european union for the financial year 2015, concerning the mobilisation of the european union solidarity fund to the amount of eur 66 505 850 in commitment and payment appropriations in respect of the floods in romania, bulgaria and italy in the second half of 2014.
written. ‒ i support draft amending budget no 4/2015: activation of the european union solidarity fund for romania, bulgaria and italy, taking into account the crisis and difficult situation in the affected countries. members of the european union have committed themselves to show solidarity and provide financial assistance to countries experiencing natural disasters. i consider that the rapid assistance of the other member states is essential and of the utmost importance.
written. ‒ i support the above draft report as it concerns amendments to budget no 4/2015 relating to the mobilisation of the european union solidarity fund in the amount of eur 66 505 850 in appropriations for payments and commitments due to the floods in romania in spring and summer 2014, the floods in bulgaria in july/august 2014 and the floods in italy in october/autumn 2014. i would stress that during the negotiations on the 2015 budget, the council insisted that the payments related to the activation of the eu solidarity fund, totalling eur 126,7 million, be transferred from draft amending budgets no 5/2014 and no 7/2014 to the 2015 budget. i must say that i do not agree with the fact that the council tends to fulfil its obligations towards countries in need of assistance and eligible for the activation of the eu solidarity fund by withholding money from other programmes rather than activating additional funds as provided for by the specific instruments.
written. ‒ the solidarity fund provides financial assistance to countries affected by natural disasters or provides assistance for unforeseen regional disasters. the principles and procedures for the redistribution of funds are clear and i believe that we must adhere to the basic rules governing assistance from the fund. however, the amendment of the draft budget relating to the surplus of funds realised in the financial year 2014 seeks to transfer to the amendment of the draft budget relating to the mobilisation of the solidarity fund and covering payments in respect of two floods in romania and bulgaria and payments for floods in italy. despite the idea of allocating resources to help disaster-stricken areas, we must not depart from the requirement that the union retain budgetary limits for which there are clear provisions. finally, we must promote financial discipline to protect member states from unnecessarily high costs, especially for those countries with low gross national income. that's why i abstained.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a decision of the european parliament and of the council on the activation of the european union solidarity fund in accordance with point 11 of the interinstitutional agreement of 2 december 2013 between the european parliament, the council and the commission on budgetary discipline, on cooperation in budgetary matters and on sound financial management (floods in romania, bulgaria and italy), as i consider that the disasters that have affected the territories of the three countries concerned have indeed caused damage to public and private infrastructure, homes, agriculture, the economy and cultural heritage. the commission notes that the romanian authorities have not provided any information on the number of cases of non-compliance with the rules on the protection of personal data. the bulgarian region of severozapaden was also affected at almost the same time, and the italian regions of emilia-romagna, liguria, lombardy, piedmont and tuscany in autumn 2014. these natural disasters have caused great damage, and i therefore believe that the solidarity fund should be activated, and in this case the budget should be amended, in order to help the affected regions as quickly as possible and to make their progress as effective as possible.
‒ the european union solidarity fund was set up following the major floods in central europe in the summer of 2002 to help member states recover from the consequences of large-scale natural disasters. the fund has up to eur 500 million available per year. i support the report by mep siegfried mureșan on the activation of the fund in the amount of eur 66,5 million for assistance to romania, bulgaria and italy. the commission has also received a request from the member states to provide assistance to the commission in the event of major floods in the spring, summer and autumn of 2014. the republic of croatia, more precisely the eastern part, was also affected by floods in the spring of 2014. this year, the solidarity fund has allocated 8.9 million euros to help the area, but the money is intended for the rehabilitation of public infrastructure, but not family homes, of which more than 2,000 have been destroyed according to official figures. we are increasingly victims of elementary disasters that we cannot prevent, so we need to discuss and design preventive systems that would reduce the potential damage.
written. ‒ in late july last year, bulgaria and romania were hit by a major flood that took five lives. in november, a similar fate befell italy after a severe storm forced the evacuation of thousands of people who were left homeless. it is precisely situations like this, where people lose their loved ones and their homes, that require the existence of a fund that will respond quickly. at such times, people need compassion and solidarity, but first and foremost, material help. the european union solidarity fund (eusf) was therefore established to respond effectively to such unforeseeable situations. it was created in response to the floods in central europe in the summer of 2002, since then it has been used for 67 disasters including floods, forest fires, earthquakes, storms and droughts. the commission shall be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 26 to supplement this regulation by laying down detailed rules for the application of this regulation. the importance of this fund is also indisputable, as the consequences of the elementary disasters must be remedied as soon as possible to prevent further suffering of the victims. in view of all the above, and further encouraged by last year's catastrophic floods in croatia, when the assistance from this fund helped the inhabitants of the županja plain to rebuild that area of croatia, i supported this decision with the wish that the lives of the affected inhabitants of bulgaria, romania and italy be normalized as soon as possible.
written. ‒ following the approval of the amending budget no 4/2015, i support the decision to mobilise the european globalisation adjustment fund under the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2015 to provide the amount of eur 66 505 850 in commitment appropriations and payment appropriations in respect of the floods in rome in spring and summer 2014, for which the total aid applications amount to eur 8 495 950, july and august 2014 for which the total aid applications amount to eur 1 983 600, and the floods in italy in october and november 2014, for which the total aid applications amount to eur 56 026 300. the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) was established to provide support and financial assistance to countries affected by natural disasters. given that the european union solidarity fund expresses solidarity with the population of regions affected by disasters, member states should show solidarity with each other when necessary and the commission should assist them in doing so in order to spend the funds of this fund in the fairest and most transparent way.
written. ‒ i have supported the proposal of the european parliament and of the council for a decision to activate the european union solidarity fund for romania, bulgaria and italy. the commission has also proposed to mobilise the solidarity fund and to assess the damage caused by the disaster, as romania, bulgaria and italy have applied to activate the fund in response to the floods that affected them during 2014. the european union solidarity fund is hereby proposed to be mobilised in the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2015, to provide the sum of eur 66 505 850 in commitment and payment appropriations. the aim of this proposal is to show solidarity with the population affected by natural disasters. the importance of this kind of aid was seen last year in eastern croatia, which was also hit by severe flooding. at such times, it is essential to respond in an effective and flexible manner to respond in a timely manner to the needs of the vulnerable population. i believe that by deciding to activate the solidarity fund, the european parliament has once again confirmed its active role in humanitarian aid.
written. ‒ i agree with this report that the commission proposes to mobilise the european solidarity fund to help the affected areas in romania (spring and summer 2014), bulgaria (summer 2014) and italy (autumn 2014), all on the basis of point 11 of the interinstitutional agreement for which a thorough examination of all four requests has been carried out in accordance with council regulation (ec) no 2012/2002.
written. ‒ i support the draft report on the proposal for a decision of the european parliament and of the council on the activation of the european union solidarity fund in accordance with point 11 of the interinstitutional agreement of 2 december 2013 between the european parliament, the council and the commission on budgetary discipline, on cooperation in budgetary matters and on sound financial management (floods in romania, bulgaria and italy). romania - floods in spring: total direct damage amounted to eur 167,9 million; romania - summer floods: total direct damage, amounting to eur 171,9 million. the cost of the basic emergency operations was estimated by the romanian authorities at eur 94 million. bulgaria - summer floods: the bulgarian authorities estimate the total direct damage at eur 79,3 million. the cost of the basic emergency operations is estimated at eur 69,1 million. italy - floods in autumn: the total direct damage was estimated by the italian authorities at eur 241 million. the commission notes that the commission has not provided any information on the number of cases of non-compliance with the requirements of the basic regulation. this is in line with the existing practice in the case of regional disasters and catastrophes accepted under the provisions of the 'neighbouring country'.
written. ‒ the activation of the solidarity fund should take into account the criteria determining access to the fund, as well as the delivery mechanisms. i fully support the resolution on mobilising the fund in the case of three member states because i believe that the commitments to countries in need, which have met the conditions for mobilising funds as provided for in the specific instruments, must be fulfilled. the natural disaster that struck the republic of croatia on a large scale was to some extent remedied by funds from the solidarity fund, which, of course, greatly helped and facilitated the removal of the catastrophic consequences of severe floods. the commission has also received a request from the member states to provide additional information on the implementation of the union's macro-financial assistance.
mr president, the establishment and implementation of integrated multimodal systems must be one of our main priorities in the transport sector because, in addition to facilitating the movement of passengers, it also opens up a great deal of scope for improving the quality of service, lowering prices and growing the entire sector. however, they cannot agree with somewhat unrealistic goals, such as the provision of intelligent real-time positioning systems for all forms of transport in local public transport by 2020 and the trends towards making such a standard a mandatory condition in tenders. i think that the potential cost of imposing such standards would be enormous for smaller carriers and that we would put a large number of them out of business, which is unacceptable.
written. ‒ i support this report on the implementation of multimodal integrated ticketing systems in europe. the report calls on member states to share timetable information and develop an intermodal bill of lading, and for service providers to cooperate even more on the provision of a multimodal, cross-border journey planner. in terms of access to information before and during travel, greater attention should of course be paid to the needs of older people and persons with disabilities.
written. ‒ i voted for the report on the implementation of multimodal integrated ticketing systems in the eu because i believe that such a system has a great many positive aspects: from the promotion of modernisation that contributes to the economic market, tourism and mobility of citizens to environmental protection, sustainability and efficiency. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's macro-financial assistance in the context of the union's macro-financial assistance to the countries of central and eastern europe. this system will increase transparency in ticket purchases, encourage passengers to reduce their use of personal transport, and enable better connectivity even in the most remote regions.
written. ‒ the report on the implementation of integrated ticketing systems in the eu highlights that smooth multimodal transport is still not ensured by smart systems for train schedules, online booking and ticketing. the aim of the report is to encourage the creation of a platform for a single system that brings together the entire process from planning to arriving at the destination of the trip. the active involvement of the european union in this project is needed in the funding segment through the structural funds and the european fund for strategic investments. i supported this report because it encourages flexibility and makes travel easier.
‒ the european union is working to improve the transport network, but the long-term goal at eu level is to make travel information easier and to make travel easier for all users of air, rail and other modes of transport by introducing multimodal ticketing. a single travel card covering all modes of transport would facilitate passenger transport and make european traffic efficient with social, economic and tourist benefits. the issuing of multimodal cards within europe should be a priority, and therefore member states should be encouraged to develop their passenger networks and to participate in the better transport connectivity of the european union. the commission shall be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 26 to supplement this regulation by laying down detailed rules for the application of this regulation. although there is still a long way to go before a single multimodal card is issued, i support this report because it promotes better transport connectivity that will have social and economic benefits.
written. ‒ i agree with parliament that the challenges of european transport policy are many, such as economic sustainability, energy efficiency and environmental awareness, together with air traffic congestion, congestion, but the implementation of multimodal integrated information, ticketing and air ticketing systems is a major contribution to solving these problems. the long-term objective is to ensure that all eu citizens have as simple access as possible to the complex rules of air, rail, sea and land travel so that they can identify the most cost-effective, fastest or best-quality travel option for a given trip. i support the parliament's view that in order to be in a position to provide travellers with comprehensive information within the time limits set, the same information must be available to all travel planning services throughout the eu, regardless of the specificity of the region or the commercial contracts in force. while there is a long way to go before an interoperable, compatible real-time travel information system is established at eu level, the evolution of the internet shows that this service is both possible and necessary.
written. ‒ the unanimous support of the competent committee on transport and tourism for the european parliament's motion for a resolution on the implementation of multimodal integrated ticketing systems in the eu speaks volumes about the quality of the proposal. i support the resolution because i believe that the eu must insist on building a more competitive transport system, which was the key objective of initiative 22 in the 2011 white paper of the same name. in line with the continuous and accelerated technological progress, this resolution represents a significant step forward for union citizens in realising their rights to uninterrupted multimodal transport with the service of intelligent and integrated ticketing. the integrated ticketing enables the combination of different modes of transport in a single ticket, thus providing a propulsive response to the main challenges in european transport. such combined transport would contribute to strengthening the core european values of the single european transport area, which include economic sustainability, increased safety in all modes of transport, multimodal transport, efficiency, the creation of new and quality jobs and labour mobility. such 'smart' and sustainable mobility benefits society, the economy, the environment, social cohesion and tourism in equal measure. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's policy on the environment and climate change, and will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's policy on climate change and its impact on the environment.
written. ‒ i support the report on the implementation of multimodal integrated ticketing systems in the eu because it allows for more efficient transport across the eu member states. i believe that this will contribute to strengthening the freedom of movement of citizens in the member states and to strengthening tourism. given that 72.2% of citizens used cars as a means of transport in 2012, i believe that the implementation of this system would achieve more frequent use of public transport and thus reduce pollution and traffic congestion in cities. i also believe that the implementation of this system would improve the competitiveness of enterprises and provide more space for small and medium-sized enterprises. this regulation would also improve the rights and information of consumers on transport in the european union. this would make it much easier for passengers to travel through the european union, as they would have one ticket for the entire journey, regardless of the different modes of transport they use.
written. ‒ mobility is an integral part of the modern way of life and one of the fundamental values on which the european union is based. the free movement of citizens of all 28 member states is the foundation on which all positive effects and economic objectives are based. i support this report because we need to improve the infrastructure for all our citizens to be able to travel efficiently within the european union. we need to work on integrated, multimodal transport that will improve service and facilitate movement. one of the primary objectives is to implement integrated transport charts and to obtain integrated transport information in a very simple and accessible way. the objectives we want to achieve are multimodal stations, online platforms for booking and buying tickets for all types of transport, connecting public and private transport providers, etc. such a system would allow for greater cooperation, mobility and development of tourism and the economy as a whole. in addition, ease of use and travel efficiency would lead to a reduction in the use of passenger cars, a reduction in large traffic congestion and a reduction in the harmful impact on the environment. it would also reduce noise and provide citizens with a simple, affordable and quality service.
written. ‒ i certainly welcome the rapporteur's effort to point out to the commission the need to create a non-legislative framework that will support the efforts that operators are already making across europe. i also agree with the indisputable fact that the market should not be subject to restrictions aimed at making it difficult for potential innovations to try to keep pace with constantly changing technologies. the long-term objective is to enable the provision of comprehensive information on travel by air, rail, sea and road with public and private transport operators throughout the eu. the commission should be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 290 tfeu concerning the conditions for the use of the single payment card for the purpose of the provision of electronic communications services. as with any innovation, there are certain fears of failure, which does not mean that they should be a barrier to inevitable development and progress.
written. ‒ i voted to extend the mandate of the special committee on taxation decisions and other measures similar in nature or effect in order to allow that committee to continue unhindered the work it has begun and to achieve the objectives for which it was set up. it is necessary to put an end to unfair tax practices and to strengthen the fight against tax evasion throughout the european union. i therefore consider that the committee can improve the transparency and efficiency of tax rulings and therefore favour the extension of its mandate, as provided for in rule 197 of the rules of procedure.
written. ‒ following the revelation of non-transparent and unfair tax treatment by certain member states of large international companies, which undermined the tax bases of other member states and the eu's single market, the european parliament set up a special committee on tax rulings and other measures similar in nature or effect (taxe) in strasbourg on 12 february. the taxe committee aims to examine tax rules, state aid schemes and similar measures in all member states from 1991 to the present, and to organise hearings involving representatives of the european commission responsible for tax issues, representatives of member states' tax administrations, the private sector and representatives of other interested groups to help find solutions to unfair tax practices and aggressive tax planning. the commission should be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 290 tfeu concerning the establishment of a european data protection supervisor, the appointment of a european data protection supervisor and the appointment of a european data protection supervisor. as the ep supported the establishment of the taxe committee and its six-month mandate in february, i supported the extension of the taxe committee's mandate until 30 november 2015 as decided at the conference of presidents at the end of june in order for the taxe committee to fulfil its mandate-related tasks.
the european parliament, by decision of 12 february 2015, established the special committee on taxation and other measures similar in nature and effect on the basis of rule 197 of its rules of procedure. the article provides for the right to set up special committees whose powers, composition and duration of mandate are to be determined at the same time as the decision establishing them is taken. the committee was set up on a proposal from the conference of presidents and by a commission decision to examine the practice of tax rulings under eu state aid rules in all member states. it consists of 45 members, its term of office is six months from the date of adoption of that decision, and its primary objective is to shed light on the way in which member states tax in order to avoid unfair tax practices and to combat tax evasion in the european union. as i believe that this committee can contribute by its action to fair taxation practices within the member states of the european union and thus to the improvement and development of the economic image of the union itself, i supported the extension of its mandate. the existence of a special committee for tax rulings and other measures of a similar nature and effect is a logical way of achieving the eu's objectives and preventing activities that could jeopardise them.
written. ‒ given that tax evasion continues to represent a significant loss for the financial budgets of the member states and, consequently, of the european union, i support the decision to extend the mandate of the special committee on taxation and other measures. the work of this committee so far has shown that it deserves to be extended and it is further addressing all the problems mentioned above.
written. ‒ i have supported the request for the extension of the mandate of the special committee on tax rulings and other measures similar in nature or effect, established on 12 february 2015. i consider this committee to be of particular importance to the citizens of individual member states of the union, since its members are charged with investigating allegations that some states have granted special tax benefits to international corporations. in view of the current investigations launched by the commission and the disclosures by journalists concerning alleged illegal practices, i consider that the public has a strong interest in this area and deserves a transparent tax system. in addition to the above-mentioned examination of tax rulings adopted in the member states since 1991, i consider that the role of this committee in examining the way the european commission treats states and their existing state aid programmes is also important for the protection of citizens. that's why i voted to extend the mandate.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the council position report on draft amending budget no 1/2015 of the european union for the financial year 2015, part iii. commission, attached to the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the european fund for strategic investments and amending regulations (eu) no 1291/2013 and (eu) no 1316/2013 (09876/2015 c8-0172/2015 2015/2011 ((bud)) as i support the commission's proposal to establish a european fund for strategic investments (efsi) to support strategic investments with high economic and social added value, promote sustainable innovation, skills and local places, foster eu competitiveness and contribute to the union strategy for growth, sustainability and inclusiveness. this supports the implementation of the necessary amendments to the budget nomenclature in accordance with the legislative agreement on the european fund for strategic investments and the implementation of the necessary reallocation of eur 1 360 million of commitment appropriations and eur 10 million of payment appropriations. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's financial instruments, in particular the european regional development fund, and will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's macro-financial assistance.
written. ‒ the objective of this draft budget is to include in the budget nomenclature the items for the european fund for strategic investments guarantee, the european fund for strategic investments guarantee fund reserve clearance and the european investment advisory hub. the commission shall be assisted by the european parliament and the council. the aim is to channel the european fund for strategic investments towards the economy in several phases by 2020. it is necessary to evaluate the use of the funds provided for by the european fund for strategic investments in stages in order to be able to assess the quality of implementation, which is emphasised in this report and which i have therefore supported.
the purpose of draft amending budget no 1 for the general budget for 2015 is to implement the necessary amendments to the budget nomenclature in accordance with the legislative agreement on the european fund for strategic investments and to implement the necessary reallocation of eur 1360 million of the commitment appropriations to the newly created guarantee fund and eur 10 million of the payment appropriations to finance the european investment advisory hub and the european investment project portal. on 26 november 2014, the commission proposed an investment plan for europe to mobilise at least eur 315 billion of additional investment over the next three years through the european fund for strategic investments, in partnership with the commission and the european investment bank. i welcome this effort by the commission to stimulate economic growth and employment by mobilising additional funds for investment in projects of importance not only to individual member states but to the union as a whole. having regard to the commission's draft amending budget, the council's position on the draft amending budget and the proposal for a regulation on the european fund for strategic investments adopted by the commission on 13 january 2015, and the european parliament's approval of the council's position on the draft amending budget in its motion for a resolution, i join the general consensus and support this statement of the council's position.
written. ‒ since the purpose of draft amending budget no 1/2015 is to implement the necessary changes in the budget nomenclature in accordance with the legislative agreement on the european fund for strategic investments, and implementation requires a reallocation of eur 1 360 million of commitment appropriations and eur 10 million of payment appropriations. the main role of the union budget is to create added value by pooling resources and ensuring high synergies between the european structural and investment funds and the esf while increasing the multiplier effect of the union contribution. i agree with the position on supporting the mobilisation of additional private and public resources to invest in objectives with a european dimension, in particular by addressing cross-border problems in areas such as energy, environment and transport infrastructure. however, as a total of eur 1 350 million is being reallocated from the connecting europe facility (eur 790 million), horizon 2020 (eur 70 million) and iter (eur 490 million) in commitment appropriations for the provision of the guarantee fund in 2015, i share the rapporteur's concern that these programmes are key to job creation and growth in europe and i support the efforts to compensate for this reallocation in the forthcoming budgetary procedures.
written. ‒ first of all, the commitment of all the institutions to reach an agreement on the european fund for strategic investments in time to get it up and running as soon as possible should be welcomed. the fact that an additional eur 1 billion will be financed from the overall vfo balance for the remaining commitments from the 2014-2015 budget is extremely positive. this in itself leaves a greater pool of resources to link europe and horizon 2020. such eu programmes guarantee stable and sustainable growth in the member states and enhance the eu's competitiveness on the world market. as for all other programmes, it is necessary to guarantee the transparency, accountability and control of financial instruments or any other mechanism financed by the union budget, and in particular the efsi. the establishment of the european fund for strategic investments is an example of good policy to stimulate investment, develop innovation and create jobs and i therefore support draft amending budget no 1/2015.
written. ‒ i support the council position report on draft amending budget no 1/2015 of the european union for the financial year 2015, part iii. as the legislative agreement on the european fund for strategic investments and implementation requires a reallocation of eur 1 360 million of commitment appropriations and eur 10 million of payment appropriations. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's macro-financial assistance to the countries of central and eastern europe, including the countries of the former soviet union, and will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's macro-financial assistance to the countries of central and eastern europe.
written. ‒ i support this draft report because i consider it correct that for the provisioning of the guarantee fund in 2015, a total amount of eur 1 350 million has been transferred from the connecting europe facility (eur 790 million), horizon 2020 (eur 70 million) and iter (eur 490 million) in commitment appropriations, in particular because all additional appropriations for the implementation of the european fund for strategic investments in commitments and payments have been transferred in full and therefore the total amounts of commitment appropriations and payment appropriations remain the same in the 2015 budget. i agree that an additional eur 1 billion, compared to the commission's proposal for the year in question, should be financed from the overall difference of the mff for commitments resulting from the remaining differences in the 2014 and 2015 budgets, thus facilitating the redistribution from the connecting europe facility and horizon 2020. however, given that these are programmes that are of paramount importance for creating jobs and growth in europe, it is essential to replace the reallocated appropriations in the forthcoming budgetary decision.
written. ‒ the allocation of funds from the european fund for strategic investments to mitigate imbalances in member states with low gdp can provide good support practices and opportunities to address financing difficulties. the implementation of long-term productive strategic investments in the union provides a stimulus to the economy and ensures greater access to finance for enterprises with fewer than 3 000 employees. i am particularly pleased that the emphasis is on small, medium and micro enterprises, which are in dire need of help to attract market finance, especially when it comes to riskier investments. i believe that in this case the very purpose of the draft amending budget is well-targeted to achieve the implementation and launch of the fund as soon as possible, but i also believe that the rearrangement of resources in the future should not be carried out to the detriment of other programmes which also contribute to growth and employment. as i have pointed out many times, i support measures to ensure economic recovery, with the overriding need to increase regulatory predictability, and i am referring to transparency in information provision. at the same time, i believe that a reduction in administrative burden and better control by the administrative supervisors is necessary. i voted in favour of the fund, with the aim of achieving the best possible results.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution of the european parliament on the council position on draft amending budget no 5/2015 of the european union for the financial year 2015 in response to migratory pressures, as it increases the appropriations for managing migration and addressing the refugee problem. the daily tragedies in the mediterranean are a clear sign that additional measures and additional efforts are needed to put an end to the continuing disaster in our sea. it is necessary to ensure that the financial burden of this crisis is borne by the european union as a whole and to avoid overburdening the southern coastal states of the union. however, the funds in question do not meet real needs which are very complex and for which further deterioration is foreseen. i believe that urgent action is needed to contribute in an effective and speedy way to the alleviation of this dramatic situation.
‒ europe is increasingly facing an increase in people fleeing their countries because of wars, poverty and political instability to seek a better life within the borders of the european union. more than 1,500 migrants have died in the mediterranean since the beginning of the year, and estimates suggest that more than 20,000 people have died in the last 20 years. if migration flows are not managed in a timely and effective manner, taking into account all aspects of the problem, there will be an increase in costs in other areas. the budget nomenclature of the asylum, migration and integration fund, which is the subject of this resolution, needs to be amended. the european agenda on migration must be upheld, even if it has led to divisions among member states. in this case, stronger cooperation by all member states is needed and that is why i supported this draft amending budget for the financial year 2015.
written. ‒ draft amending budget no 5 for 2015 (response to migratory pressures) included an increase in union funds for the management of migration and refugee flows in response to recent events in the southern mediterranean, in particular additional appropriations for frontex, the asylum, migration and integration fund and the internal security fund. the total net increase in appropriations for this purpose is eur 75,8 million. following the recent tragic event in the mediterranean in which some 700 people lost their lives, the council and parliament agreed that the union should act. i have also repeatedly warned parliament and the commission of the many sufferings of refugees and migrants and of the urgent need for help. one response is to increase air and sea surveillance to increase search and rescue capabilities. it will also help the most vulnerable member states to take in more migrants, which i certainly think is necessary, especially for those member states with external borders to the eu like croatia or hungary. having regard to the commission's draft amending budget, the council's position on that draft and parliament's confirmation in its motion for a resolution that, in view of the urgency of the situation, it is prepared to adopt as soon as possible this draft as presented by the commission and to approve the council's position on it, i support this report.
written. ‒ in the light of macroeconomic forecasts and demographic trends in the union and in neighbouring regions, in particular west and central africa, the noticeable increase in migration to europe cannot be considered a temporary phenomenon. the commission has also identified a number of areas where the union should be able to take action to address the challenges of migration. i welcome the willingness of all institutions to increase the budgetary appropriations related to migration and asylum, given the obvious urgency of this. i also regret the limited amount of increases proposed in draft amending budget no 5/2015, which do not correspond to the real needs at a time of probably the greatest crisis in the mediterranean, the growing risk of an increase of refugees from ukraine and the need to address the challenges of migration as a whole. i agree that there needs to be strict controls on the outflow of funds and thus more transparency when it comes to the procedures themselves and that account should also be taken of the various investigations into several abuses that have been uncovered in the member states.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of draft amending budget no 5/2015 in response to migratory pressures which, following the recent tragedies in the mediterranean, seeks to increase the union's resources for managing the migration flows of refugees. the total level of payment appropriations in the 2015 budget remains unchanged, as the increase of eur 69 652 000 is fully reallocated from the galileo programme. i welcome the position clearly expressed in the report, which regrets the limited amount of increases proposed in the draft which do not correspond to real needs in view of the current crisis in the mediterranean, which is tending to worsen, the growing risk of an increase in the number of refugees from ukraine and the need to address migration challenges in general. i also agree that there is a need for stricter control of the use of these funds and, consequently, greater transparency in contracting and subcontracting, in view of the various investigations into the multiple cases of abuse that have been uncovered in the member states.
written. ‒ i support the draft amending budget which aims to increase the union's resources for managing migration and refugee flows following all the recent tragic events in the mediterranean. i also support the recruitment of additional staff in frontex, europol and easo, all with the aim of better managing migration. while the objective and the will to increase the resources of all the institutions is commendable, i consider that it does not meet the real needs in view of the current crisis.
written. ‒ i agree with the draft report in question, given that the objective of draft amending budget no 5/2015 is to increase the union's resources for managing migration and refugee flows resulting from the recent tragedies in the mediterranean and that the additional funds of eur 69 652 000 will be fully reallocated from the galileo programme, which means that the overall level of payment appropriations in the 2015 budget remains unchanged. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the eu-osha programme and will continue to monitor the implementation of the eu-osha programme, including the implementation of the eu-osha programme. the commission should also be able to provide the necessary information to the member states and the commission on the implementation of the union's macro-financial assistance. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's macro-financial assistance to the countries of central and eastern europe, including the countries of the former soviet union, in order to ensure that the union's macro-financial assistance is consistent with the union's macro-financial assistance.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the draft budget amendment relating to increased migratory pressures, as this amendment seeks to increase the resources for the effective management of the increased volume of migratory flows, as well as the increased influx of refugees following the recent tragedy in the southern mediterranean. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's macro-financial assistance to the countries of central and eastern europe, in particular through the european neighbourhood instrument (enpi) and the european neighbourhood instrument (enpi). the increase for these five budgets relates to the eur 75,8 million fully allocated from the galileo programme, with the total payments from the 2015 budget remaining unchanged. i believe that partnership with third countries, aimed at tackling migration problems, can only result in the introduction of even more concrete measures to try to prevent the organisation of such dangerous journeys. europe cannot receive and provide quality care for all those seeking protection, and there are problems with the integration of those already received. i therefore believe that in addressing the current problems, we must first focus on the root causes of increased migratory pressures, and that this will lead to effective and timely action.
written. ‒ i support this report on the consequences for dairy farmers of the abolition of milk quotas and the russian embargo. the report was improved by many amendments by socialist and democrat mps and contains proposals and measures aimed at protecting dairy farmers in the difficult situation they find themselves in, from how to deal with risks in the dairy sector, the effects of unfair trading practices and the like.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the european parliament's motion for a resolution on the future of the eu milk and milk products sector revision of the implementation of the milk package because this proposal raises the level of competitiveness and sustainability of the sector, which is suffering from the effects of the crisis. the commission should also be able to assess the impact of the crisis on the quality of milk products and the quality of milk products produced in the member states. the importance of the milk and milk products sector also stems from the fact that it is a highly important part of the agri-food industry, in terms of job creation and long-term growth, especially in rural, outermost and island regions. it is therefore necessary to ensure market stability through additional promotion and quality programmes to ensure the growth and upgrading of the sector.
written. ‒ the 'milk package' aims to strengthen the position of milk and milk products producers in the milk and milk products supply chain and to prepare the sector for a sustainable and market-oriented future. as there have been significant changes in the various segments of the european union, it is necessary to analyse the effects on the eu milk and milk products sector. the report states that the milk and milk products sector has a long-term perspective, but also that the demand for milk and milk products is volatile. in addition, it is necessary to open the possibility of obtaining funds from the european investment bank to assist member states in implementing the necessary reforms. it is important to strengthen national initiatives in the implementation of reforms. the commission notes that the commission has not provided any information on the number of dairy cows in the dairy sector in the republic of croatia. on the other hand, the quality of croatian milk is at an enviable level. it is clear that reform is needed in the milk and milk products sector, as this report points out, and that is why i supported it.
written. ‒ the european milk and milk products sector is the most sensitive agricultural sector and has encountered major challenges and difficulties, especially after the expiry of the quota regime this year. the crisis is affecting the milk and milk products sector in a negative way. the commission notes that the aid is granted to the dairy industry in the form of a levy on milk and milk products. the commission notes that the aid granted to the dairy sector is limited to the minimum necessary to ensure that the dairy sector is able to meet the needs of the dairy sector. the commission should also be able to assess the impact of the measures on the milk market, in particular the impact of the measures on the milk market, on the milk market and on the dairy sector. the milk and milk products sector needs support to help producers cope with the crisis that has emerged, which is particularly relevant for rural areas that depend on this activity.
the commission has also examined the application of the rules on the protection of natural persons with regard to the processing of personal data by the member states. the circumstances that have put the dairy industry of croatia at a disadvantage are manifold and largely relate to the consequences in production arising during and after the civil war, the unfavourable results of the process of reconstruction and privatisation, the underdevelopment of the agrarian structure, small production capacities and a large number of small farms. croatia meets about 80% of its annual milk and milk products needs from its own production. the share of imports of finished dairy products is increasing enormously and this trend is expected to continue, which will certainly be contributed by the abolition of milk quotas earlier this year. i therefore support this report, and in particular the part of it which points out that milk and milk products producers, especially small producers, are particularly vulnerable to imbalances in the supply chain, in particular due to changes in demand, rising production costs and falling prices of agricultural products sold directly from farms, but also due to economic priorities in individual member states. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament and the council adopt a common position on the proposal for a regulation on the protection of the european union's financial interests against counterfeiting and the unauthorised use of such funds.
written. ‒ milk is produced in every eu member state and its production is constantly increasing. as the world's leading exporter of various dairy products, the eu plays a major role in the global dairy market. within the union, dairy production is an important agricultural sector of significant economic, social and territorial importance. the commission has also concluded that the milk quota system in the eu is in line with the milk quota system in the eu. while the long-term market outlook is generally positive, the challenges facing the eu in the coming years are numerous. the current tensions in milk prices and the 2009 milk crisis show that market liberalisation and dependence on foreign markets are a factor of price volatility and volatility. the report expressed concerns arising from the interruption of the milk quota system and any further instability in the market. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the new rules and to monitor the implementation of the new rules. i support this motion because i believe it will be of great help in these difficult times.
written. ‒ i support the report on the future of the eu milk and milk products sector. i consider that the 'milk package' is important in view of the volatility of the world milk market. the aim of this package is to achieve a sustainable and competitive milk market and to provide assistance to small and family-owned businesses that are highly vulnerable to market volatility. the commission notes that the aid is granted to the dairy sector in the form of a levy on milk and milk products. i also believe that the commission can do more to implement the 'milk package' in the peripheral regions of the european union to ensure continued production in those areas because milk production is the only form of income in a number of regions.
written. ‒ i support the report on the procedures and modalities for the hearing of commissioner-designate, lessons learned from the 2014 procedure. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's macro-financial assistance in the context of the union's macro-financial assistance. the commission considers that the aid is compatible with the internal market if it is granted to the dairy sector in the form of a levy on milk and milk products. the commission should also be able to assess the impact of the aid on the milk market and the dairy sector. in many vulnerable areas, e.g. mountains, outermost island areas, manure remains the sole generator of farm income and employment, and therefore it is necessary to retain it to prevent it from leaving the land. the commission considers that the aid is compatible with the internal market if it is granted in accordance with the rules on state aid. the members of the committee on agriculture and rural development, together with the rapporteur, tabled 482 amendments, and 35 compromise amendments were negotiated between the political groups. the compromise amendments cover key issues such as a sustainable and competitive sector across the eu and fair remuneration for milk.
written. ‒ i commend the rapporteur for the great effort he has put into analysing the impact and success of the measures presented in the 2012 'milk package' so far and the concrete proposals he has made to ensure a vital, sustainable and competitive dairy sector on the market after the abolition of milk quotas. the rapporteur has excellently detected the vulnerability of european milk producers and their exposure to market arbitrariness, to the increase in input prices and to the perception of milk as the loss leader among retailers. in particular, given the russian embargo on dairy products, i support the rapporteur's proposal to strengthen the role of the european milk market observatory, whose role would be to provide the dairy sector with relevant information, market indicators and consumption trends.
written. ‒ i support this report on the external impact of eu policy on trade and investment outside the eu. the report calls for ensuring market access for eu companies abroad, where significant barriers to the supply market remain. the report highlights the need to facilitate access to tenders for smes and makes recommendations to this end, such as the establishment of consortia.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the european parliament's motion for a resolution on the external impact of eu trade and investment policy on ppps in non-eu countries (2014/2233 ((ini)) given that ppps are important drivers of economic growth, innovation, competitiveness and job creation both in the single market and abroad and play a strategic role in modernising infrastructure; whereas the economic structures of countries benefit from an environment that allows interaction between public and private actors. furthermore, as public-private partnerships take various forms, the legislation sets high procedural standards. the positive impact of public-private partnerships on improving project implementation, stimulating innovation and research, a more professional management environment, and delivering high added value for citizens and consumers has been demonstrated. attention should be paid to ensuring the quality of services and/or goods and to achieving benefits for the public sector, while avoiding the creation of additional burdens or losses in the public sector. increased participation by eu enterprises in large-scale international public-private partnerships can lead to significant benefits in terms of decent job creation, productivity, competitiveness, technological opportunities and innovation development in the eu. there are many achievements in the eu through the use of public-private partnerships in infrastructure development and leading areas of technology, research, e-learning and other high value-added sectors.
written. ‒ private investment and financing have been key drivers of sustainable growth, which is forecast to be around 5% in developing countries in the coming years. experience shows that properly structured public-private partnerships can bring a number of benefits including innovation, increased efficiency, resource use and quality assurance and monitoring. i supported the report, which strongly supports the effective and comprehensive dissemination and application of the un principles on business and human rights within and outside the eu and stresses the need to take all political and legislative measures to ensure the smooth application of the un principles, including in the area of access to justice.
written. ‒ public-private partnerships are an important driver of economic growth, innovation, competitiveness and job creation both in the single market and globally, and play a strategic role in modernising infrastructure, particularly energy, water, road and digital infrastructure. public-private partnerships, if properly implemented, can reduce costs, improve the efficiency, effectiveness and quality of public services and ensure the timely delivery of public infrastructure, with appropriate involvement of public and private stakeholders. such projects usually have a long life cycle and should be meaningful, consistently targeted, whether the work is to be done, the exchange of goods or the services to be provided. smes as well as large corporations can provide private sector knowledge and skills, experience and good practices, as well as networks involving public authorities from non-eu countries, thus effectively helping to shape sustainable development policies. they can best fulfil their potential by networking and operating on a global market by entering markets outside europe, including through public-private partnerships. as the economic structures and societies of countries and their dynamism benefit from environments that allow for interaction between the public and private sectors, i supported this report.
written. ‒ there has always been a need to create decent jobs, stronger competitiveness and productivity within the eu and in third countries through innovative policies and new tools to stimulate the activities of economic actors. public-private partnerships are precisely this innovation that could be a potential source of growth for businesses in the eu and beneficial to our partner third countries because it could provide infrastructure and goods and services of general interest. public-private partnerships should deliver high added value for citizens and consumers, guarantee the quality of services and/or goods and provide a concrete market and economic advantage for public administrations, at national and local level. i support the rapporteur's view that in the construction, management, maintenance or operation of infrastructure in the transport sector, public buildings and equipment, the environment, utilities, telecommunications and energy networks or the development of new technologies and products, there are a number of potential benefits and inherent risks that can be shared between the private and public sectors. i welcome this initiative and agree that the opportunities offered by the jep outside the eu are great. i welcome the call for the eu institutions to take the necessary steps to start working as soon as possible to promote the participation of eu companies, especially smes, in these projects.
written. ‒ i support the resolution on the external impact of the european union's trade and investment policy on public-private partnership (ppp) initiatives in non-eu countries. the jpps require a significant level of flexibility from the public and private sectors to deliver joint initiatives and strategic endeavours. this resolution clearly underlines the need to guarantee fair competition and access for all parties involved in the jpp. the jpp's private sector capital investments serve as a means of achieving economic growth, innovation, competitiveness and job creation not only within the european single market but also abroad, with particular emphasis on their role in developing countries. since jps are of particular importance for the realisation of large infrastructure projects, they play a strategic role in the modernisation of the energy, water, road and digital economy sectors. it is in developing countries that significant investments in those areas are needed and that administrative, procedural and technical barriers should be removed for european smes to be able to enter into public-private partnerships more easily. increased participation by eu enterprises in international jpps could lead to significant benefits in terms of job creation, productivity, competitiveness, technological opportunities and innovation development, both for the eu and for third countries.
written. ‒ i support the proposal on the external impact of eu trade and investment policy on ppp initiatives in non-eu countries, as i believe that member states and their societies benefit from ppps. i believe that these partnerships are important in that they stimulate economic growth, job creation, innovation and so on. i believe that this encourages the development of small and medium-sized enterprises which, by providing cheaper projects, achieve market competitiveness. i also believe that public-private partnerships can improve the quality and efficiency of service provision and reduce costs.
written. ‒ public-private partnerships are collaborations between public and private partners, which in many cases lead to joint investments. the public and private sectors pool resources and expertise to meet a public need through an appropriate allocation of resources, risks and benefits. it's a very good way for the private sector to put their resources and skills to work in delivering the goods and services that public services traditionally provide. successful public-private partnerships are characterised by the sharing of investment costs, risks, responsibilities and benefits between the partners. the effect of the ppps is to stimulate economic growth and accelerate the development of many important projects. in times of economic growth, we need to support public-private initiatives outside the european union. there are many benefits that can come from large international projects in the form of public-private partnerships. the development of such projects will stimulate job creation, increase productivity and further develop technology and innovation. we need to promote new investment opportunities and encourage the participation of european companies, especially smes, in public-private projects outside the european union, and that is why i support this report.
written. ‒ public-private partnerships are long-term agreements between private stakeholders and public bodies that seek to achieve mutually beneficial public objectives (in segments such as infrastructure, energy, telecommunications and the environment) by sharing resources and expertise. i certainly share the rapporteur's concerns about transparency, accountability, corruption and resource efficiency, but also his primary focus on the positive aspects of these partnerships, which are common practice in developed countries, especially in the eu and the us. the rapporteur argues that increased participation by european companies in large-scale public-private partnerships would bring significant benefits in terms of job creation and increased competitiveness, which i certainly welcome.
written. ‒ many countries are facing a major problem in the marketing of their fruit and vegetables due to the fact that exports to russia are blocked and need the support of the commission. i'm betting that those supports will continue until this situation is resolved. i also support the emphasis on the role of producer agencies, particularly in the fight against unfair trading practices.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the european parliament's motion for a resolution on the 2007 reform of the fruit and vegetables sector (2014/2147 ((ini)) as the 2007 reform sought to strengthen producer organisations in the fruit and vegetables sector and, inter alia, to make available a wider range of instruments to enable the prevention and management of market risks, and then to improve and direct supply, improve quality and competitiveness, adapt supply to market needs and provide technical support for environmentally friendly production. the report provides a balanced picture of the development of the regime in the fruit and vegetables sector since the 2007 reform, confirming the validity of the basic organisational structure for that sector and identifying areas where progress has been made. on the other hand, the commission should be called upon to make greater efforts to tackle unfair trading practices in the food supply chain that negatively affect producers' incomes, reduce revenues and threaten the survival and sustainability of the sector. stresses the importance of maintaining european quality standards for fresh fruit and vegetable products in order to guarantee high quality at all times, for the benefit of the final consumer; regrets the fact that in certain member states the degree of organisation in producer organisations is extremely low and recommends that member states make it a priority to promote the persistence of producer associations;
written. ‒ the agricultural sector must be developed in line with national strategies and protected from various political influences. for example, russian sanctions and the ban on fruit imports have had a significant impact on the european union, as well as on the republic of croatia, which has suffered direct damage. i support the resolution by nuna mela mps which proposes detailed measures to support the whole agricultural sector, taking into account agricultural product education to encourage healthier eating habits and consumption of fruit and vegetables, and the creation of a plan for youth employment in the agricultural sector, strengthening import control regimes and better negotiation with third countries.
written. ‒ the fruit and vegetable sector is facing major challenges due to the reduction in production volumes, recently pressured by the russian embargo, and needs to be encouraged. producers in this sector face various obstacles and i therefore consider this resolution to be a significant incentive to strengthen their competitiveness and to restore balance in the food supply chain. the encouragement of farmers to join producer organisations represents a significant new opportunity, especially for croatian farmers, to open the market to small producers who have less bargaining power and are more exposed to the risks associated with large markets. unfortunately, we in croatia lack a national programme on the basis of which our producer organisations could use eu money, so i am calling on the ministry of agriculture to draw up one. i believe that producer organisations are useful for protecting small farmers and providing them with security and increasing demand. the commission has also examined the impact of the aid on the environment and the environment protection of the union's forests. i also stress the importance of implementing the school fruit and vegetable delivery programme, through which small, local producers can supply schools with fresh fruit and vegetables. the commission should also be able to use the information provided by the member states to assess the impact of the measures taken by the member states on the agricultural sector.
written. ‒ the common agricultural policy has focused its efforts over the past 20 years on deregulating agricultural markets, allowing market forces to direct production. this general approach has been applied in particular to the fruit and vegetables sector where instruments such as export refunds or the fixing of minimum prices that processors are forced to pay to farmers for certain products have been abandoned. the 2007 fruit and vegetables reform has just reaffirmed the union's position on strengthening the role of producers themselves and of producer associations. until 2010, at eu level, trends in the organisational level of the fruit and vegetables sector were positive, as was the overall share of fruit and vegetables producers who were registered producers or members of associations. however, the growth trends have since stagnated. the current disparity in the levels of organisation within the fruit and vegetables sector between member states, i agree, is attributable to differences in starting positions at the start of the 2007 reform, rather than to the failure of the member states themselves to implement the reform. i believe that working on the growth of association and organisation within the fruit and vegetable sector remains an eu imperative, especially as by entering the market together, fragmented growers like those in croatia have a better chance of a quality breakthrough on the eu market, despite the decline in production in the past year.
written. ‒ the contribution of producer organisations (pos) in the fruit and vegetables sector is highlighted in various parts of eu legislation. the 2007 reform of the common agricultural policy (cap) introduced a new set of tools aimed at strengthening their role in the fruit and vegetables sector. for the first time, the lag was able to receive eu support in the form of a contribution to finance its operational programmes. the eu financial assistance to the jrc shall be limited to 50% of the total operational fund, but may be increased to 60% in specific cases. member states were required to establish national strategies for sustainable operational programmes, in which the role of the contracting authority was further underlined. the ep is required to adopt a report to encourage the commission to present a legislative proposal aimed at revising the aid programme for the fruit and vegetables sector. i welcome the various measures of the regime for the fruit and vegetables sector, but also the addressing of shortcomings and inconsistencies, such as addressing unfair trading practices, the lack of clarification of the rules on orders and the need to reduce complex procedures. i therefore support the motion.
written. ‒ i support the proposal on the fruit and vegetables sector from the 2007 reform as it strengthens the role of the fruit and vegetables producers in the market which is important given its role in the economic development of the european union. i believe that this resolution improves the quality and supply of fruit and vegetables on the european union market. i think it's important to develop the fruit and vegetable sector because of its healthy contribution to health and nutrition. also, as the majority of the fruit and vegetables sector is made up of small and medium-sized enterprises, i believe that this proposal will improve innovation and market competitiveness. this proposal will preserve many jobs and improve the economic development of the central and southern european member states.
written. ‒ i support the report on the implementation of legislation in the fruit and vegetables sector in the period since the 2007 reform this own-initiative report examines the commission's report on the application of the provisions of the producer organisations, operational funds and operational programmes in the fruit and vegetables sector since the 2007 reform. the european union's policy for this sector focuses on strengthening the role of producer organisations in order to foster competitiveness, increase productivity, support research and innovation, and improve promotion and marketing. the report highlights the importance of the orders coming together in the form of a larger association of producer organisations, in order to increase the bargaining power of farmers in the food supply chain. finally, the good functioning of producer organisations is considered important for attracting young people to agriculture, which will contribute to the demographic trend of this sector.
written. ‒ the report on the fruit and vegetables sector since the 2007 reform focuses on producer organisations, which are being made more attractive by simplifying rules and reducing administrative burdens, which will ultimately result in increased competitiveness of individual producers, increased innovation in these sectors and market-oriented fruit and vegetables. i believe that in crisis situations, such as the ban on the import of certain agricultural products into the russian federation, it is clearly necessary to activate intervention measures to protect producer organisations. however, i would point out that we must not forget non-member producer organisations that are equally in need of assistance, namely small and medium-sized farms, which at union level represent the majority of fruit and vegetable producers, and the consequences of which have just been felt by the republic of croatia in its agricultural sector. the commission also found that the chinese exporting producers had a significant market share in the union market, which was higher than the union industry's market share. i therefore support efforts to improve the functioning of producer organisations, to make it easier for producers to join them and to simplify complex rules so that they can function.
madam president, the rapporteur is well aware of the need for greater transparency in the operations of listed companies, but i must admit that i am not sure that this objective can be achieved by the methods he proposes in this report above all by the aggregation of rules and reporting obligations for the various stakeholders. furthermore, while i consider in principle that contact between shareholders on matters concerning the company is desirable for the better management of the company, i consider that the transfer of the identity of all identified shareholders to a single shareholder should not be possible without the express consent of all the others. i must stress that we will not stimulate long-term shareholding by increasing the already excessive administrative burden, but solely by creating a stable business environment, ensuring a high level of predictability of business opportunities, reducing taxes and deregulating the market.
madam president, there is no doubt that this debate, and unfortunately the crisis that has lasted for too long, has shown that we need new regulations when it comes to joint stock companies. that is why i support this report, especially after the compromise amendments have been reached, when consensus has been reached, because i am convinced that we need the identification of the shareholders of all those companies that are listed on the stock exchange, i am convinced that we need transparency because it will guarantee a much better situation in the area of tax evasion and all that we have, unfortunately, experienced and heard in recent years. i also think that country-by-country reporting is a useful thing because there are different experiences, and in this way we start to achieve a kind of unity within the european union.
mr president, i welcome this commission proposal because i see it as a step forward, a step in the right direction to try to stabilise the market. the fundamental contradiction, which is reducing emissions and growing the economy, is just a fundamental contradiction. it can actually be solved precisely by investing heavily in innovation and research that has already yielded results to some extent. however, what i would like to specifically point out to the commission is, what are we going to do with those investments that are here, in front of us, that are going to be done to further carbonise our industry, in particular coal power generation do we have a response to such requests? and secondly, i think it would be good to think about a special policy towards poland because poland is in the most unenviable situation of all the eu countries when it comes to the coal industry which is very present in poland.
mr president, if we want this commission's mandate to be a success and if we want our mandate in parliament to be a success, there is no doubt that the only investment in economic growth and the growth of our european union will be the result of the success of the commission and the convening of parliament. so i am definitely convinced that in this element cohesion policy can play a very important role, especially for some member states, because it is certain that the data show that cohesion policy allows for significant investment in many regions within the eu. the second is, of course, the announced juncker fund. it must not be a failure, it must be the full success of this commission's mandate and of this parliament's convocation. the other thing i want to warn you about is macro-regional strategies. i am the parliament's rapporteur for the adriatic-ionian strategy, which includes the countries of the western balkans. i ask that we find a common denominator so that the various projects can be financed and for macro-regional strategies.
madam president, this is another example of where we need more europe. more europe, better coordination, better connectivity and an understanding by member states that the eu must coordinate this difficult security work. it has never been harder, worse, more dangerous, and if there is no clear cooperation between the police services of the member states or the security services of the member states at all, and that is coordinated through the eu bodies, it will not be good. of course, criminals know no borders, of course, everything that we're aware of today, which are the fighters and the terrorists that come into our territories, everything that we see as cybercrime -- all of it knows no borders. that's why we need more europe.
madam president, the problem of high unemployment is particularly evident in countries that have not implemented reforms and that are spending far more than they can afford. but even though the diagnosis is clear and long-standing, there are those who advocate the absence of reform and the rejection of fiscal discipline, and so we have amendment no. 11 to the commission's text of the proposal for a decision on guidelines for the employment policies of the member states, which throws out the call for structural reforms and fiscal responsibility and replaces it with the force of social rights and protection. we have to understand that these rights cost money and that somebody has to finance them. in croatia, there are fewer and fewer people who finance the system every day because they either move their business abroad or close their companies, so i'm wondering what magical measures you would recommend that we implement to ensure a high level of rights for everyone without involving structural reforms and fiscal responsibility on the one hand or further mindless borrowing on the other.
madam president, solving the crisis and unemployment in europe is the fundamental issue facing this commission and parliament's summit. the idea of tackling unemployment in europe through green jobs is definitely, simply put, a win-win situation. because we can reduce the unemployment problem, and at the same time do good things for the environment. so i strongly support this idea and this ambition, but we have to be aware that often green jobs are hard to come by and expensive. i also support the need for the so-called conservative routine approach, such as retraining, labour mobility, employing young people so that they get their first jobs in a flexible way. i think we need to do a combination of both.
madam president, commissioner, it seems that it is often necessary to remind ourselves that the europe 2020 strategy is what we should be adhering to at least for this period of the next five years and after we have already passed the audit. this strategy is based on what makes the european union competitive on a global scale, namely sustainable development. we need not talk about what sustainable development is, but we know that small, micro and medium-sized enterprises are the foundation of the european economy. to succeed, they must have the right skilled labor, they must have access to a certain amount of capital. so the success of green employment and therefore the green economy is possible if we meet three basic conditions: the first is to invest in education for sustainable development, which we currently do not have in any member state, knowing that the average is currently 2% of gdp investment, and that we should have much more. enable fiscal measures that will channel and facilitate private investment in green technologies. simplify procedures for using public money from eu funds, but also through green public procurement, encourage member states to invest in green technology, green employment and green economy.
madam president, we are one week away from the third international conference on development finance in addis and of course, success in addis is key to success later in new york in september and paris in december. that is why today we must reiterate the message we sent by adopting the resolution of mp pereira in april, namely that the eu must maintain its role as the leader and largest donor of development aid, but at the same time it must encourage shared responsibility and insist that other high-income countries and emerging economies also take up their development finance commitments. the eu has so far only committed itself to a contribution of 0.7% of gdp to official development assistance. in addition, we also need a new approach to financing development, because limited and scarce resources should first start investing in productive areas, engines of development, further mobilizing all kinds of financial resources, public and private, domestic and international. one of the greatest untapped opportunities lies in mobilizing the domestic resources of developing countries through more efficient tax systems. i therefore warmly welcome the report by rapporteur schlein, who is dealing with this very subject the fight against tax evasion and avoidance in developing countries. the new development strategy must also focus on strengthening tax administration capacity and fighting corruption. official development assistance remains an important component, but it's not enough to eradicate extreme poverty, and that's why we need a new funding model and, of course, success in addis.
madam president, mr commissioner, allow me to congratulate you right from the start on your ambitious plans and as you said, you want to go to addis ababa with ambitious plans and a coherent programme. there is no doubt that europe must remain the leader in providing aid to developing countries because that is the way we can act now, at this moment. but we all know that's not how we're going to eradicate poverty. so if we really want to eradicate poverty, we have to look for innovative and new ways and approaches. europe must first of all become a leader in the sense that globally everyone together, all the eu's main partners and, of course, all those countries that can help, are part of this project that the eu should lead. and of course, on the other hand, we have what mrs schlein is saying: the combination of tax havens and tax evasion must also be included in the development function of all these countries.
written. the luxembourg presidency, which will hold the council presidency for the 12th time, for the period from 1 july to 31 december 2015, presented its programme of activities, which identified the main themes and issues to be addressed by the council during that period. the luxembourg presidency's work programme is based on a total of seven headings: boosting investment to boost growth and create jobs; strengthening the eu's social dimension; managing migration flows, including freedom, justice and security; revitalizing the single market by focusing on the digital dimension; placing eu competitiveness in a global and transparent framework; promoting sustainable development and strengthening the eu's presence on the world stage. i believe that the programme of activities prepared for the luxembourg presidency of the council fully addresses the current issues of concern to the eu. in this context, i would particularly like to highlight the emphasis that this programme has placed on the social dimension of the eu, which is today particularly affected by the economic crisis we are experiencing, and on promoting the revitalization of the market in order to make the eu as competitive as possible and thus to break this downward trend in the social segment. i therefore welcome the programme of activities presented.
mr. president, i agree that we in this house have no right to cut greece to our own standards. i also agree that each country can spend its taxpayers' money as it sees fit, but it has no right to irresponsibly spend the taxpayers' money of other member states, especially those who do not have half as good salaries and pensions as those in greece. they knew that some loans were almost usurious, but they took them anyway because they didn't want to change their lifestyle. now imagine that the citizens of the other member states demand a referendum in which they declare that they no longer want to finance greece. it's the same democracy they're entitled to. but i believe they won't. i also believe that all relevant parties will sit down and finally resolve this beef. stubbornness and stubbornness, no matter where they come from, are not the answer. especially when such a solution almost always breaks the heads of ordinary citizens who are least to blame.
written. being responsible means taking responsibility for your actions and being willing to accept the consequences of your bad actions. whoever is to blame for the irresponsible behavior, the one who acted irresponsibly must bear the consequences. in the case of greece, the above should apply. at a time when greek civil servants are receiving 13th and 14th salaries and social benefits exceed the average salaries of citizens of several eu countries, and while average salaries in greece are close to or above the european average, while in greece public services are still employed exclusively on a party-line basis without the necessary qualifications, residents of other euro area countries who do not have these benefits from their salaries and pensions allocate funds to help resolve greek debts. furthermore, the citizens of these countries are insulted as being responsible for the problems greece is in. greece today must show a different face, accept responsibility and pay for a life beyond its means. i hope that other member states with similar levels of irresponsible behaviour will learn from this experience and change their behaviour for the good of their citizens.
the question he asked by raising his blue card. namely, i want to address you with a question: do you agree with me that one of the countries that is in a very dangerous and difficult situation in europe is bosnia and herzegovina, where a large number of muslims live, often under attack by those who call for terrorism or who want to recruit them to terrorism? do you agree with me that the european union should have a particular sensitivity to the situation in bosnia and herzegovina and help the security agencies in bosnia and herzegovina?
mr president, the terrorist attacks in france, tunisia and kuwait on 26 june are a clear indication that the threat to europe that once was external has now definitely become internal. terrorists are very effective in exploiting our weaknesses and soft approach to islamic extremists who have been imported into europe, but also to those who have been raised on our soil to hate western values. today europe is only shy about its christian roots, as if it were ashamed of its identity, and people and states without an identity are easy targets for those who want to force a different identity on us. our confusion and indecision actually attract and encourage such ones. i think it is high time to make it clear that extremists, that is to say people who band together to harm others, have no rights in the european union and that each of them has also chosen by his life choices that there is no place for him in europe.
mr. president, it's no accident that tunisia has been chosen for another terrorist attack. and it's no coincidence that tourism in tunisia was chosen for such a criminal enterprise. many victims have died, their families have been killed and of course we want to express our great solidarity with them. but we must also express our solidarity with the tunisian people and we must, commissioner, do everything to preserve the peace and stability of tunisia in this situation. this requires all kinds of help, first of all institutional, in terms of security, and all that we are already doing, but we must strengthen because tunisia must remain for us as a model of all the bad things that, unfortunately, happened after the arab spring. tunisia is a good example, let's keep that example by joining forces and helping that country as much as we can.
mr. president, today's debate takes place in the context of a process of normalization between cuba and the united states that has broader regional implications. and if the process of rapprochement between havana and washington is well-directed, it may narrow the space for populists across the western hemisphere, and especially the authoritarian left like the one that nicolás maduro is promoting in venezuela. maduro's anti-capitalist and anti-american tirades have always been meaningless, but they sound even more absurd at the moment when his ideological idols from cuba meet with the american president and renew relations with the united states. now, it is important that we in the european union also understand the nature of this process of normalization of relations between cuba and the united states, but also the impetus for democratization and respect for human rights in cuba and the entire region. and in that context, i object to the claims from the european left that the eu must enter into some kind of race with the us over cuba policy. the european union established diplomatic relations with cuba a long time ago, we have long passed the point where the us-cuban relations are only now coming. so instead of racing with the united states because of some fear of losing ground to cuba, we need strategic cooperation with democratic partners in north and latin america to promote common values. and in that regard, i think we need to be ambitious in negotiating a possible agreement on political dialogue that must open up the prospect of democratization in cuba. it must open the perspective of a new cuba in which there will be no more political prisoners, where freedom of speech, freedom of religion and, of course, the freedom and right of the cuban people to choose their government in free and multi-party elections will be possible. it will not happen overnight, but europe must never give up on these democratic goals. otherwise we would be betraying the cuban people and those cubans who have been awarded the sahara prize in this parliament for their struggle for freedom.
mr. president, i had the opportunity years ago to talk to people who were in cuban prisons, who were falsely prosecuted, who had mounted false trials. i had the opportunity to talk to people in barcelona and what i felt was a great hope, a great expectation from the european union and european countries. that's why we need to support these people and all the other people who have suffered in cuba and who want democracy in cuba. i, of course, support and welcome the normalization of relations with the current regime. and it's very good that we see steps forward towards democratizing the situation in cuba. of course, economic relations can help in that sense, too. but i am sure that we must never forget the suffering of the cuban people and the fact that we must respect all human and other rights on this beautiful island.
mr president, if i may say that i am not here to speak, but if the alde group has just one minute, i would ask you to give the floor to mr izaskun bilbao barandica. i'm sorry, but i understand that there are four speakers scheduled... if there are five, that is fine, otherwise i would ask you to give the floor to mr izaskun bilbao, because he has asked to speak before me.
mr. president, what is certain is that we are facing another incredible humanitarian crisis. and we have to be fully aware of that. because this situation that's happening in yemen today is not going to end overnight. we see that there are various military interventions, various militias, paramilitary groups operating in yemen. it's a mess. europe faces another major challenge: the need for humanitarian aid. millions of people will be hungry, many children will be faced with not knowing how to survive tomorrow. that is why i call on the european commission to make every effort to bring all the parties to the conflict to the table. it's the only guarantee that the conflict might be a little bit weaker and that we'll avoid the humanitarian catastrophe that, unfortunately, we're facing now, definitely.
madam president, there is no doubt that we have a rise in human rights violations all over the world and the fact that we have 60 million refugees and displaced persons is an appalling number. we have many human rights violations, unfortunately also in the member states, in our candidate countries that are close to us but what i would like to emphasize is the violation of the human rights of children. it's a new phenomenon, and in the worst possible way, because children and young men are being recruited for new wars. because girls are pushed into unwanted marriages. because girls are defiled. there seems to be a great deal of wrongdoing towards them, and i think that's something that we need to pay particular attention to in this report and talk about and act on wherever we can in the world.
madam vice-president, first of all i would like to thank commissioner hahn for his opening remarks on this important subject of the middle east and north africa, and in particular i would like to thank my colleague vincent peillon for his document which has received a great deal of support in the committee on foreign affairs and which indeed touches on a number of topics, in terms of functional topics, but also on a geographical area of importance on the periphery of the european union which today represents one of the major global crises and there is practically no country you mention in your report that is not in some way either in a state of war or in a state of terrorism, as we unfortunately saw recently in tunisia, or poses a migratory risk to both the european union's forces and requires our immediate response. i would like to point out here that we as members of parliament, as part of the delegation of the foreign affairs committee, have recently been in tehran and have been trying to contribute to the efforts that high representative mogherini, together with the others in the six, is trying to make as a political agreement, as the implementation of the agreement in lausanne, these days in vienna. i think it's also extremely important for the stability of the region itself because it's sort of a recognition of the role of iran, which is practically through conflicts with saudi arabia, so-called proxy wars, bringing wider instability to the region. in this respect, we must make every effort to fight daesh, the islamic state, which is a very specific creation that no one anticipated, and which shows in a terrorist way what atrocities are possible at the beginning of the 21st century. in this sense i also want to say that the persecution of christians that we have witnessed in the last few months, and perhaps even in the last two years, is unacceptable and that we must do everything as the european union, whether by political action or by the presence of our missions to prevent it.
mr president, i was very pleased when the union for the mediterranean initiative was launched and when the union for the mediterranean was established. i even had the opportunity to work in one part of that union. unfortunately, today we can say that the union for the mediterranean, after all that has happened in recent years, practically no longer exists. so i think we have to find a solution, a comprehensive solution for the mediterranean, the middle east, the countries of north africa, and i think the european union today can use its credibility and maybe launch a new comprehensive initiative because, i'm afraid, regardless of our priorities (relations with turkey, relations with israel and palestine, relations with countries that are good examples: tunisia, lebanon or jordan, relations with egypt), that we will still be concerned with individual things, but we may not be able to solve the whole problem. so i suggest we seriously consider a new comprehensive initiative.
mr. president, isis is working to govern by erasing borders, creating the so-called islamic state by killing everyone in their path. the islamic state is an extreme form of threat to the christian communities that live in areas that we consider the cradle of our faith, and today they are on the verge of total disappearance. the international community, unfortunately, is passive and just watches from the sidelines as people are killed and as the entire christian nation is wiped out. the european union needs to have a clear strategy on how to protect christians, but also how to help israel, which is surrounded by nine terrorist organizations and whose security is also threatened. it is an open secret that part of the money that the european union sends as humanitarian aid to the palestinian authority is used to finance the salaries of terrorists and to buy weapons to attack the people of israel. i am asking for an inquiry into the spending of european union money in the middle east as i am asking for the rejection of an amendment by the rapporteur calling for the payment of abortions to raped women from the eu budget. it is inhumane because we need to give women security by fighting terrorism and preventing rape, not by responding to violence against women with new violence, which abortion is.
mr. chairman, mr. commissioner johannes, first of all, thank you for your opening remarks and for presenting the neighborhood policy, the reform you've been working on, i would say, all year. but for your entire mandate and for the legacy of your mandate as commissioner for enlargement and neighbourhood, i will repeat once again: the credibility of the european union's foreign policy as a global actor literally breaks down on our efficiency in our closest neighbourhood, whether it is the eastern neighbourhood or the mediterranean and here is the middle east, as we talked about a little earlier in the previous item. i thank my friend and colleague eduard koukan for his dedicated work in producing this report, which is the main document by which we, parliament, contribute to your process of consultation and revision of the neighbourhood policy you are working on and which will hopefully be completed this autumn. what i think is key, and what we can say we have learned a kind of lesson in the last 10-15 years, is the individual approach of each of the countries involved in the european union's neighbourhood policy. there are very specific crises affecting both the east and the mediterranean today. with regard to the eastern partnership, i think the differentiation is very clear. we must support the ambition of those countries that want to join the european union and understand that other countries have not made that choice at this moment. but that doesn't mean we shouldn't put our instruments, contractual or financial, to work to improve those relationships and trust. i am very much in favour of trying to reactivate the union for the mediterranean in a certain way, despite the difficult circumstances, which was a good idea, but in the context of the stagnation of the middle east peace process or the new crisis, it has not been able to develop. in this respect, commissioner hahn, with this report from mr kukana, you will have our support in making this policy a powerful tool of the european union's foreign policy.
mr. president, the european neighbourhood is very unstable today, so it is in our best interest to quickly and effectively put out these crisis hotbeds. i believe therefore that any help from our foreign neighbours is very much needed and welcomed. but it must not be unconditional, and the rapporteur recognises this and proposes a model for rewarding the progress of these countries, which we call 'more for more'. i agree that the support for those who are bolder and faster in implementing reforms should be more generous and more concrete, but i also believe that we should be much more critical of the wrong policies and failures of our partners and give less for less. in the past, european taxpayers' money has been used to buy the favours of irresponsible and even autocratic governments in third countries for the sake of geopolitical interests. i hope those days are behind us because no politician has a mandate to spend taxpayer money so irresponsibly on policies that ultimately cost them the most.
mr president, in congratulating mr kukana on his report, i would like to say a few words about the eastern partnership. we must give the countries of eastern europe a european perspective. it's the best way for those countries, even those that don't want to be part of the european union today, like belarus, to still create forces that will be for the european union. my own example, my country croatia in the 1990s i was one of the few who spoke at all about the european union and the need for croatia to join the eu. i am here today in the european parliament and it is a great honour to be with you. so let's create a european perspective for those governments that want to join the european union. let's create and open up those opportunities, but let's also create for those who may not want to today, because in every country there are people who want to see their country in the european union. regimes pass, states remain. the european union, i am convinced, will not fail. in fact, it will stay and spread.
on behalf of the ecr club of representatives. madam president, this week in this house we remember the genocide in srebrenica. we are focused on the victims and the suffering of their families, but i would like to take this sad anniversary as a reminder of the no less sad role of the international community in this terrible bloodshed. for almost four years, they shared the two greatest tragedies that marked the war in the territory of the former yugoslavia: vukovar and srebrenica. but that time, unfortunately, was not enough for the images of the destroyed vukovar to the ground and the information about the mass killings of civilians and disarmed croatian defenders and the existence of camps for croats on serbian soil to open the eyes of the free world to the true nature of serbian aggression against neighboring countries. as a result of the inertia of the international community, the worst that could happen happened in srebrenica. and all those who wish to relativize these horrors should know that only truth leads to justice, and justice to lasting peace.
on behalf of the alde club of deputies. madam president, 20 years ago srebrenica was the site of genocide, the worst war crime since world war ii on european soil. the motive for the crime is that someone belongs to another nation or another religion. so we have to thank the fathers of europe for living in values that unite us in our diversity. that's what politicians in bosnia and herzegovina need to accept. it is time to stop dividing bosnia and herzegovina, it is time to realize that europe wants you in its arms, and therefore it is time to pay tribute to everyone in bosnia and herzegovina. let us honor the sacrifices and honor all those who were lost and the families who are still suffering today. all sides in bosnia and herzegovina committed war crimes, committed atrocities. unfortunately, so are members of my own people. so we must speak the truth and we must be brave enough to accept that truth. srebrenica remains a symbol of the suffering and tragedy of all the peoples of bosnia and herzegovina and that is why i believe that we should mark this day permanently. this should be the anniversary when all the suffering that happened in the areas of the former yugoslavia, but also elsewhere in the world, will really be marked. each of us must ask ourselves if we could have done something, if we could have prevented something. so, unfortunately, i have to say that the international community has completely failed to do what we all expected at the time, which was to prevent the slaughter that happened in srebrenica. we must punish the criminals to the end and that is why i expect the hague tribunal to do its job to the end. i regret that the united nations did not have the courage to pass a resolution because we expected it to pass a resolution. so it's good that we have a joint resolution here today, but it's also good that vucic decided to go to srebrenica. and that is why we must say here: this is not a resolution against serbia, let alone against the serbian people. this is a resolution that wants to help serbia face the truth and that we all become members of this great european family.
madam president, on the 20th anniversary of the srebrenica genocide, i express my condolences and solidarity with the families of the victims, many of whom still do not know the final fate of their loved ones. we strongly condemn the genocide committed by serb forces under the command of ratko mladic after the fall of the un protected zone in july 1995, when some 8000 captured bosniak men, boys and civilians were systematically executed. we also recall the 2007 judgment of the international court of justice, which found serbia responsible for its failure to prevent the srebrenica genocide and for its failure to cooperate in the prosecution of the perpetrators, and we also stress the need to bring the trial before the international criminal tribunal for the former yugoslavia to a speedy conclusion. we saw that yesterday in new york, russia vetoed, and china, venezuela, nigeria and angola were reserved on the un security council resolution. it is therefore all the more significant that our resolution rejects the denial, the relativization and the misinterpretations that are continually insisted upon by certain political options in bosnia and herzegovina and serbia. i am firmly convinced that reconciliation and a common future, a european future, can only come about through establishing the truth, accepting international judgments, apologising and mourning the victims of the greatest crime in europe since the second world war, and not through a policy of denying the crimes of the milosevic regime, and not only in bosnia and herzegovina.
madam president, we really don't have to wait for the so-called historical distance to be able to assess the scale of any particular event. the srebrenica genocide is certainly that. what we need to prevent is for such a past to have a future. today we know that the series of tragedies of the 20th century began 100 years ago in sarajevo, a city not far from srebrenica. and the european 20th century, full of war and destruction, ended in the same way, in 1995 in bosnia and herzegovina, in srebrenica. yet what makes the death of eight thousand people even more tragic is that at that time, unlike the early 20th century, there was the european union, the united nations and a system of collective security that had to prevent the common man from falling victim to the madness of war and unchecked hatred. victims were killed with guns 20 years ago, while victims today are trying to kill themselves with silence or the cynicism of high politics. however, the srebrenica victims will not and cannot be killed by oblivion. the european parliament can therefore be proud of its contribution to this fight with the resolution we are adopting today.
madam president, the message of the european union is united in diversity. this is precisely the message that needs to be conveyed to bosnia and herzegovina. for its citizens, for the future of its youth, for peace in the region, for the future. and for the future of the european union. we must not forget that it has been 20 years since one of the greatest crimes of all time took place: the genocide and ethnic cleansing in srebrenica. for the peace of all those 1200 or more, which we still can't find, in srebrenica, in other parts of bosnia and herzegovina, but also in croatia. for the sake of future generations, we must make every effort to find all the dead, to reconcile all the peoples of bosnia and herzegovina so that they have a secure future. i therefore call on the european union, all institutions and all citizens of bosnia and herzegovina to make every effort to find a solution for a lasting peace.
madam president, the energy obtained by nuclear fission is a very risky way of obtaining energy. in the last 30 years we have witnessed two of the greatest nuclear disasters, chernobyl and fukushima, and we have data on other, perhaps less publicly known, nuclear accidents. what we know from both of these accidents is this: every nuclear power plant has one weakness that is inherent in all technological advances in nuclear reactors from the dawn of the nuclear age to the present, and that is the continuous cooling of the primary circuit. the effects of a nuclear disaster are felt over a wide area for years and even centuries. i welcome this report as an expression of awareness of the need to prescribe appropriate measures in the event of nuclear accidents and of the rapporteur's view that parliament should be given the power of codecision on food and feed. it should be left to experts to determine the maximum permitted levels of radioactive contamination of food and feed which may be placed on the market of the european union following a nuclear accident or any other radiological hazard. i want to use this speech to publicly advocate for an end to the nuclear programme in the european union. accidents happen because of the lack of accountability of plant workers, plant-operating companies, and governments and states that ignore risks and put themselves and their neighbors at unnecessary risk. i welcome the decision of all the countries which wish to end their nuclear programmes in due course and i call on those which have not yet done so to do so as soon as possible. (the speaker agreed to answer the question by raising a blue card on the basis of rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure.)
answer the question posed by raising the blue card. madam president, i have advocated that parliament be involved in the decision-making process, but these decisions must be based on data provided by the professions, because we here in the european parliament come from different professions and we will make a political decision in the end. i agree with you that experts must be available to us parliamentarians, that they must give us all the relevant information and that in the end the final decision always belongs to politics, and i want as a politician who is a member of this parliament to also have the possibility of co-decision, which we have not had until now. that is why i support the rapporteur's position.
madam president, let me start by expressing my great pleasure that the european endowment for democracy has been set up, because i am one of those people who have had the opportunity to set up various foundations and i have been in a position to realise how much the foundations can really help. i think that this european foundation for democracy should play its key role among our neighbours and what i want to stress in this case is: do not forget our neighbours who are candidate countries or potential candidate countries. i am thinking here primarily of the countries of the western balkans because i know what the situation is with civil society and ngos and especially what the situation is in the media. the media generally have no money, especially the small media, the independent media, and i ask you to be careful in your work and help with such requests if they come. i believe that this strengthens democracy in these countries, and they will probably be among the first to become members of the european union.
mr president, i just want to invite colleagues to support two oral amendments, because yesterday two important decisions were taken and we have to include them in our resolution: ‘6a. regrets that the un security council, which has the primary responsibility for maintenance of international peace and security, failed to pass a resolution commemorating the srebrenica genocide. this is especially regrettable as the international court of justice – the un primary judicial body – has determined that the crimes committed in srebrenica were a genocideʼ. this is the first oral amendment. the second one: ‘strongly welcomes the decision of the council of ministers of bosnia and herzegovina taken unanimously to proclaim 11 july as a day of mourning in bosnia and herzegovina’. please vote in favour.
mr president, given its 50% share of the world's total social contributions, the european union must be proactive in shaping the new global economic rules when they are being created. it's irresponsible to start by rejecting the challenges of change, assuming that everything will stay the same. instead, we need to contribute constructively, without mystification, to the content of ttip and to inform citizens clearly. i've talked to negotiators on both sides, read the negotiating positions in the safe room, written inquiries to the commission, filed amendments. the work is paying off because the parliament's report has adopted amendments which i call for the abolition of visas, the maintenance of our food safety standards, energy security, but also the facilitation of access to sources of financing for our small and medium-sized companies so that they can be pressed into the american market at all. we have a good text that, if translated into the content of ttip, could develop a model of economic partnership for the 21st century.
written. ‒ ladies and gentlemen, i voted in favour of the resolution because it highlights the potential of ttip, but also warns that parliament will not accept it. this resolution is not a statement of whether we are for or against ttip, but whether we, as a democratically elected institution, have a position on the course of the negotiations. socialists and democrats know what they want from the agreement: economic growth and employment while maintaining standards of protection of workers' rights, the environment, food security, health and democracy. in ttip we do not want isds and we do not want to undermine the principles of democracy and the sovereignty of member states in the organisation of critical public services such as health, education, water supply and others. the resolution is a way of saying clearly to the negotiators from the european commission: 'gentlemen, these are the terms and positions of a parliament that represents half a billion people who are first citizens and then consumers. as you negotiate, remember that at the end of the negotiation you must come before us and ask for our approval for the renegotiated.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the european parliament resolution with the european parliament's recommendations to the commission on the negotiations on the transatlantic trade and investment partnership (ttip), as i believe that the partnership is good for the european and croatian economy. in the same way that for producers and exporters, eu accession has contributed to increasing the market and strengthening the attractiveness of croatia as a tourist destination, the transatlantic trade and investment partnership increases opportunities for croatian companies and improves opportunities for tourism. in addition, opportunities for foreign investment are increasing, which unfortunately are too few in croatia. i support ensuring, through these recommendations, a transparent ttip negotiation; leading to an ambitious, comprehensive and balanced trade and investment agreement of high standards; promoting sustainable growth with mutual benefits in the member states and mutual and reciprocal benefits for all partners; seeking the abolition of all customs tariffs; taking into account that visa facilitation for european service and goods providers is a crucial element; ensuring full recognition and strong legal protection of eu geographical indications and measures to deal with cases of misuse; continuing efforts to increase the transparency of negotiations by making more negotiation proposals available to the public.
written. ‒ the transatlantic trade and investment partnership (ttip) is of major geopolitical importance to both the european union and the united states. it will enhance bilateral relations between the world's two largest economies, but will also have an impact on the multilateral trading system. the aim is to promote economic growth, stimulate job creation and achieve better trading conditions. the commission notes that the ttip will have an impact on the republic of croatia, in particular on small and medium-sized enterprises. the reduction of unnecessary costs, simplification of administration and procedures, will make it much easier to place croatian products on the us market. the republic of croatia has a bilateral agreement with the united states dating back to 1996. however, ttip creates better conditions, i.e. a better framework for investment protection, which is why i supported this report.
written. ‒ the transatlantic trade and investment partnership is the most important eu-us project in recent times and the most significant trade agreement in the world currently being negotiated by eu-us negotiating teams. the political importance of this agreement is also invaluable for strengthening transatlantic cooperation in other areas. the european parliament, by adopting the resolution, supported the negotiations, but at the same time made clear its disagreements, fears and wishes to the eu negotiating team. i supported amendments which make it clear that it is necessary to accept that where the eu and the us have very different regulations there will be no agreement, particularly when it comes to public health services, genetically modified organisms, the use of hormones in the cattle sector, the reach regulation and its implementation and the cloning of animals for breeding, and that these issues cannot therefore be negotiated. the commission has also taken the view that the new rules on the protection of investors' interests should be based on the principle of the protection of legitimate expectations and the principle of the protection of legitimate expectations.
written. ‒ reducing regulatory barriers to trade is an important tool that ttip should help strengthen the european and us economies. the commission notes that the commission has not provided any evidence that the measure is compatible with the internal market. the us is the eu's largest export market. the new agreement would open up new opportunities for eu companies to export to the us and encourage us companies to invest more in europe. studies show that the agreement could bring up to 100 billion euros a year to economies throughout latin america, africa, and asia, helping to combat poverty in developing countries. the impact of the agreement on smes, which are the main drivers of economic growth and development in the eu, is significant. the projections are that 6 out of 10 entrepreneurs will increase their earnings by 20 percent, and 4 out of 10 will employ more people. the comprehensive trade agreement should include a chapter on investor protection as security is one of the cornerstones of attracting investment. the european union has developed a number of mechanisms to involve citizens and interested public in public consultation processes that are also underpinned by serious analyses of how the proposed change will affect the economy, the environment and human rights, and i therefore support the report.
‒ ttip is an economic agreement that would mean greater economic growth and greater benefits for all countries. given that the eu is heavily dependent on trade and exports, its gdp would increase by 15 to 20 per cent by 2020. the european position would be enhanced and the world market would be more interconnected. the situation of smes would be considerably improved, and unnecessary costs, barriers and complicated procedures would be removed. the ttip creates the basis for the creation of the largest free trade area, resulting in economic growth in both the eu and the us, as well as the creation of new jobs. to make the conclusion of an agreement as prudent as possible, the eu is striving to have as transparent a negotiation as possible in order to correct any errors in a timely manner and to reach an agreement that is favourable to both parties. the key clause of ttip is the reduction of customs tariffs and the protection of workers and the environment. the us and the eu can really make a big step forward with this agreement. i am also aware that many eu citizens fear that this agreement could open the door to gmo food imports. however, the eu has spoken out and protected its citizens by making clear that it will not sacrifice its food safety, health and social standards, environment, data protection and cultural diversity standards.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the recommendation on a draft council decision on the conclusion, on behalf of the european union and its member states, of the protocol to the stabilisation and association agreement between the european communities and their member states, of the one part, and the former yugoslav republic of macedonia, of the other part, to take account of the accession of the republic of croatia to the european union, as the agreement is to be brought into line with the fact that the republic of croatia has become a member of the european union.
written. ‒ the stabilisation and association agreement is the newer version of the agreement for the candidate countries and governs the rules for the comprehensive cooperation of the european union and its member states with the candidate country. by signing the agreement, or more precisely the 'evolutionary clauses', a country becomes a potential member of the european union. the agreement covers the countries of south-east europe, and so far only the republic of croatia has become a full member. the main difference between the previous europe agreements and the stabilisation and association agreement is the greater emphasis on regional cooperation. in addition, the agreement governs a number of trade regulations, harmonisation of legislation, respect for rights and freedoms, financial regulations and many others. i support the report by mr ive vajgl, giving his consent to the signing of the protocol to take account of the accession of the republic of croatia to the european union, adding the republic of macedonia as a member to the stabilisation and association agreement and laying down the rules of cooperation between croatia and macedonia.
written. ‒ the stabilisation and association agreement between the european communities and their member states, on the one hand, and macedonia, on the other, is the first step that macedonia must take on its path towards the eu. the protocols, which govern the means of communication and the means of implementation of this agreement between its signatories, should be amended accordingly in view of the accession of the republic of croatia to the eu. i support this decision, as i support macedonia on its way to the eu. macedonia is fully prepared to start eu accession negotiations, much more prepared than other countries that want to join the eu, but also than some that are already eu members. i believe that the 10-year wait is demotivating for the macedonian people and does not contribute to the stability of the region. i therefore call on the european parliament, the european commission and the council to take a political decision to open negotiations with macedonia, as the decision to block the opening of negotiations is also purely political.
written. ‒ having regard to the draft protocol to the stabilisation and association agreement between the european communities and their member states, of the one part, and the former yugoslav republic of macedonia, of the other part, to take account of the accession of the republic of croatia to the european union (05547/2014), and to the request for assent submitted by the council pursuant to articles 217 and 218 (6), second subparagraph, point (a) (i) and the second subparagraph of article 218 (8) of the treaty on the functioning of the european union (c8-0127/2014), i give my assent to the conclusion of this protocol. i also hope that the remaining cefte member countries will adapt their legislation as soon as possible to european practices and to croatia's accession.
written. ‒ i support the conclusion of a protocol to the stabilisation and association agreement (saa) between the european communities and their member states, of the one part, and the republic of macedonia, of the other part, to take account of the accession of the republic of croatia to the european union. by this protocol, croatia becomes a party to the eu-macedonia saa signed in luxembourg on 9 april 2001 and adopts and takes note, in the same way as the other member states of the european union, of the texts of the agreement, as well as the joint declarations and unilateral declarations annexed to the final act signed on the same day. as a croatian representative, i want to express my support for macedonia on its european path. croatia is a country that has been parallel to macedonia for part of its european path and i take this opportunity to express my regret that macedonia, which initialed the ssp at the zagreb summit in 2000, has not opened accession negotiations with the eu 15 years later despite six recommendations from the european commission.
written. ‒ i support this recommendation because on 24 september 2014 the council authorised the opening of negotiations by macedonia in order to conclude the protocol to the stabilisation and association agreement between the european communities and their member states, of the one part, and the republic of macedonia, of the other part, to take account of the accession of the republic of croatia to the european union. the protocol should be approved on behalf of the european union.
written. ‒ i support this report on the draft council decision on the conclusion, on behalf of the european union and its member states, of the protocol to the stabilisation and association agreement between the european communities and their member states, of the one part, and the former yugoslav republic of macedonia, of the other part. on 24 september 2012, the council authorised the commission to open negotiations, on behalf of the european union and its member states and the republic of croatia, with the former yugoslav republic of macedonia for the conclusion of a protocol to the stabilisation and association agreement between the european communities and their member states, of the one part, and the former yugoslav republic of macedonia, of the other part. the negotiations have been successfully concluded and i support the consent of the european parliament to the conclusion of this agreement. the republic of croatia is the latest member state to join the european union and we are therefore encouraging further rapprochement of the countries in the vicinity of the european union.
written. ‒ i supported the protocol to the stabilisation and association agreement with the former yugoslav republic of macedonia, which sets out technical measures to take account of croatia's accession to the european union. the 2001 agreement confirmed macedonia's status as a potential candidate for membership of the european union, and one of the main objectives is to provide an appropriate framework for political dialogue, which is badly needed in macedonia today. the upgrading of this agreement should serve as a reminder to the european union that it has committed itself to participate in the political, economic and institutional stabilisation of macedonia through the development of civil society and democratisation, institution building and public administration reform.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the recommendation on a draft council decision on the conclusion, on behalf of the european union and its member states, of the protocol to the stabilisation and association agreement between the european communities and their member states, of the one part, and the republic of serbia, of the other part, to take account of the accession of the republic of croatia to the european union, as the agreement is designed to align the text of the agreement with the fact that the republic of croatia has become a member of the european union.
written. ‒ since croatia has become a full member of the european union, its accession to the stabilisation and association agreement with serbia should also be taken into account, and i therefore supported the report by mr mcallister, giving his consent to the signing of the protocol. the stabilisation and association agreement is the newer version of the agreement for the candidate countries and governs the rules for the comprehensive cooperation of the european union and its member states with the candidate country.
written. ‒ the stabilisation and association agreement between the european communities and their member states, of the one part, and the republic of serbia, of the other part, is the first step that serbia must take on its path towards the eu. in view of the accession of the republic of croatia to the eu, that agreement needs to be amended accordingly. in view of the above, i support this decision amending the protocol to the agreement to take account of the accession of the republic of croatia to the european union. the republic of croatia's path towards the eu has been long and demanding, especially after the still visible wounds of the civil war. on its way to the eu, serbia must be as fully committed to that goal as croatia. this implies the need to align the national legislative framework with the eu acquis, which will certainly be extremely demanding when it comes to chapters 23 and 24. croatia has fulfilled its task, and these are the necessary steps to reach european standards before the republic of serbia. that is why i take this opportunity to reiterate serbia's commitment, as set out in the european parliament's 2014 resolution on the progress of the republic of serbia, to review its law on the organisation and competence of state bodies in the war crimes procedure of the republic of serbia in the spirit of reconciliation and good neighbourly relations, and in cooperation with neighbours and the commission.
written. ‒ having regard to the draft protocol to the stabilisation and association agreement between the european communities and their member states, of the one part, and the republic of serbia, of the other part, to take account of the accession of the republic of croatia to the european union (06681/2014), and to the request for assent submitted by the council pursuant to article 217, article 218 (6), second subparagraph, point (a) (i), and article 218 (8) second subparagraph of the treaty on the functioning of the european union (c8-0098/2014), i support the assent to be given to the conclusion of this protocol. i also hope that the remaining cefte member countries will adapt their legislation as soon as possible to european practices and to the accession of croatia, which has been two years since.
written. ‒ i support the conclusion of the protocol to the stabilisation and association agreement between the european communities and their member states, of the one part, and the republic of serbia, of the other part, to take account of the accession of the republic of croatia to the european union. by this protocol, croatia becomes a party to the stabilisation and association agreement between the eu and the republic of serbia, signed on 29 april 2008, and thereby adopts and takes note, in the same way as the other member states of the european union, of the texts of the agreement, as well as of the joint declarations and unilateral declarations annexed to the final act signed on the same day. the almost unanimous support of the foreign policy committee speaks to the importance of the adoption of the protocol in the context of the eu enlargement policy and serbia's further accession to the eu.
written. ‒ i support this recommendation because the council has authorised the commission to open negotiations with serbia in order to conclude a protocol to the stabilisation and association agreement between the european communities and their states and serbia, to take account of croatia's accession to the european union. the protocol should therefore be approved on behalf of the european union.
written. ‒ i support this report on the draft council decision on the conclusion, on behalf of the european union and its member states, of the protocol to the stabilisation and association agreement between the european communities and their member states, of the one part, and the republic of serbia, of the other part. i support the assent of the european parliament to the conclusion of this agreement. the republic of croatia is the latest member state to join the european union and we encourage further rapprochement of the countries in the vicinity of the european union. i take this opportunity to emphasise that in its approach to the european union, the republic of serbia must adhere to all the rules and values that the european union stands for. i am concerned about the recent statements made by the serbian minister aleksandar vulin in husha and his provocative actions, which clearly do not respect the republic of croatia, a full member of the european union. in addition, the recent rehabilitation of draze mihajlovic and the chetniks by the high court in belgrade is causing great concern. i support serbia on its path to the european union, but it is clear that it cannot become a member with such statements and judgments that go against the fundamental values on which the european union is based.
written. ‒ i supported the protocol to the stabilisation and association agreement with serbia, as it is only a technical measure to take account of the accession of the republic of croatia to the european union. as the central point of the stabilisation process, the agreement emphasises international and regional peace and cooperation, the development of good neighbourly relations and respect for and protection of human and minority rights, which serbia has not been respecting lately, and i therefore believe that this vote should also be a reminder of the provisions of the agreement. the agreement commits serbia to fostering cooperation and good neighbourly relations with the countries in the region, but this is not being implemented in practice. on the contrary, the actions and statements of serbian politicians have the opposite effect and cause tensions in regional relations. after the war criminal vojislav šešelj in serbia burned the croatian flag, the serbian authorities did not shy away from his actions or condemn them but with their statements further fuelled the tensions that had arisen, thus undermining the development of good neighborly relations and cooperation. soon afterwards, the rehabilitation of chetnik commander draža mihailović, known as the creator of the program of ethnic cleansing and the creation of greater serbia, followed. in view of the above, i believe that the european institutions should warn the authorities in belgrade of the violation of the provisions of the stabilisation and association agreement, which are a key factor in achieving stability in the region.
written. ‒ i support this report which aims to renew the agreement on cooperation in science and technology between europe and india. the contracting parties to the agreement consider, and i agree with them personally, that a swift renewal of the treaty will be in their mutual interest.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the draft legislative resolution of the european parliament on the draft council decision on the extension of the agreement for scientific and technological cooperation between the european community and the government of the republic of india, in view of the importance of science and technology in today's globalised world. it is imperative to improve the current capabilities, skills and resources that the european union has in this sector in order to ensure global competitiveness and sustainability. in this context, it is crucial to establish cooperation with other countries and world powers in order to exchange good practices and experiences. the extension of the agreement will allow the republic of india to continue its scientific and technological cooperation with the republic of india, and to continue the cooperation that has been established in the mutual interest. in addition, the renewal of the agreement does not change the substance of the agreement which is currently in force and which i support.
written. ‒ the eu-india cooperation agreement, which sets out the main priorities for a strategic partnership under the so-called 'joint action plan', has opened the door to a broad political dialogue. the data showing that, inter alia, bilateral trade has doubled in the last five years, while investments have increased tenfold in the same time period, is of particular importance, which is why i supported this report on the renewal of the agreement.
written. ‒ science and technological progress are of great importance both for the eu and for the rest of the world. each country can contribute to the development of technology with its knowledge, financial resources or in some other way. india has very cautiously allowed foreign investors to penetrate through the privatization of leading state-owned companies, banks and insurance companies. since the new delhi agreement in 2001, cooperation between the european union and india has been very successful. in recent years, india has been increasingly contributing to the eu market in terms of technology. i consider that the renewal of the agreement on scientific and technological cooperation between the european union and india is of great importance. i believe that the next five years, for which the agreement is being drawn up, will be beneficial for both the european union and india. the contract is in our mutual interest and i welcome the decision to extend it.
written. ‒ i support the rapporteur's recommendation on the draft council decision on the extension of the agreement on scientific and technological cooperation between the european community and the government of the republic of india which was given the assent of the european parliament, taking into account the draft council decision on the extension of the agreement on scientific and technological cooperation between the european community and the government of the republic of india (05872/2015) and council decision 2002/648/ec of 25 june 2002 on the conclusion of the agreement on scientific and technological cooperation between the european community and the government of the republic of india.
written. ‒ i support the council's decision to extend the agreement on scientific and technological cooperation between the european community and the government of the republic of india, which aims to enable both parties to continue their cooperation in the areas of science and technology of mutual interest. the commission has also concluded that the agreement is not in the interest of the union and that it is not in the interest of the union to conclude a new agreement with india. the commission has not received any comments from the indian exporting producer on the alleged lack of cooperation.
written. ‒ i support this recommendation on a draft council decision on the extension of the agreement on scientific and technological cooperation between the european community and the government of the republic of india, given that on 25 june 2002 a council decision was adopted on the conclusion of the agreement on scientific and technological cooperation between the european community and the government of the republic of india, on the recommendation of the committee on industry, research and energy.
written. ‒ i support the report on the draft council decision on the extension of the agreement on scientific and technological cooperation between the european community and the government of the republic of india. this cooperation is extremely important and i support giving consent to renew the agreement. the parties shall cooperate in the development of the relevant international standards and standards of quality and safety, including standards for the protection of human health and the environment, and in the implementation of international standards and standards. we need to encourage and facilitate cooperation in research and development activities in the field of science and technology, and in particular in areas of mutual interest between the european community and india. research and development and joint cooperation with other countries in the field of science and technology are fundamental prerequisites for economic growth and development. research and development is one of the main objectives of the europe 2020 strategy, with 3% of the european union's gdp to be invested in research and development.
written. ‒ given the successful cooperation in science and technology between india and the european union since 2001, i voted to renew this agreement as i believe it is in the interest of both parties to maintain continuity in relations in these areas. i support the proposal to enable both sides to improve and strengthen cooperation, as well as to encourage further exchanges of specific knowledge and the transfer of knowledge and experience for the benefit of scientific communities, industry and citizens. the commission has not received any comments from the goi or the goi's representatives on the alleged subsidy. it is for these reasons that i supported the agreement recognising india as a partner for cooperation in the horizon 2020 work programme in areas such as water, nanotechnology and agriculture.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the draft legislative resolution of the european parliament on the draft council decision on the conclusion of the agreement on scientific and technological cooperation between the european union and the faroe islands, which will bring the faroe islands into horizon 2020 as it strengthens research and innovation in the context of the european research area and promotes the free movement and residence of research staff within the framework of the activities covered by this agreement. scientific and technological progress is of paramount importance for the european union's global competitiveness and it is therefore necessary to encourage further participation of actors across the union in research projects and programmes. i consider that this agreement will bring mutual benefits in the common interest and will enhance the union's capacities and capabilities in this sector.
written. ‒ the union and the faroe islands share a common interest in promoting research and innovation in the european research area, and scientific and technological cooperation between the union and the faroe islands under horizon 2020 is of particular importance. the faroe islands, as our european neighbours to the north, fulfil all the conditions for participation in the horizon, and i therefore supported the report by mr buzek.
written. ‒ i welcome the wish of the administration of the faroe islands, an autonomous archipelago under the danish crown, to open up the opportunities for cooperation with the eu offered by horizon 2020, one of the eu's highly promising programmes, to its young people. the parties shall cooperate in the development of the faroe islands' maritime transport policy, including the development of the faroe islands' maritime transport policy, and in the development of the faroe islands' maritime transport policy. the agreement includes regular and ongoing contacts between programme and project managers of the faroe islands and the eu and the participation of experts in seminars, symposia and workshops. in order to stimulate the economy and to involve young people from the predominantly fishing area in cooperation under horizon 2020, i welcome this agreement which will be achieved in enhancing cooperation in the field of science and technology between the faroe islands and the eu.
written. ‒ i support the recommendation of the draft rapporteur given its consent by the european parliament, taking into account the draft agreement on scientific and technological cooperation between the european union and the faroe islands, by which the faroe islands accede to horizon 2020 framework programme for research and innovation (2014.2020.) (14014/2014) and the recommendation of the committee on industry, research and energy (a8-0180/2015).
on 18 march 2014, the council authorised the commission to open negotiations with the faroe islands on behalf of the european union for the conclusion of an agreement for scientific and technological cooperation between the european union and the faroe islands, which would associate the faroe islands to horizon 2020. in order to strengthen its position in the global context, the european union decided to conclude this agreement, which would be mutually beneficial and would ultimately contribute to the scientific excellence and competitiveness of the eu. the parties agree to cooperate in the development of a comprehensive and coherent approach to the management of the financial instruments of the union, including the european regional development fund (erdf), the european social fund (esf), the european regional development fund (erdf) and the european regional development fund (erdf). the special situation of the faroe islands is also recognised, given their small size and population and their proximity to the eu as its european neighbour to the north. taking into account all the above arguments, i support the conclusion of the agreement on scientific and technological cooperation between the european union and the faroe islands.
written. ‒ i support this recommendation of the recommendation on a draft council decision on the conclusion of the agreement on scientific and technological cooperation between the european union and the faroe islands, by which the faroe islands accede to horizon 2020 framework programme for research and innovation (2014-2020) on the recommendation of the committee on industry, research and energy and the draft council decision.
written. ‒ i agree with the above recommendation, given that the faroe islands were linked to the previous framework programme for research and innovation fp7 from 1 january 2010 and that the participation of the faroe islands was very successful, although they were only involved in half of the programme. during this period, the faroe islands gained access to large international research networks and the european research community benefited from the excellent contribution of faroese researchers. the areas where their participation was most relevant were food, agriculture and fisheries, biotechnology and the marine environment, aquaculture and climate change. one of the fp7 projects with the participation of the faroe islands is the thermohaline overturning: at risk? (thor) project. over four years, the thor project has investigated the dynamics of the north atlantic thermohaline ocean (thc) circulation, which carries heat from the tropics to the european coast, strongly influencing the european temperate climate.
written. ‒ i supported the new agreement which will allow the faroe islands to participate in most horizon 2020 programmes, while in return they will pay financial contributions to the european union budget every year. i consider it a particularly useful part of the agreement that the eu-faroe islands research and innovation committee will have the right to monitor the implementation of the agreement, i.e. to assess and review its implementation. i also consider it necessary to have regular discussions on the future direction and priorities of research policies and plans in the faroe islands and in the european union and on the possibilities for future cooperation, as set out in the agreement. i support the position of the agreement to allow the faroe islands to use the financial instruments under horizon 2020 under the same conditions as legal entities established in the member states, provided that the faroe islands regularly report to the union on existing faroese programmes and the possibilities for participation of legal entities established in the european union, as the provisions of the agreement thus demonstrate the mutual benefit of both contracting parties.
written. ‒ i support this long-term shareholder report and corporate governance report. the proposal includes key elements such as shareholder identification for companies, transparency for institutional investors and asset managers, as well as additional controls on the remuneration system. shareholders, especially workers, would have the right to express their views on the report before it's delivered to shareholders, which i also think is a good move.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the draft legislative resolution of the european parliament on the proposal for a directive of the european parliament and of the council amending directive 2007/36/ec as regards the promotion of long-term shareholder engagement and directive 2013/34/eu as regards certain elements of the corporate governance report (com (((2014) 0213 c7-0147/2014 2014/0121 ((cod)) (recast under the ordinary legislative procedure - first reading), as the proposed text, to which i have minor reservations with regard to some of its provisions, is a compromise document allowing the legislative procedure to continue, taking into account that the adoption of the document was delayed at the previous sitting of the european parliament due to the impossibility of reaching a compromise solution and the risk of its failure. i would like to stress that the commission's initial document provides a good basis for further action. the intention of the document is to enhance long-term effects in the management of public limited companies in view of the insufficient development performance of management if it is focused on short-term profits as a result of which there is a deficit in good planning and under-investment in relation to opportunities. the commission notes that the commission has not provided any evidence that the state aid granted to the bank of greece in the form of a guarantee was compatible with the internal market. the commission notes that the commission has not provided any evidence that the measures in question are imputable to the state.
written. ‒ long-term equity gives companies greater stability and encourages them to focus their strategies on long-term financial and non-financial performance. this is why the mechanisms to encourage long-term shareholding contained in the cofferatia report need to be put in place, which is why i supported it. the participation of shareholders in the corporate governance of companies is a lever that can improve the financial and non-financial performance of companies. however, as shareholder rights are not the only long-term factor to be taken into account in corporate governance, it is necessary to accompany them with additional measures to ensure a higher level of participation of all stakeholders, in particular employees, local authorities and civil society.
written. ‒ experience shows that the current management of companies and the supervision of their activities are inadequate. the commission notes that the commission has not provided any evidence that the measures in question were necessary to restore the viability of the bank. it is necessary to enable each shareholder to have information on the identity of each shareholder and investor in the company, in particular in the context of possible loss of profit due to cooperation with a related company which is also an investor in the company. the main challenges are the lack of ability of the company to identify investors, the lack of timely transfer of information and rights in the investment chain and discrimination in the pricing of cross-border investments. the objective is to ensure that investors have clear, comprehensive and comparable information at their disposal, thereby removing barriers to participation, in particular for cross-border investors. the need for greater transparency in the business of listed companies has been demonstrated, but also the lack of, above all, the accumulation of regulations and reporting obligations for all shareholders, as well as the constant fight against tax evasion and tax avoidance. the directive can improve competitiveness and economic growth by creating a stable business environment, reducing administration, reducing taxes, deregulating the market. i have supported the continuation of negotiations on this issue in order to reach the best possible solution.
written. ‒ directive 2007/36/ec of the european parliament and of the council lays down requirements relating to the exercise of certain shareholder rights. that directive should also cover large companies and large groups of companies whose shares are not listed on a regulated market, given that their business also has a high degree of influence. although they do not own corporations, which are separate legal entities not subject to their full control, shareholders have a substantial role in managing them. the financial crisis has shown that in many cases shareholders have supported management in taking excessive short-term risk. the commission notes that the commission has not provided any evidence that the measures in question are imputable to the state. however, given that shareholder rights are not the only long-term factor to be taken into account in corporate governance, they should be accompanied by additional measures to ensure a higher level of participation of all shareholders, in particular employees, local authorities and civil society. i therefore support the report on the proposal for a directive of the european parliament and of the council amending directive 2007/36/ec as regards the promotion of long-term shareholder engagement and directive 2013/34/eu as regards certain elements of the corporate governance report which it rightly highlights.
written. ‒ i support the report by my colleague cofferati on the proposal for a directive amending directive 2007/36/ec as regards the promotion of long-term shareholder engagement and directive 2013/34/eu as regards certain elements of the corporate governance report. within the commission's broader efforts to modernise the legal framework relating to european company law, a special place is given to the regulation of issues such as shareholder participation in corporate governance, the remuneration policy of the board of directors and the distribution of relevant information between the company and the shareholders. since long-term shareholding has a positive impact on the stability of companies by discouraging excessive risk and reducing excessive focus on short-term returns, the establishment and improvement of mechanisms to encourage it is in the interest of economic development. the commission considers that the aid is compatible with the internal market if it is granted to a company in difficulty. the adequate participation of all shareholders, and above all employees, can also improve the quality of corporate governance. the existence of a high level of transparency, including the possibility of identifying shareholders and direct communication by listed companies, is a prerequisite for an effective system of shareholding. in order to ensure that the insurance of shareholder rights does not lead to an unnecessary burden on the companies' business, particular care should be taken.
written. ‒ this proposal contributes to the long-term sustainability of companies in the european union and creates an attractive framework for company shareholders and contributes to greater efficiency for the purpose of creating new jobs, which is important for all member states, and especially for the republic of croatia, where the unemployment rate is 18,4% (april 2015, dzs). furthermore, shareholders play an important role in corporate governance, and the financial crisis has shown that in many cases shareholders have supported corporate management in taking excessive risks. we need to work to improve the transparency of companies and their financial and non-financial performance. in addition, a higher level of participation of all stakeholders, such as employees, regional and local authorities and consumers, should be ensured. the issue of institutional investors' investments is also relevant here. institutional investors are often not transparent about their investment strategies and a clearer transparency and public disclosure of that information would have a positive impact on the awareness of investors such as, for example, future pensioners and beneficiaries of pension schemes. the republic of croatia has a total of more than 1,1 million pension scheme beneficiaries (hzmo, 01/2015), which is more than 25% of the total number of croatian citizens. a higher level of information and transparency is necessary to ensure trust and facilitate the participation of shareholders and other eu citizens in societies and i therefore support this initiative.
written. ‒ the greenhouse gas emissions trading system is an ambitious project that has not proved fully feasible in practice. it was established to meet the eu's emission reduction targets in a coordinated and cost-effective manner. however, at the beginning of the third trading period, the system was characterised by a large imbalance between supply and demand of allowances, leading to the creation of a surplus of around 2 billion allowances. this number is expected to increase over the coming years to more than 2,6 billion emission allowances by 2020. the impact assessment has shown that the establishment of a market security buffer could help to address the current imbalances and make the ets more resilient, and i therefore support this document.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a decision of the european parliament and of the council on the establishment and functioning of the market stability reserve for the union's greenhouse gas emissions trading system and amending directive 2003/87/ec, as such a report would contribute to the effective reform of the emissions trading system (ets) needed to achieve the union's greenhouse gas reduction target. the system should function as an orderly market with stable and competitive prices and reflect the real value of allowances, which is not the case at present and should be changed. i voted in favour of that report in order to adopt further measures to strengthen the ets as soon as possible and to move towards making it more effective.
written. ‒ i supported the report by member of parliament ivo bellet which aims to correct the shortcomings of the greenhouse gas emissions trading system with the aim of promoting emission reductions in a financially and economically efficient way. the purpose of the amendment, namely the establishment of an emissions market reserve, is to ensure market stability and emission reductions by 2020. the current imbalance in the market is due to a mismatch between the supply of emission allowances, which are fixed due to the nature of the eu ets, and the demand side of them, which is primarily dependent on economic cycles, fossil fuel prices, climate policy on renewable energy sources and energy efficiency.
written. ‒ i welcome the establishment of a market stability reserve for the union's greenhouse gas emissions trading system (eu ets). the greenhouse gas emissions trading system is not working well, unfortunately, and needs to be changed, and europe is meeting its targets and its commitments to its partners in the world. based on experience to date, the establishment of this reserve provides several elements. the first is the continuity of the successful implementation of the eu climate and energy policy towards the 2030 target and beyond to 2050. second, greater predictability of the market and resilience to disruption. it's the words safety and resilience that are key when it comes to the economy. the commission should also be able to assess the impact of the measures on the environment and the environment-related costs of the union's actions. i want the establishment of a greenhouse gas trading market stability reserve to ensure that necessary stability, just as i want our industry to remain among the world's leaders, but at the same time to be grounded in responsibility for the planet and for generations to come. by its example, the eu can also influence other world economies to join the common effort and learn from our positive experiences.
the commission has also adopted a communication on the implementation of the european union strategy for climate action, which aims to improve the climate and energy security of the union by promoting the use of renewable energy sources and the use of renewable energy sources in the union. i support the commission's proposal to implement a market stability reserve based on structural reforms in order to avoid short-term interventions in favour of long-term predictability and stability of the industry. i also believe that further discussion on the improvement of the allocation of allowances will be necessary, in particular with regard to the change in production levels. as a signatory to the kyoto protocol, the republic of croatia is obliged to establish a national system for monitoring greenhouse gas emissions in the country and to prepare a greenhouse gas emissions report on an annual basis and to submit it to the secretariat of the unfccc (by 30 april of the current year) and to the european commission (by 31 january of the current year) on which it is working. finally, i support the commission's efforts to consider the creation of a harmonised mechanism across the union to offset carbon costs and ensure a level playing field on this issue at both eu and global level.
written. ‒ i support the report by my colleague mr iv beleta on the proposal for a decision of the european parliament and of the council on the establishment and operation of a market stability reserve for the union's greenhouse gas emissions trading system and amending directive 2003/87/ec. the commission report to the european parliament and the council on the state of the european carbon market in 2012 identified the need for measures to address structural imbalances between supply and demand. the commission should be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 21 to supplement this regulation by laying down detailed rules for the application of this regulation. the linear factor change only gradually changes the upper bound. accordingly, the surplus would only gradually decrease and the market would have to continue to operate for more than a decade with an excess of around 2 billion or more emission units. in order to address this problem and to increase the resilience of the european emissions trading system (ets) to imbalances, it is necessary to establish a market stability reserve. in addition to the establishment of a market stability reserve, appropriate amendments to directive 2003/87/ec are necessary as its application may lead to large volumes of allowances to be auctioned at the end of each trading period, which may jeopardise market stability.
written. ‒ i support the proposal to establish and operate a market stability reserve for the union's greenhouse gas emissions trading system and to amend directive 2003/87/ec as it is a structural decision that should consolidate the european union's decision to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and to trade them. i believe that the new directive will contribute to the stability of the market and its predictability in the future. controlling greenhouse gas emissions is a key part of the european union's climate policy and must be in all our interests for the future sustainable development of the economy.
written. ‒ i support the report on the proposal for a decision of the european parliament and of the council on the establishment and functioning of the market stability reserve for the union's greenhouse gas emissions trading system and amending directive 2003/87/ec. in january 2014, the commission adopted the ets-msr proposal with the aim of structural changes to the emissions trading system (ets) to address excess emission allowances. the commission shall submit a proposal to the european parliament and to the council within six months of the adoption of the msf. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's policy on the environment and climate change, and will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's policy on climate change and its impact on the environment.
written. ‒ as i am against the manipulation of emission trading prices on the grounds that i believe that the market should set the price, i cannot support this report. i also consider unfair the disregard of the agreement of the last parliamentary term that 900 million emission allowance trading units should be withdrawn from the market and returned to it in 2019-2020 and the current decision to go to the reserve instead, which is extremely unprincipled.
written. ‒ i support this report because it seeks to protect seafarers in exercising their rights. some directives have so far led to the same categories of workers potentially being treated differently in different eu member states. the proposed directive seeks to put an end to this and to ensure equal rights and equal treatment for seafarers as well.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a directive of the european parliament and of the council on seafarers and amending directives 2008/94/ec, 2009/38/ec, 2002/14/ec, 98/59/ec and 2001/23/ec because i believe that the proposal for a directive aims at the necessary changes for a level playing field for seafarers at international level. the amendments make it clear that seafarers have the right to a safe workplace, safety standards, fair employment conditions, decent living and working conditions, with social protection and vocational training, which i certainly support. i also welcome the involvement of the social partners, who have contributed to enhancing the attractiveness of the maritime sector, which has been weakened in recent years.
written. ‒ the commission's communication 'blue growth - sustainable growth opportunities in the marine and maritime sector' highlights that the 'blue' economy represents 5.4 million jobs and generates almost €500 billion of added value a year. the objective of this document is to emphasise that seafarers have the right to a safe and secure workplace in accordance with safety standards, fair terms of employment, decent working and living conditions, including social protection and vocational training. it is also of particular importance that those provisions be transposed into national law as soon as possible in order to enable the objectives set to be attained as rapidly as possible. it is important to protect the rights of seafarers also in the context of communication systems in order to ensure freedom of communication on board vessels. all of this should improve the position of seafarers and ensure adequate protection in this profession and that is why i supported the report.
written. ‒ the old european proverb about 'bread with seven crusts' in croatia is sometimes used to describe the painstaking work of seamen. with the technology available today, the life of a seafarer can and should be easier for all involved. the dangers that sailors face daily, from natural disasters to piracy, make this difficult profession risky enough. the amendment of this directive seeks to ensure that seafarers have the right to a safe and secure workplace in accordance with safety standards, fair employment conditions, decent living and working conditions, including social protection and the necessary vocational training. the union should aim to improve working and living conditions on board vessels and to harness the potential of innovation to make the maritime sector more attractive to union seafarers and young workers. the commission should therefore develop a programme to encourage young workers to become involved in this sector. the commission should also seek to improve internet communication on board ships, for example by improving internet availability and ensuring its legitimate use on board. the promotion of seafarers' rights requires the promotion of maritime clusters, encouraging the involvement of young people in the maritime and fisheries sector. the need to continue to promote the training of seafarers in all sectors. improving the working conditions of seafarers requires a multi-sectoral approach and implies an understanding of the specificities of each sector.
written. ‒ i support the report by the moric-chartier college on the proposal for a directive of the european parliament and of the council on seafarers and amending directives 2008/94/ec, 2009/38/ec, 2002/14/ec, 98/59/ec and 2001/23/ec. i welcome the fact that the directive is fully in line with the blue book, which emphasises the need to increase the number and quality of maritime jobs for european citizens, and the importance of improving working conditions on board vessels, inter alia, by investing in research, education, training, health and safety. the current legal situation, which is partly due to the specific nature of the maritime profession, allows different treatment of the same category of workers by different member states, depending on whether those member states apply the exceptions and derogations allowed by the current legislation. a significant number of member states apply these exceptions and derogations in part, and eight member states do not apply them at all, but seafarers are covered by collective bargaining agreements which give them a certain degree of protection, which is why i, as a representative from a maritime country, am particularly pleased that this issue is also regulated. the social partners in the maritime and fisheries sectors have reached an agreement which is of key importance for the proper implementation of this directive. this agreement strikes a good balance between the need to improve the working conditions of seafarers and the need to take account of the specificities of the sector.
written. ‒ i support the report by mrs elisabeth morin-chartier on the proposal for a directive of the european parliament and of the council on seafarers and amending directives 2008/94/ec, 2009/38/ec, 2002/14/ec, 98/59/ec and 2001/23/ec, given the nature of the amendment, the nature of the sector and the principle of procedural economy, it is better to amend the various directives by means of a single directive. since the current legal situation allows different treatment of the same category of workers by different member states, depending on whether or not those member states apply the exceptions and derogations allowed by the current legislation, this proposal for a directive would ensure a level playing field for all, at least at the level of vessels flying the flag of a member state of the union. the proposal amends five existing directives. in particular, it recognises the unconditional right of workers on long-distance ships to information and advice in all the directives which previously allowed for exceptions and derogations from this right (the european works council directive, the directive on information and consultation, the directive on collective cancellations, the directive on the transfer of undertakings). the procedures for informing and advising employees contribute to improving corporate governance and reducing the negative consequences of sudden restructuring. companies will benefit from a better flow of information on company strategy and the reasons for certain decisions to employees, especially during transitions, without significant costs for the employer.
written. ‒ i support the proposal to amend directives 2008/94/ec, 2009/38/ec, 2002/14/ec, 98/59/ec and 2001/23/ec as it concerns the improvement of working conditions for seafarers and seafarers and in small and family shipping companies. i believe they deserve better and more equal working conditions, which this amendment to the directive is achieving.
written. ‒ i support the report on the proposal for a directive of the european parliament and of the council on seafarers and amending directives 2008/94/ec, 2009/38/ec, 2002/14/ec, 98/59/ec and 2001/23/ec. the commission proposal seeks to improve the working conditions of seafarers on board ships flying the flag of one of the 28 eu member states, taking into account the maritime sector specificity rule. the committee on employment and social affairs rejected the draft report on this proposal for a directive, mainly because the draft report was drawn up in great haste due to lack of time. the situation has changed since then, with an important agreement on the commission's proposal between the social partners being reached a few weeks ago. the rapporteur warmly welcomes the progress that has led to this agreement, which addresses the situation in which seafarers have been discriminated against. it also thanks the social partners for their joint efforts, which will be made for the maritime sector, which has lost a lot in the last few years.
written. ‒ as a croatian mep, i am aware of the fact that the nature of the maritime sector has been seen as an obstacle to informing and advising workers and the use of electronic means of communication on board vessels on the high seas seems expensive and unjustified, making this sector unattractive to eu citizens. while i support in principle the part of the directive that encourages improvements in working and living conditions on board vessels and innovation in the maritime sector to make it more attractive to young workers, i consider that the global nature of the maritime sector combined with the practical difficulties of defining jurisdiction relating to a specific group of seafarers makes it difficult to apply labour law at national and european union level and therefore i consider that deepening and broadening legislative measures could put member states at a competitive disadvantage vis-à-vis third countries; which could ultimately result in worse employment conditions for seafarers in european waters. for the reasons i have just given, i have abstained.
written. ‒ i support this report on the agreement on cooperation in science and technology with switzerland. the commission should be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 290 concerning the conditions for the participation of the european atomic energy community in the union programme for research and technological development (euratom) and the conditions for the participation of the european atomic energy community in horizon 2020. i believe that we must continue to work together in the future in the field of science and technology.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the draft legislative resolution of the european parliament on the draft council decision on the conclusion of the agreement on scientific and technological cooperation with switzerland: horizon 2020 and the activities of iter because of the exceptional importance that science and technology have in today's globalised world. i believe that cooperation with switzerland is in the interest of both parties and will certainly have positive effects on the further development of the sector, while at the same time representing cooperation that is important for the european continent as a whole. i also support the participation of the swiss confederation in horizon 2020 and iter, as it is in the framework of these that the global state of technology and science is being improved, and international and regional synergies further encourage the development and implementation of such activities.
written. ‒ by the agreement on scientific and technological cooperation between the european union, i.e. the european atomic energy community and the swiss confederation, switzerland is joining the european atomic energy community's research, innovation and training programme horizon 2020. given that both parties had previously expressed their wish to continue long-term cooperation in the field of controlled thermonuclear fusion and physics, and that all the conditions laid down in the provisions of the treaty on the functioning of the european union and the treaty establishing the european atomic energy community had been met, i supported the report by mr buzek.
written. ‒ the cooperation between the eu and switzerland in the field of nuclear research, as well as elementary particle research, is the pinnacle of today's global science. such cooperation sometimes has a global dimension and the success of the projects implemented has long-term economic and political implications at both the internal (between the eu and switzerland) and global levels. this new agreement joins switzerland to the horizon 2020 framework programme for research and innovation, which governs switzerland's participation in iter activities. the iter programme is one of the projects that enable the development of technology for cheap energy production through controlled fusion. the only thing missing is the proper engineering to control the plasma in the electromagnetic field, and that's why the project is delayed. the results achieved from the cooperation so far have led to the desire and need to continue that cooperation, which speaks of the effectiveness of joint action in the field of science and technology. i therefore believe that the continuation of cooperation will also lead to valuable new research (and of course results) beneficial for both sides and i support the conclusion of a scientific and technological cooperation agreement with switzerland.
written. ‒ i support the rapporteur's recommendation on the draft council decision on the conclusion of the agreement on scientific and technological cooperation between the european union and the european atomic energy community and the swiss confederation, by which the swiss confederation accedes to horizon 2020 - the framework programme for research and innovation and the research and training programme of the european atomic energy community, which complements horizon 2020, and governs the participation of the swiss confederation in the iter activities implemented by fusion for energy, adopted on 28 may 2015. as a representative from croatia, a country whose citizens were directly discriminated against by employment outcomes, i am particularly pleased that this issue has been regulated and that switzerland will participate fully in horizon 2020.
written. ‒ i support the council decision on the conclusion of the agreement on scientific and technological cooperation between the european union, the european atomic energy community and the swiss confederation. the objective of this agreement is to associate switzerland to horizon 2020 - the framework programme for research and innovation and the research and training programme of the european atomic energy community complementing horizon 2020 - and to regulate switzerland's participation in the iter activities carried out by fusion for energy. the commission considers that the swiss authorities have not provided sufficient evidence to support the conclusion of the agreement. they clearly confirm their desire to continue their long-term cooperation in the field of controlled thermonuclear fusion and plasma physics on the basis of a new framework and instruments that will provide support to research activities.
written. ‒ i support this recommendation on a draft council decision on the conclusion of the agreement on scientific and technological cooperation between the european union and the european atomic energy community and the swiss confederation, by which the swiss confederation accedes to horizon 2020 - the framework programme for research and innovation and the research and training programme of the european atomic energy community, which complements horizon 2020, and governs the participation of the swiss confederation in the iter activities implemented by fusion for energy, in accordance with the draft council decision and the recommendation of the committee on industry, research and energy.
written. - this agreement is of great importance to our scientific community. the eu will also provide a platform for the exchange of information on the eu's research and innovation policy and on the eu's research and innovation policy. at the same time, it is crucial for switzerland to have access to mobility programmes for researchers such as the marie curie skłodowska programme. furthermore, by this agreement, switzerland renews its commitment to our long-standing and fruitful cooperation. research and technology cooperation between the european union and switzerland began as far back as 1978 when the 'historic partnership' for euratom was established. in the last programme (fp7, 2007-2013), switzerland had a very active participation with 4457 swiss participants in 3404 signed grant agreements, which places switzerland first among the partner countries in terms of number of participation and budget allocation. the commission shall be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 290 concerning the establishment of a european agency for the operational management of large-scale it systems in the area of freedom, security and justice, in particular with regard to the establishment of a european data protection supervisor. the commission will also be assisted by the european parliament and the council.
written. ‒ i support this report, which is positive and includes several key issues: sustainable and quality job creation, decent working conditions, a decent wage set through collective bargaining, the fight against poverty. the creation of quality new jobs should be a european priority, and this allows people to have a decent standard of living.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the draft proposal for a council decision on guidelines for the employment policies of the member states because it contains very useful and concrete proposals on the direction the union and the member states should take in order to implement reforms and harmonise employment strategies, increase labour market opportunities, combat social exclusion and all forms of poverty, create the necessary skills and knowledge needed in the labour market, encourage youth entrepreneurship, and establish micro, small and medium-sized enterprises, increase the employment rate of women, and promote green, blue and white jobs. i therefore voted in favour of this proposal and i believe that success in this area requires ambitious, effective and coordinated policy action at union and member state level.
written. ‒ the current crisis has led to the loss of many jobs. moreover, increasingly complex political and economic relations threaten the potential loss of even more jobs. the commission has also provided information on the impact of the measures on the union industry. the purpose is to ensure effective governance in the formulation and implementation of national policies. the effective management and implementation of the measures envisaged is a very important item, especially for developing countries. the guidelines focus on the proper functioning of the labour market, labour supply and demand, and the promotion of equal opportunities. i supported the report by mrs agee which stressed the importance of combating youth unemployment, preventing early school leaving, encouraging entrepreneurship among young people, building education systems with a focus on practice and improving the link between education and the labour market.
written. ‒ economic and employment policy is a matter that member states should regard as a matter of common interest. the guidelines for these two policies were therefore presented together in the 'integrated package' of 2010 as two different but intertwined policies. these guidelines support the europe 2020 strategy as they are based on investment and fiscal responsibility. the achievement of the european economic policy objectives is paramount to achieving and maintaining constant growth, which is of great importance for each of the member states of the european union. any investment and reform drive can lead to this goal, as well as to a stronger labour market and a greater supply of jobs. i believe that the first thing that needs to be done is to increase the supply of jobs so that people in the european union can work and improve their skills and become competitive in the labour market. promoting equal opportunities and ensuring fair employment contributes to achieving the objectives, but also to creating a real market that includes the fight against poverty within the guidelines, which i consider to be an important segment in the employment aspect of the member states.
written. ‒ the union must combat social exclusion, all forms of poverty and discrimination, ensure equal access to fundamental rights and promote social justice and protection. i therefore support the rapporteur's proposal that the european parliament and the council, through the employment guidelines and the broad economic policy guidelines, ensure a more democratic decision-making process that affects citizens and labour markets in the union. the integrated guidelines must, in the first instance, enable member states to adopt sustainable and integrated economic models at union, national and local level. member states should, taking into account national practices relating to the responsibility of employers and workers, regard the promotion of employment as a priority and a matter of common interest and coordinate their action in this regard within the council. the union should accompany those efforts with policy proposals to achieve the objectives of the treaty and to guarantee an inclusive and integrated labour market and satisfactory working conditions in the union, including adequate pay, made possible by collective bargaining. croatia has shifted its focus to human capital and positive steps have been noted in the recovery of its economy. in the first quarter of this year, the average number of employed persons was 1,543 million, which is almost 9 thousand less than in the previous quarter (-0.6%), while on an annual level, the number of employees increased by 34 thousand (+2.2%).
written. ‒ i support the report by the rapporteur, mrs ageae, on the proposal for a council decision on guidelines for the employment policies of the member states. the commission notes that the commission has not provided any evidence that the measure is compatible with the internal market. the recruitment guidelines were adopted accordingly. the commission shall be assisted by the european parliament and the council, acting by a qualified majority on a proposal from the commission, and by the european parliament and the council, acting by a qualified majority on a proposal from the commission. the integrated guidelines should at the same time support the achievement of smart, sustainable and inclusive growth and the objectives of the european semester for economic policy coordination. these are: boosting investment, increasing growth through structural reforms, removing the main obstacles to growth and job creation at eu level, increasing the sustainability of public finances and their growth-friendliness, increasing labour demand, increasing the supply of labour and labour skills, improving the functioning of labour markets and ensuring fairness, combating poverty and promoting equal opportunities.
written. ‒ i support the report on the proposal for a council decision on guidelines for the employment policies of the member states because the member states and the european union need to have well-designed strategies to combat unemployment and its consequences. it shall in particular aim at achieving full employment and social progress and promote training in science, technology, engineering and mathematics. in addition, there is a need to increase the employment of workers with low levels of education, as well as those who cannot complete their education and skills quickly. in particular, poverty in all its forms needs to be eradicated and member states should therefore also coordinate their social policies within the council. the republic of croatia, where i come from, is also struggling with unemployment, especially among young people, so it is important to start implementing measures to change this as soon as possible.
written. ‒ i support this proposal for a council decision on guidelines for the employment policies of the member states because this council decision encourages the reduction of unemployment which is necessary to get out of the economic crisis and increase economic growth. the eu should work for an integrated labour market and in particular for good working conditions. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's macro-financial assistance to the countries of central and eastern europe, including the countries of the former soviet union, and will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's macro-financial assistance to the countries of central and eastern europe. this decision would encourage and increase the employment of lower-skilled workers. the decision provides for plans to employ young educated people so that they can be involved in the labour market. other objectives of the decision include, inter alia, combating discrimination in the labour market, especially against older people, women, people with special needs, foreigners, and tackling problems such as undeclared work, contracts without working hours, etc. such changes have a positive impact on the eu's economic growth and development, reduce unemployment and encourage the employment of both older and younger people.
written. ‒ while i support the part of the report that emphasises the burden-relieving effect on smes in the european union, i cannot agree with the provisions in the report that constitute a direct breach of the principles of proportionality and subsidiarity. the demands contained in the report, such as the creation of a labour market based on workers' rights, a guaranteed minimum income, decent working conditions throughout the union, including adequate wages achieved through collective bargaining, economic governance in the european union, etc., i consider to be totally unacceptable and an excessive intrusion into the segment that should be the exclusive competence of the member states of the union. that's why i voted against it.
written. ‒ broadcom communications finland's request for financial assistance is in line with eu rules. 568 workers need help.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a decision of the european parliament and of the council on the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund, in accordance with point 13 of the interinstitutional agreement of 2 december 2013 between the european parliament, the council and the commission on budgetary discipline, on cooperation in budgetary matters and on sound financial management, as i consider that there is a need to support workers who, after losing their jobs, need to reintegrate into the labour market. the large structural changes in world trends, globalisation and the financial crisis have led to the consequent large number of redundancies at broadcom, a company whose negative developments affect the entire electronics industry in finland. the european globalisation adjustment fund should certainly be mobilised to provide a financial contribution of eur 1 365 000 in the form of allowances, subsidies, travel expenses, accommodation costs and other means of assistance to redundant workers.
‒ on 30 january 2015, the finnish authorities submitted an application to mobilise the european globalisation adjustment fund in the amount of eur 1,3 million to help former broadcom employees. the european globalisation adjustment fund was created to provide assistance to former employees in finding a new job, education or self-employment, who have lost their jobs as a result of globalisation and the financial and economic crisis. the finnish company broadcom communications had to lay off 568 employees because of asian countries becoming leaders in the field of electrical engineering and other structural changes caused by globalization. the fund shall be used for programmes to assist with transition to a new job, self-employment, training and education. i support the request to mobilise the european globalisation adjustment fund for finnish broadcom and welcome the messages of the report which recall the importance of the fund and the programmes it funds.
‒ the european union, with its political and economic influence as a market of 500 million inhabitants on the global market, provides a favourable position for the economies of the member states. however, from time to time, globalisation has meant that some european companies have not been able to keep up with the pace of the global market. the european union has established legislative and budgetary instruments to provide additional support to workers affected by the consequences of structural changes in world trade patterns and the global financial and economic crisis and to assist them in their reintegration into the labour market. these are the problems that affected broadcom communications of finland and their two suppliers and manufacturers and that resulted in the 563 workers being declared redundant by these companies. by its resolution on the proposal for a decision of the european parliament and of the council on the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund, the european parliament, in accordance with its powers, provided assistance to finland for redundancies. the commission notes that the commission has not provided any evidence that the aid is compatible with the internal market. the redundancies will further aggravate the unemployment problem, especially in the pohjois-pohjanmaa region, where 424 of a total of 568 workers have been laid off. i supported the decision as it meets the eligibility criteria set out in the egf regulation and as an expression of the necessary solidarity with the workers in finland.
written. ‒ as the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) was established to provide support for workers made redundant and self-employed persons whose activity has ceased as a result of major structural changes in world trade patterns caused by globalisation, the prolonged global financial and economic crisis referred to in regulation (ec) no 546/2009 (3) or the new global financial and economic crisis, and to assist them in reintegrating into the labour market, i support the decision to mobilise the egf from the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2015 to provide a total of eur 1 365 000 in commitment and payment appropriations for the purpose of wage integration of up to 568 finnish broadcasting companies. member states should show solidarity with each other where necessary and the commission should assist them in doing so in order to ensure that the funds from this fund are spent in the fairest and most transparent way.
the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) was established to provide additional support to workers affected by the consequences of major structural changes in international trade and to help them reintegrate into the labour market and find a new job. it is necessary that union financial assistance to workers made redundant is dynamic and available as quickly and efficiently as possible. following the redundancies of 568 workers at broadcom communications finland, finland submitted an application for a financial contribution from the egf in the form of an egf/2015/001 application. the report states that these redundancies will further aggravate the unemployment problem, especially in the pohjois-pohjanmaa region where 424 of the 568 redundancies occurred and where the unemployment rate is continuously several percentage points higher than the national average. with a view to helping displaced workers to be trained and re-qualified for new jobs, i support the report by rapporteur petri savrama on the mobilisation of eur 1 365 000.
written. ‒ i support the report to reintegrate workers affected by the consequences of the financial and economic crisis into the labour market. following the redundancies of 568 employees at broadcom communications finland, finland submitted an application fulfilling all the criteria for a financial contribution. moreover, the redundancies in broadcom are linked to negative developments that have affected the electronics industry in finland, and these redundancies will further aggravate the unemployment problem. finland will prepare three measures to assist redundant workers, namely transition assistance, assistance to start up their own business and provision of training or education. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's macro-financial assistance in the form of grants and loans. the finnish authorities have set a positive example by consulting the targeted beneficiaries, their representatives and social partners, and local and regional authorities.
written. ‒ i support the request to mobilise the european globalisation adjustment fund primarily because it looks after and promotes workers' rights. the eu has both the legal and financial instruments to deal with the consequences of the global market and to take care of the surplus workers and their reintegration into society. such assistance should be dynamic and readily available to anyone who requests it. i support the commission's decision to grant finland a total of eur 1 365 000 under the terms of the egf agreement and also commend the speed with which this situation was resolved in less than 5 months from the date of the application for funding. i would like to point out that finland is planning three types of measures to deal with surplus workers, namely: transition assistance, help to start up a business and the provision of retraining or education. i think it is very important that workers use what the state provides them in the form of education or training, for the purpose of finding a new job, because surplus workers can have a negative impact on both countries and the eu as a whole, and this is something we must fight against together.
written. ‒ while i support the european union's measures to achieve growth and create jobs, i do not think that the european globalisation adjustment fund is the right instrument or an effective tool to give financial assistance to countries to bring redundant workers back into the labour market. accordingly, i do not support the measure to provide financial assistance to the dismissed employees of the american broadcom company in finland. the commission therefore concludes that the measures in question constitute state aid within the meaning of article 107 (1) of the treaty. although the proposed financing of the 500 redundant workers includes active recruitment measures, i am of the opinion that this amount of eur 1,3 million cannot solve the problem of rising unemployment in finland or adequately help the redundant workers to find new jobs. if member states, including finland, do not change the framework of their business and increase competitiveness on the global market through tax relief and the removal of bureaucratic barriers, they will not be able to retain foreign investors and companies. that is why i voted against this report.
written. ‒ as the shadow rapporteur on the budget of the committee on gender equality on the issues of the trilogue mandate, the budgetary opinion and the budget itself, i support this proposal.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution of the european parliament on the mandate for the trialogue on the draft budget for 2016 because it is necessary to provide concrete solutions that will be able to counter the loss of competitiveness and the structural challenges. i fully support the inclusion of the european fund for strategic investments in the 2016 draft budget and the promotion of cohesion policy, which is the largest investment policy within the european union. the budget planning for the coming year must take account of financing for small and medium-sized enterprises, strengthening entrepreneurship as a whole, improving agricultural, security and migration policies in order to enable economic growth and boost competitiveness. however, it is also necessary to take into account the fact that certain programmes under the multiannual financial framework are not yet developed as planned due to certain technical and other problems, such as the adoption of operational programmes, and that additional attention should be paid to this. the better the budget is planned and structured, the more likely it is that the objectives and policies the european union has set itself will be achieved in line with the economic and social challenges.
written. ‒ i supported the 2016 draft budget which contains targets for compliance with commitments and financial priorities. good budgetary management is particularly important in order to ensure that all commitments are met on time and that payments are not late.
‒ in its resolution of 11 march 2015, the european parliament set out guidelines for creating more jobs within all member states, developing small and medium-sized enterprises and sustainable and inclusive growth across the european union. in particular, it emphasises the strengthening of support for the development of youth programmes such as erasmus+, and the creation and implementation of various initiatives to lead to more open and increased youth employment. i supported this resolution on the mandate for the trialogue because it stresses the need to provide aid to those in need and because it promotes the fundamental values of the european union such as equality, transparency and the fight against poverty. i support the mandate for the trialogue because it puts the emphasis on security in the area of asylum, migration and the management of external borders, which are currently some of the most important issues facing the european union and which need to be addressed constructively. achieving more employment, integrating young, skilled and educated people into the labour market, and supporting small and medium-sized enterprises and entrepreneurship across the european union will ensure and help economic growth across the eu in the year ahead.
the commission shall be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 290 concerning the conditions for the participation of the efta states in union programmes. the funding of the youth employment initiative (yei) should be a key tool in the fight against youth unemployment in the european union, for which funding should be increased and clearly secured in the 2016 budget. the 2016 budget should also include concrete measures to address the backlog of payments, as well as a specific budget line for migrants and asylum seekers who are increasingly trying to reach the european union. member states must show solidarity among themselves so that the financial burden of caring for these people does not fall on individual member states, already hit by the financial crisis.
written. ‒ i support the draft budget for 2016 because the proposals and projects proposed by parliament in its resolution of 11 march 2015 have been accepted. i am pleased that the commission has included job creation and the development of entrepreneurship and business creation in its draft. i support the continuation of funding for the priority projects that parliament has highlighted in previous proposals. i regret that the commission has decided to reduce the funding for the enterprise competitiveness programme and for smes by a nominal amount. i consider that this programme continues to be of high importance for the development of the european union's economy and entrepreneurship. i also believe that more resources should be directed to the youth employment initiative, as it is the main instrument for combating youth unemployment in the countries of the european union.
written. ‒ while i think there are a number of useful features in this report, such as focusing on investment, knowledge, promoting entrepreneurship and creating jobs and growth, it is essential to note that in order to ensure that taxpayers' money is spent correctly and efficiently, it is crucial to limit consumption and reduce losses and inefficiencies. the commission has also received a number of comments from the member states, including from the commission, which have been taken into account in the assessment of the impact of the measures. i think we need to be extremely careful to be able to offset last year's increased spending by unexpected mobilizations, and create savings to respond to unforeseen circumstances. this proposal fails to achieve the purpose for which it was made, which is to spend wisely. the commission therefore concluded that the union industry did not suffer material injury within the meaning of article 3 (5) of the basic regulation.
written. ‒ i support this report because it supports the european commission's approach to the transition to a green economy. the green employment initiative is an integrated framework that enables the labour market to play an active role in the transition to a green economy and establishes adequate policies to enable workers to adapt to structural change. the aim is to create sustainable and quality jobs.
written. ‒ i voted for the report on the employment initiative: harnessing the potential of the green economy for job creation, because at this moment, when we are reaching the limit of unsustainable pressure on the environment and climate change, and at the same time inefficient use of resources, initiatives like this to promote the green economy are not only commendable, but extremely necessary. facts and statistics clearly show that the green economy sector is growing and creating many jobs every year. the european environment agency reports that more than 1.3 million jobs were created between 2000 and 2001 because of growth in the services and green goods sectors. creating much-needed and sustainable jobs, in particular by encouraging small and medium-sized enterprises, increasing labour market opportunities, strengthening the competitiveness of the european economy and industry, and reducing europe's energy dependence are just some of the positive aspects of this initiative and the report that i voted for.
written. ‒ i supported the green employment report to harness the job-creating potential of the green economy. the commission will continue to support the implementation of the green growth action plan, which provides guidance to all member states on how to help businesses take advantage of the eu's green transition funding. according to the latest statistics, as of may 2015, there were more than 23 million unemployed people in the european union. in this context, youth unemployment is a major problem, and the republic of croatia is one of the member states with the worst statistics, with more than 75 thousand people under 30 without work. on the other hand, we are witnessing climate change and weather disasters caused by years of environmental neglect and unreasonable use of resources. i supported the report by mep jean lambert which links two of the european commission's priorities to two major problems: unemployment and the environment. in april 2012, the european commission published an employment package that defined the green economy as a key source of job creation. the two biggest challenges we have yet to address are the development of green jobs in environmentally-related industries and the support for the 'greening' of traditional industries.
written. ‒ the current system is facing many obstacles and is becoming unsustainable, so there is a need for innovation and a system that will create new jobs and encourage a consumer society to move towards a circular economy. one of the job opportunities is the green jobs initiative, which creates not only new jobs but also potential growth in the green economy. the commission shall, by means of implementing acts, lay down the rules on the participation of third countries in union programmes in accordance with article 21 of the financial regulation. croatia has a great opportunity in this segment because the green employment initiative links green growth and job creation and promotes a circular economy. the commission should be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 290 tfeu concerning the conditions for the participation of undertakings in the award of public contracts. i therefore advocate supporting those economic activities which create new jobs, protect the social security of employees and protect the environment.
‒ the european environment agency in its 2015 report pointed out that current measures are not sufficient to achieve the objectives of preserving biodiversity, reducing fossil fuel use and combating climate change and its impacts on human health and the environment. therefore, i support the rapporteur's proposal proposing measures to harness the potential of the green economy for job creation, given the risk of inefficient use of resources, unsustainable pressure on the environment and climate change that could cause irreversible effects on society and its natural environment. the renewable energy economy has already shown good results, with the green goods and services sector growing by more than 50% between 2000 and 2011, creating more than 1,3 million jobs, and the commission estimating that the renewable energy economy will create 20 million new jobs in europe by 2020. in croatia, the link between job growth and the environmental protection segment is also recognized, which, according to research, would allow the number of jobs to double in the short term from 6,000 to 12,000, and the development of a low-carbon economy to create 80,000 new, green jobs by 2050.
written. ‒ i support the report by mrs lambert on the use of the green economy for new jobs. in order to achieve the commission's target of 20 million jobs created by 2020 through the use of renewable energy sources, member states should create a new regulatory, fiscal and financial framework geared towards innovation and the sustainable use of natural resources. the major challenge will be to prepare for a low-carbon future, to effectively combat climate change and to effectively transition jobs to sustainable societies and economies. as a representative from croatia, i consider it important to develop social awareness of the green economy through two elements sustainability and the creation of new value. i believe that local units are best placed to implement the transition to a green economy in the areas of infrastructure, support for local businesses and stable employment. the commission should also be able to provide the union with a comprehensive list of the measures that it considers necessary to implement the union's policy on climate change. tax incentives for start-ups and smes offering goods and services with environmental added value would also be beneficial. the commission and the member states should continue to work in close coordination with the juncker plan for a european energy union. the commission should also be able to provide information on the implementation of the union's energy policy. the final effect will be a geostrategically significant reduction in the union's energy dependence, while at the same time making energy more accessible and cheaper.
written. ‒ i support the green jobs initiative report because the european environment agency has found that current measures to conserve biodiversity, reduce fossil fuel use and combat climate change and its impacts on human health and the environment are not sufficient. attention should be paid to the labour force in the context of re-employment or retraining in the areas prioritised by the commission's programme. according to the european environment agency, the green goods and services sector has grown by 50%, leading to the creation of new jobs, while the renewable economy is estimated to create another 20 million jobs by 2020. it is also necessary to make the transition to an environmentally sustainable economy, taking into account sustainable and long-term employment for all, taking into account social inclusion and poverty eradication.
written. ‒ i strongly oppose the overly invasive and disproportionate measures in this report, such as the creation of a financial transaction tax, decent jobs through the influence on public procurement power through social and environmental clauses, the legal obligation for employers to include employee representatives in green employment programmes, etc. i firmly believe that they unnecessarily encroach on the competences of individual member states of the union and aggressively undermine the principle of subsidiarity, according to which problems should be solved at the lowest level, or where they arise, if possible.
written. ‒ i support this report because it makes important recommendations on the problems of tax avoidance and evasion in developing countries. in particular, it welcomed the recommendations for financial and technical support to developing countries to address this problem, the exchange of information between countries and the creation of an intergovernmental body in which developing countries would participate on an equal footing in the global reform of existing international tax rules.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the european parliament's motion for a resolution on tax avoidance and evasion as challenges to governance, social protection and development in developing countries because this motion insists that tax policy processes be based on credible financial data, regular and complete reporting, and the principle of transparency in order to improve the global system in this sector. i agree with support to developing countries and regional tax administrations in the fight against tax avoidance and evasion, and additional financial and technical measures to ensure that tax policies are subject to fairness, efficiency and balance. in this context, mobilising domestic resources and strengthening tax systems is of particular importance, leading to the reduction of inequalities, poverty reduction and the establishment of an efficient state.
written. ‒ i supported the report on tax avoidance and evasion as challenges to governance, social protection and development in developing countries by rapporteur elly schlein. the report identifies a whole range of problems that are important to solve and reduces this problem to the lowest possible level. for example, in the republic of croatia too, the highest number of offences relates to economic offences involving tax evasion. it is necessary to develop a plan to support developing countries in the fight against tax evasion and avoidance and to strengthen the tax systems of developing countries. in this way, the stability of the welfare state and the system of solidarity for all citizens can continue to be ensured.
written. ‒ paying taxes is an obligation of a citizen of a member state of the european union, but it is also a sign of genuine respect for the motherland, and a concern for the welfare of society and its progress in all its forms. taxation is also an obligation for companies, which the state guarantees real security, and the european union opens up opportunities for better business both globally and in developing countries. however, some companies do not act in this spirit and hide their ownership and co-ownership in various ways. at the expense of citizens, they use financial and legal evasions to avoid paying taxes and are often involved in various forms of tax evasion, embezzlement, and money laundering. to prevent the exploitation of citizens, taxpayers, and avoid opaque cash flows, the resolution calls for the establishment of a reporting system whereby companies, along with their annual accounts, would also publish the names of all subsidiaries or companies in which they have a stake, their results individually, taxation, number of employees and assets. i support this resolution as it calls for the implementation of measures aimed at preventing these negative phenomena and i welcome the additional requirements, which include the establishment of a blacklist of tax havens and countries whose tax policies distort fair competition, the development of human resources and administrative structures to combat tax evasion in developing countries.
written. ‒ illegal financial flows involving capital that has been illegally acquired, transferred or used, and which most often result from activities related to tax evasion and avoidance, such as the abuse of transfer pricing, have been identified as major obstacles to domestic revenue mobilisation. the commission has also identified a number of other countries that are particularly vulnerable to the effects of tax evasion and tax avoidance, such as the united states, japan, india, japan, south korea, the philippines, the philippines, the philippines, the philippines, the united kingdom, the united states, the united kingdom, the united kingdom, the united kingdom, the united kingdom, the united states, the united kingdom, the united kingdom, the united kingdom, the united kingdom, the united states, the united kingdom, the united kingdom, the united kingdom, the united kingdom, the united states, the united kingdom, the united kingdom, the united kingdom, the united kingdom, the united states, the united kingdom, the united kingdom, the united kingdom, the united kingdom, the united states, canada, the united kingdom, the united kingdom, the united states, the united kingdom, the united kingdom, the united kingdom, the united states, and canada. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' to cover the whole of the eu, including the member states, and to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' to cover all the member states. by revising fiscal conditions and provisions relating to extractive industry activities, the eu would increase its assistance to developing countries to tax the extraction of natural resources appropriately, strengthen the bargaining position of host governments to make more profit from their own natural resources and encourage the diversification of their economies.
written. ‒ i support the report by ms schlein on tax avoidance and evasion for developing countries. the fiscal systems of these countries are unsustainable because foreign investment and development aid amount to less than illicit money flows, and tax revenues amount to only about 10 percent of gdp. the eu's solidarity must not be compromised in reaching the target of allocating 0,7% of gni to development aid. in order to make aid effective, it is incumbent on the commission to develop a high-quality catalogue of measures to address administrative and political obstacles in developing countries, strengthen institutional capacity and fight corruption, in order to increase tax revenues and reduce dependence on foreign aid in the long term. the implementation of the aml directive and the transfer of assets regulation should make publicly available information on the beneficial ownership of companies in order to prevent various forms of illicit financing. it is necessary to develop an effective automatic exchange of information and to define tax havens to sanction countries that do not prevent illicit capital flight. the ultimate goal should be greater economic autonomy for developing countries. the taxation of income or profits from cross-border activities in the country of origin, where the value is created, should therefore be guaranteed. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's macro-financial assistance in the context of the union's macro-financial assistance to developing countries.
written. ‒ i support the report because most of the illicit financial flows come from activities related to tax evasion. the 2014 global financial integrity report says that foreign direct investment and oda between 2003 and 2012 together amounted to slightly less than illicit money laundering. in developing countries, it happens that agreements are reached without transparency and clear guidelines between governments and extractive companies. taxation should be a reliable and sustainable source of revenue in developing countries if there is a balanced and efficient taxation system, but also an effective tax administration that promotes the payment of taxes. developing countries face political and administrative obstacles to increasing tax revenues due to insufficient human and financial resources, corruption, lack of legitimacy of the political system, unequal distribution of revenues and poor tax management.
written. ‒ i support this report because the implementation of the circular economy can contribute to addressing key eu policy challenges such as job creation, smart reuse of resources and reindustrialisation. the report contains a number of key proposals such as binding targets to reduce commercial and industrial waste by 2025, mandatory separation of biological waste by 2020, mandatory reduction of all landfills and the like.
written. ‒ i voted for the report on resource efficiency: moving to a circular economy, because it will contribute to a change of the whole system, to significant innovations in technology and business, and to society as a whole at the ecological, ethical and economic level. the commission shall be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 264 concerning the establishment of a european works council, the establishment of a european works council and the establishment of a european works council. we see every day the consequences of unsustainable resource use that lead to increasing environmental hazards, creating economic risk as well. we cannot allow europe to use the resources of two planets in the next 15 years, as predicted, when the current situation is that 40% of all the materials europe uses are imported, making it the most dependent region in the world.
written. ‒ i supported the report on resource efficiency: moving towards a circular economy by rapporteur sirpe pietikinen. the lack of resources is a fact facing the modern world, and europe in particular, which depends on imported resources more than other regions. the legislation and the impact on the circular legislation need to be analysed. resource efficiency is a prerequisite for long-term growth and development, which should be based on environmentally sustainable foundations. i also supported the above because of the 'zero waste rate' policy which aims to rationalise waste management at all levels.
written. ‒ the legislative package, conceived on the back of the circular economy, is a legacy of the work and bold vision of the previous european commission by its environment commissioner. that proposal has since been withdrawn by the new commission, with the promise of a new, more ambitious and elaborate package of proposals to be submitted to the european parliament by the end of this year. the european parliament welcomed this promise in this resolution, but also gave a very broad indication of its expectations from the european commission. we are all aware of the growth in the number of housing units in the world and the increased consumption of raw materials. the conscious limit of such unchecked economic growth, such a bold turn towards energy efficiency, is that the time has come when we must separate our economic growth from our consumption of resources. it is this resolution that speaks very simply and openly about this, proposing objectives and guidelines and ways of achieving these objectives. in supporting this resolution, i will continue to call on the european parliament, in cooperation with the national governments and parliaments of the member states, the council and the european commission, to start implementing this idea in a responsible and planned manner, thus achieving full synergy with other eu policies towards further strengthening the economy on the basis of sustainable and efficient use of resources, and further improving the quality of life of eu citizens.
written. ‒ europe is more dependent on imported resources than any other region in the world, which can have the negative consequence of depleting many resources in a relatively short time. europe's competitiveness can only be significantly enhanced by increasing the added value of resources in the economy and by promoting a sustainable supply of raw materials from european sources. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's macro-financial assistance to the countries of central and eastern europe, in particular the countries of the former soviet union, the countries of the former soviet union, the countries of the former soviet union, the countries of the former soviet union, the countries of the former soviet union, the countries of the former soviet union, the countries of the former soviet union, the countries of the former soviet union, the countries of the former soviet union, the countries of the former soviet union, the countries of the former soviet union, the countries of the former soviet union, the countries of the former soviet union, the countries of the former soviet union, the countries of the former soviet union, the countries of the former soviet union, the countries of the former soviet union, the countries of the former soviet union, the countries of the former soviet union, the countries of the former soviet union, the countries of the former soviet union, the countries of the former soviet union, the countries of the former soviet union, the countries of the former soviet union and the countries of eastern europe. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's policy on the circular economy, in particular by ensuring that the union's policy on the circular economy is fully aligned with the union's policy on the circular economy. the role of businesses, authorities and consumers in the eu by improving resource use through better design requirements and through waste legislation that prioritises the waste hierarchy could deliver significant net savings estimated at eur 600 billion, or 8% of annual turnover, while reducing total annual greenhouse gas emissions by 2-4% and ultimately leading to increased resource productivity of up to 30% by 2030.
written. ‒ increased demand for resources and competition have led to high environmental pressures and the need to move to a circular economy that will preserve the environment, increase efficiency and product value added, contribute to new economic growth and employment opportunities, and reduce waste to near zero. the unsustainability of the current system and the need for a major change are also reflected in the fact that the world economy uses the equivalent of one and a half planets to produce and absorb waste globally, and that this figure is estimated to reach two planets by the 2030s. the transition to a circular economy is particularly important for europe as it depends on imported resources more than any other region in the world and many resources will be depleted in a relatively short time. the commission notes that the commission has not provided any evidence that the union industry has benefited from the exemption from the agl. the commission should be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 290 tfeu concerning the establishment of a european works council, the establishment of a european works council and the establishment of a european works council. i therefore supported the report of my colleague sirpae pietikäinen.
written. ‒ while i support in principle the call for a circular economy based on the link between better use of resources and minimisation of waste, i cannot support the overly restrictive nature of certain requirements in the report, such as the requirement to extend the reach of the eco-directive beyond energy-related products or the requirement to prevent manufacturers from shortening the shelf life of products in order to increase sales. i consider that the proposed measures could lead to unnecessary additional administrative costs, both for the public and private sectors. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's integrated approach to waste management and will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's integrated approach to waste management and will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's integrated approach to waste management. i consider that the report as voted in committee is a step backwards in the commission's efforts in the circular economy segment, and carries significant risks of imposing disproportionate burdens and unnecessary costs on the business sector, and i certainly support the efforts of my parliamentary group to ensure, through plenary amendments, a more balanced report that will offer the commission strategic support, instead of unrealistic and burdensome projections and deadlines.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the proposal for a council regulation laying down maximum permitted levels of radioactive contamination of food and feed following a nuclear accident or any other radiological emergency, as the new proposal introduces certain elements that are more clearly linked to european legislation in the field of food safety. i support the application of the codecision procedure which further involves the european parliament in decision-making in this particularly sensitive sector. it is important to mention that in cases of contamination it is crucial to ensure the fastest and most effective response possible in order to minimise the consequences. food safety affects various aspects of daily life, and therefore it is necessary to be particularly careful and to try to act preventively, because the effects of nuclear and radiological accidents are very clear.
written. ‒ it is known that after the chernobyl nuclear power plant accident in 1986 and the fukushima accident in japan in 2011, significant amounts of radioactive substances were released into the atmosphere, which contaminated food and feed in several european countries, which is a problem because high levels of radioactive contamination are still present today. a disturbing statistic is that 10 percent of contaminated food is still consumed annually - the higher levels of radiation, which destroy the body's cells and result in cancer. i supported the report by mrs esther herranz garcíe and considered it necessary to set low thresholds for maximum permitted levels of radioactive contamination of foodstuffs to be monitored by each member state and, in accordance with the results, to take appropriate measures to reduce the quantity of such foodstuffs on the market.
written. ‒ having learned from chernobyl and fukushima, nuclear accidents or radioactive hazards can happen anytime, anywhere. in the event of nuclear disasters, there is a public health concern, particularly with regard to food and feed that may be contaminated. in such cases, it is necessary to react urgently and to take account of the safety of food that has been contaminated by radioactive contamination. in order to be able to react quickly, it is important to have a clear link between european legislation and food safety, as proposed in this report. the maximum levels of radioactive contamination in foodstuffs are set in the annexes, leaving flexibility for rapid change if circumstances so require and in the event of new scientific knowledge. in the event of a nuclear disaster or radioactive hazard, implementing acts would be adopted under the urgency procedure by the commission, with parliament retaining its right of co-decision when amending the annexes. i support this report precisely because it will facilitate a rapid response in the event of a radioactive hazard or accident and thus protect the safety of people and determine the lowest levels of contamination of food in the eu or third countries affected by an accident.
written. ‒ following the chernobyl nuclear power plant accident on 26 april 1986, significant amounts of radioactive substances were released into the atmosphere, contaminating food and animal feed in several european countries to levels that are significant from a health point of view and causing life-threatening illnesses and health problems. high levels of radioactive contamination are still present today. therefore, i support the rapporteur's proposal which seeks to adopt measures to ensure the introduction of certain agricultural products into the union in accordance with common agreements that protect public health while maintaining the single market and avoiding trade diversion. i consider the role of the member states responsible for monitoring compliance with the levels set out in this regulation, in particular through the monitoring of safety standards for food and feed, to be of particular importance.
written. ‒ in the light of the dangers posed by nuclear power plants, the european union needs effective legal instruments containing flexible decision-making procedures to deal with situations such as those that occurred in chernobyl and fukushima. the new proposal under review introduces a number of new elements that establish a clearer link with eu food safety rules. in its explanatory memorandum, the commission points out that, taking into account developments in eu primary law with regard to food safety and the need to ensure coherence of all legislative measures on the conditions for importing food and feed from third countries affected by a nuclear accident or radiological hazards, it is necessary to align the measures adopted in the post-chernobyl context with the regime of implementing powers and procedures established by this regulation, which may also involve a change of the legal basis. this could be interpreted as an indication that the commission may be ready to accept a change in the legal basis it has sought so far. with regard to the implementation of acts adopted in the event of a nuclear accident or other radiological emergency, the draft report shall provide for the possibility of reviewing decisions as many times as necessary to adapt to the way contamination develops. i support this report.
written. ‒ i support this report and its amendments because of the need to protect against the dangers arising from exposure to ionising radiation. the chernobyl nuclear accident caused the release of significant amounts of radioactive particles into the atmosphere, and contamination of food and feed products in several european countries caused by radioactive particles causes illness and health problems, while high levels of contamination are still present today. it is also dangerous that it has been shown that higher levels of radiation can cause cancer, which makes it necessary to establish a threshold for the maximum permitted level of radioactive contamination for foodstuffs. it is also necessary to periodically review and update the maximum permitted measures in accordance with scientific advice.
written. ‒ in 2014, the commission drafted a revised proposal for a regulation on maximum permitted levels of radioactive contamination of food and feed following a nuclear accident, based on the legal basis of the treaty establishing the european atomic energy community (euratom), which is to be approved or rejected by the european parliament. while i consider the commission's proposal to be entirely appropriate, the rapporteur has proposed amendments which give the european parliament greater powers to deal with critical situations in this area. the amendments are not consistent with the objective of preserving euratom as a separate organisation responsible for the functioning of the nuclear energy sector, which is, inter alia, to establish and ensure the implementation of uniform safety standards for the protection of the health of workers and the general public. i believe that euratom should remain the organisation responsible for all aspects of the functioning of the energy sector, including the consequences of possible nuclear accidents, as the european parliament is not an expert in this area. that is why i voted against this report.
written. ‒ i support the question to the commission by mr gualtieri, as all the main priorities are included in the final text, and the text itself clearly points to the need for legislative action in creating a capital markets union.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the european parliament's resolution on the creation of a capital markets union, as a strong supporter of the idea of europe but also as a witness of a time in which it is becoming increasingly clear that success, especially in the field of the economy, is determined by a willingness to be flexible, change, cooperate and integrate. europe needs to continue to interact its governance and financial systems to be competitive. there are still many barriers in the eu that restrict the economy. i agree with the fact that the eu is recovering from the financial crisis more slowly than the us, partly due to the barriers in the financial system. the eu must build its own original version of a capital markets union, drawing lessons from the experience of other parts of the world. it is necessary to develop a reasonable approach to the recognition of equivalent or similar standards of third countries in order to ensure the compatibility of european and international financial markets. i believe that the elements for establishing a fully functional capital markets union should be achieved by 2018 at the latest. in this regard, a comprehensive analysis of the current state of eu capital markets and the obstacles that exist at eu level is needed, and legislative and non-legislative proposals should be prepared as soon as possible in order to achieve the objective of a fully integrated eu single capital market by the end of 2018.
written. ‒ i supported the resolution on the creation of a capital markets union by meps robert gualtieri and burkhard balz, which aims to create new jobs and growth. this creates the basis for the sources of financing of the economy, i.e. the private sector. investment in the eu, after peaking in 2007, is falling sharply and is still below normal levels. the capital markets union gives a boost to small and medium-sized enterprises, which should be the backbone of the economy. such financing creates a positive environment and conditions for the creation of new jobs. the objective of this union is precisely to facilitate access to finance for all companies and smes in europe, to increase and diversify sources of finance and to increase the efficiency and effectiveness of the market, all of which can give a positive impetus to the recovery of the real sector. in addition, this is an opportunity for start-up companies which means that the concept of 'starting small' is encouraged. but the most important thing is to reduce administration, and therefore reduce costs by 30 to 50 percent. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the eu's new rules on the protection of personal data, in particular the rules on the protection of personal data and the rules on the protection of personal data.
written. ‒ this motion for a resolution on the creation of a capital markets union was drawn up taking into account the commission green paper of 18 february 2015 entitled 'establishing a capital markets union' and the question addressed to the commission on the green paper on the creation of a capital markets union which was the final step in its preparation. on 16 june 2015, the council adopted conclusions on the development of the capital markets union and stated that it considered that a more integrated capital markets could contribute to job creation and make the financial system more efficient. i believe that more integrated capital markets and greater access to capital will enable employment growth, especially among young people, and encourage them to enter the world of entrepreneurship. the report of the five presidents entitled 'completing european economic and monetary union' announced the establishment of a single european body for capital market supervision, which i certainly consider necessary and i agree with the statement in the motion for a resolution that insufficiently regulated capital markets were one of the main reasons for the outbreak of the financial crisis. the action plan for the creation of a capital markets union is particularly important and i join the council in calling on the commission to develop it as soon as possible, taking into account the needs of smes. i am satisfied with the answers and explanations given by commissioner jonathan hill, with his support for this motion for a resolution and with the final content of the motion itself, and i therefore supported it.
written. ‒ parliament already stressed in its resolution of 26 february 2014 on the long-term financing of the european economy the need to improve access to capital markets through new sources of financing, while at the same time pointing out that commercial banks are likely to remain the main source of financing and that it is crucial for member states to establish new sources to complement existing mechanisms and fill financing gaps by providing an appropriate regulatory and supervisory framework geared to the needs of the real economy. despite the opportunities offered by a well-developed eu capital market, the fact that there are huge obstacles in other areas such as tax policy, in particular practices that encourage debt rather than equity, insolvency and accounting law cannot be avoided. it is necessary for the commission to take into account the differences in the economic and cultural composition of the sme sector across member states in order to avoid undesirable consequences arising from the implementation of the capital markets union that may further underline existing imbalances in access to finance between member states. i agree with the request for a comprehensive analysis of the current state of eu capital markets and the obstacles that exist at eu level and the presentation of legislative and non-legislative proposals as soon as possible in order to achieve the goal of a fully integrated eu single capital market by the end of 2018.
written. ‒ commission president jean-claude juncker has identified strengthening europe's competitiveness and boosting investment to create jobs as the commission's top strategic priority. the fact is that investment in europe's real economy has weakened relatively over the last few decades despite the large increase in the european and global financial sector over the same period. the eu's real economy remains heavily reliant on banks, making it vulnerable to the strained conditions of bank financing, as evidenced by the global economic crisis of 2007. the priority is to restore stability in the eu banking sector in order to gain an edge over long-term investment and real economy financing. the insurance sector holds large stocks of uncommitted assets which should be used more efficiently by improving the regulatory framework by reviewing capital requirements for certain investments. it is necessary to create the conditions for restoring confidence in the real economy of the eu, based on clear commitments at member state and union level to foster a positive investment climate and legal certainty for investors, formulating long-term objectives for a regulatory framework that will act as a stabiliser and foster competitiveness and growth. the future of europe is linked to the achievement of smart, sustainable and inclusive growth. therefore, i support the motion for a resolution on the creation of a capital markets union.
written. ‒ i support the european parliament's motion for a resolution on the creation of a capital markets union, as the parliament has been considering and planning this resolution since february 2014. given that the unregulated capital market was one of the main reasons for the financial crisis, i believe that additional regulation of the capital market is necessary. the creation of a capital markets union would also further reduce costs and contribute to the growth of smes. i believe that this resolution will ease the conditions for bank financing of the real economy in all the member states.
written. ‒ i supported this resolution because i believe it covers the key issues of removing obstacles to cross-border investment in the european union, which is the main objective of building a capital markets union. as there are many benefits to be gained from opening up the markets of the member states of the european union to foreign investors, i support the view that there is a need to identify the legislative obstacles that could hinder the success of the construction of a capital markets union. i believe that removing these barriers would make it easier and more efficient for micro, small and medium-sized enterprises, which are the drivers of the european economy, to find investors, since they represent 99% of all businesses in the eu. this would strengthen the european union's venture capital market, which has great potential to create much-needed new jobs.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution on the european security agenda, as it sets out the priorities and main principles in the field of security, as well as union measures aimed at improving the exchange of information, strengthening operational cooperation and providing support measures to member states. today, cooperation in this field is more important than ever. the eu is faced with a number of security challenges that transcend national and eu borders. it is precisely the example of security that shows how much we need 'more europe': more cooperation, more integration and coordination between national police and other national and eu bodies. because simply, crime and terrorism know no borders. cybercrime and other forms of high-tech crime are particularly prevalent today. europe must be safe for its citizens. the european security policy must be flexible, consistent, complementary and continuous.
written. ‒ threats to the internal and external security of the european union have become more complex and increasingly difficult to monitor, and therefore additional efforts are needed to build security. it is necessary to develop tools to monitor threats at eu level and to develop a coherent security programme. terrorism, radicalism of all kinds and cybercrime are key challenges that the european union is facing more and more every day, and a decisive, valid and timely response requires the cooperation of all member states, which is why i supported the european parliament's resolution on the security agenda.
written. ‒ growing inequality, poverty, racial and religious violence and hate crimes are some of the root causes of crime faced by the member states of the european union and therefore need to be further investigated. the commission therefore adopted on 24 april 2015 a communication entitled 'a european security agenda for 2015-2020', which replaces the internal security strategy (2010-2014). the new programme establishes priorities and guiding principles in the field of security, as well as union actions aimed at improving the exchange of information, strengthening operational cooperation and providing support measures to member states. i consider this type of document to be of great importance for the union itself, since freedom and security are fundamental rights of every eu citizen. this requires a coherent, comprehensive and harmonised eu deal that respects and ensures the fundamental rights of every human being. however, i abstained from voting on the resolution because it does not contain adequate answers and recommendations to key issues related to the fight against crime and the achievement of security in the area of financing, computer and organised crime and the fight against terrorism, which throughout the european union endangers the lives of its inhabitants.
written. ‒ threats to the union's internal security have become more complex, hybrid, asymmetrical and unconventional, and are present at international level, evolving rapidly and difficult to predict. as they are beyond the capabilities of each member state, they call more than ever for a coherent, comprehensive, multidimensional and coordinated eu response that takes full account of respect for fundamental rights. we need to strike a balance between preventive policies and repressive measures to preserve freedom, security and justice. the security measures must always be taken in accordance with the rule of law and the protection of fundamental rights such as the right to privacy and data protection, freedom of expression and association, and due process. the european union has not agreed on the definition of 'national security', thereby opening up an uncertain space for exceptions in eu legal instruments that mention 'national security', and i therefore join the calls on the commission to swiftly propose a definition of the national security exception in article 4 (2) teu and its limitation in order to ensure that security measures respect democratic principles and fundamental rights.
written. ‒ i support the motion for a resolution on the european agenda on security, as ensuring the security and freedom of european citizens is a shared responsibility of the union and the member states and a problem that requires full attention. in recent years, a number of threats have emerged in the eu's immediate neighbourhood, and i therefore agree that the eu urgently needs to assess security threats and focus on the four main priority areas listed in the resolution: terrorism, radicalisation, cybercrime and organised crime. this should be done by addressing the issue of security at the eu's borders, due to the threat of terrorism and radicalism, and by addressing the issue of cybercrime, as new technological developments often increase the impact of crime on citizens. the commission should also make further efforts to improve the exchange of information and operational cooperation between national intelligence and law enforcement services, with particular reference to organised crime, which is a major threat and the most serious threat to the security of eu citizens. in the light of all the above, i consider that this resolution is the best way to ensure that citizens' freedoms and security are protected in accordance with fundamental human rights.
‒ the european agenda on security 2015-2019 sets out challenges, principles and guidelines in dealing with security threats related to terrorism, extremism, organised crime and smuggling. the commission adopted the programme in april, and parliament, in the libe committee, failed to adopt the priorities in the commission's original proposal. instead, the amendments that were incorporated into the final resolution at the committee focused on human rights, data protection, and economic inequality as the root and crucial causes of crime. the amendments also followed the typical line of calling for greater union influence in the security policy segment, directly violating the principle of subsidiarity by insisting on the eu definition of national security and calling for the establishment of more forms of legal migration. that's why i voted against it.
written. ‒ the european parliament should express its firm support for the unity, sovereignty, independence and territorial integrity of yemen. i want to express my deep concern at the fact that 13 million people in yemen are facing a food crisis and 9.4 million have little or no access to water. i call on all parties to the conflict to immediately cease violence and guarantee the protection of civilians and to refrain from directing attacks on civilian infrastructure, particularly health care facilities and water systems.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the european parliament resolution on the situation in yemen (2015/2760 ((rsp)) because of the serious war situation and the major humanitarian and political problems currently affecting the country. the current conflict in yemen has spread to almost the entire country, and according to the latest data from the world health organization, from 19 march to 5 may 2015, at least 1,439 people were killed. there is an urgent need to stop violence by all parties to the conflict. all parties should respect international humanitarian law and international human rights law to ensure the protection of civilians and to stop the direct destruction of civilian infrastructure, health care facilities and water systems, and to engage with the un and humanitarian organisations to provide assistance to those in need. it is necessary for the high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy to urgently win the support of the un for a comprehensive international plan to secure yemen's water supply, as such a measure could be crucial for the successful implementation of a potential peace process and for creating hope among the population for the possibility of improving agriculture, self-sufficiency in food and the reconstruction of the country.
written. ‒ the world health organization figures show that more than 1,400 people have been killed in the conflict in yemen and nearly 6,000 injured. it's an internal conflict involving houthi-shia rebels and forces loyal to president hadi-sunni-majority forces from the south of the country. in addition to these two sides, extremists and terrorists are involved in the conflict al-qaeda and isil. it's a very difficult situation where control of certain parts of the country is almost impossible. it is important to note that this is not just an internal conflict but one that is spreading over time. saudi arabia, in fact, has joined the conflict, leading a number of countries. the attacks are directed against the rebels, and in favor of the president. so the conflict is particularly affecting the countries in the horn of africa and the wider middle east. it is necessary to start a dialogue between the conflicting parties as soon as possible, to try to find common ground and to suppress the activities of extremists. moreover, the humanitarian crisis is imminent, as evidenced by the growing number of refugees, and urgent relief measures are needed. the priority must be to stop the spread of the conflict, establish dialogue and a ceasefire and help the population under the leadership of the un. we must show solidarity with the people suffering from the consequences of this conflict, which is why i supported the resolution
written. ‒ yemen was recently added to the un list as a country facing the highest level of crisis. yemen is in dire need of massive humanitarian aid as 80% of the population is starving due to food shortages. the united nations needs to come up with a comprehensive international plan as soon as possible to ensure yemen's food and water supply. this is important to meet the population's basic human needs, but it will also contribute to ending the potential peace process, and create a perspective for the population by ensuring improved agriculture, self-sufficient food and land restoration. only honest dialogue can lead to a way out of this crisis, and therefore a jointly effective solution must be found that ensures respect for fundamental human and humanitarian rights. the commission should also be able to provide information on the progress of the work of the un special representative on the situation in yemen, including on the progress of the un special representative on the situation in yemen, and on the progress of the un special representative on the situation in yemen.
written. ‒ the current crisis in yemen has been caused by the failure of successive governments to meet the legitimate aspirations of the yemeni people for democracy, economic and social development, stability and security, and the failure of the transition, following the resignation of long-standing president ali abdullah saleh and his succession by vice-president abd-rabbu mansur hadi, to create the conditions for violent conflict, the failure to form an inclusive government and a just distribution of power, and the systematic ignoring of the country's many inter-tribal tensions, widespread insecurity and economic paralysis. i reiterate my firm support for the unity, sovereignty, independence and territorial integrity of yemen and my support for its people, and express my grave concern at the rapid deterioration of the political, security and humanitarian situation in yemen. all parties to the conflict should participate in reaching an agreement on a humanitarian settlement, at least now during the muslim holy month of ramadan, to enable the delivery of much-needed aid to the population and thus take the first step towards a permanent ceasefire that would pave the way for a negotiated political solution. particularly concerning is the fact that 13 million people in yemen face a food crisis, and 9.4 million have little or no access to water. this is a humanitarian disaster that we need to address as soon as possible.
written. ‒ the rapid deterioration of the security and humanitarian situation in yemen is a matter of concern. the escalation of conflict between the government and the houthi shiite militia, as well as the military intervention of a coalition of countries led by saudi arabia, have greatly aggravated the already unfavorable situation in one of the poorest countries in the arabian peninsula. the conflict in yemen also risks further destabilising the horn of africa, the red sea basin and the entire middle east. it also brings with it the increased danger of creating a very fertile ground for the preparation and execution of terrorist acts. with over 20 million people in need of humanitarian assistance, it is crucial to ensure the protection of the civilian population. the commission should also be able to provide information on the implementation of the union's macro-financial assistance to the countries of central and eastern europe, including the countries of the former soviet union, the former yugoslav republic of macedonia, the former yugoslav republic of macedonia and the former yugoslav republic of macedonia. coalition air strikes are not helping to calm the conflict. military action alone will not resolve the conflict and therefore requires an end to military action and violence. a solution to the crisis must be found through dialogue and the solution must be political. the consultations which began in geneva on 14 june must be continued in good faith. the negotiations should cover a wide range of issues relevant to the end of the conflict, with full respect for the territorial integrity of yemen and the legitimate yemeni authorities. only by reaching a peace agreement is it possible to restore peace and remove the danger of terrorist groups organizing to further undermine the security situation.
written. - i support the motion for a resolution because of the large number of dead and injured, including many civilians. the horn of africa, as well as the red sea and the middle east, is a region where conflicts pose serious risks to stability. in addition, the unrest has resulted in over a thousand prison escapes, including from al-qaeda fighters and insurgents, which have resulted in widespread civilian casualties. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the eu-yemen joint action to include the following areas: in addition, yemen is a haven for ethiopian migrants as well as refugees from somalia who live in precarious conditions.
written. ‒ i supported the resolution supporting the continuation of engaged and active political negotiations in yemen in view of the worrisome deterioration of the political, security and humanitarian situation. i particularly support the call for the paramilitary groups that are using violence to destabilise the country to withdraw from the occupied areas, as i believe that the conflict between shiites and sunnis in yemen can only be resolved through dialogue. the current situation in the south of the country, which is surrounded by a group of shiite houthi rebels, is alarming paramilitaries are preventing the delivery of food and medicine, hospitals are closed, which has led to the spread of epidemics. i believe that first of all, we need to allow humanitarian workers access to the most vulnerable areas to prevent further disasters, and then we need to address the threat posed by extremist and terrorist groups. in addition to the threat of famine to more than 10 million people, instability and mismanagement, corruption and lack of resources, and sunni-shia conflict are factors that favor the activities of one of the most active branches of the terrorist group al qaeda. therefore, i believe it is in the interest of the yemeni people, as well as the entire international community, to address these extremist and terrorist threats.
written. ‒ stability and security in north africa and the middle east are of key importance for the security of the union. i therefore call on the eu and its member states not to view the middle east and north africa region solely through the lens of short-term security threats but to provide active and sustained support to the democratic aspirations of the societies in the region. furthermore, i call on the eu and its member states to address the root causes of the rapidly deteriorating situation throughout the middle east and north africa region in a comprehensive and ambitious approach.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the european parliament's motion for a resolution on the security challenges in the middle east and north africa and prospects for political stability, as the security of these areas is of strategic importance for the european union. a comprehensive approach and coordinated action are needed to address the fundamental problems that are increasingly threatening global stability. in this context, the european union has the prerequisites to become a mediator in establishing a strategic political dialogue, but this must be done with one voice. the commission has also been informed by the european parliament and the council that the commission has decided to initiate the procedure laid down in article 108 (2) of the treaty on the functioning of the european union in respect of the measures to be taken by the member states in the field of the fight against terrorism. in the countries of the middle east and north africa, additional efforts are needed from the european union, but also from the international community as a whole, to prevent cruel torture and to strengthen respect for human rights and to advance democratic principles in order to address political instability.
written. ‒ the report by mep vincent peillon proposes guidelines and actions that the european union should take to address the underlying problems in the middle east and north africa and calls for unity between the union and the international institutions in the implementation of the common foreign policy. economic and political instability, as well as numerous conflicts, are compounded by violations of human rights and freedoms and a steadily worsening humanitarian situation. in addition to political intervention, dialogue with civil society, cultural and inter-religious cooperation is needed to raise awareness of the seriousness of the problem and to find solutions. i supported the report calling for greater involvement and a more serious role for the union in dealing with the situation in the middle east and north africa. i particularly welcome the view that economic and social development is closely linked to the strengthening of democracy and justice and is necessary for achieving long-term stability.
written. ‒ in view of the conflicts in syria, iraq, yemen and libya and the growing tensions in the middle east and north africa, parliament calls on the eu and its member states to address the root causes of the current situation throughout the middle east and north africa region in a comprehensive and ambitious approach. the consequences of these conflicts are detrimental to the security of the region and permanently damage political and economic development, key infrastructure and demographic cohesion, and pose serious risks to the security of europe and its citizens. furthermore, they cause serious humanitarian crises which are responsible for the displacement of large numbers of the population, and it is therefore necessary to address the root causes in order to prevent further deterioration and to achieve economic and social development in order to achieve political stability. although this document highlights the need to promote women's rights and gender equality, i could not support its final content as amendment 3 supported the funding of abortions of raped women with eu money. i think the eu should focus on finding the causes and preventing such terrible crimes, rather than dealing with the consequences in this way.
written. ‒ the conflicts in syria, iraq, yemen and libya, and the growing tensions in the middle east and north africa, are the main sources of instability in the region. taking into account the convergence of the middle east and sahel focal points of counter-terrorism and the proximity of those focal points to the horn of africa sensitive area. the consequences of such a situation could be disastrous for the security of the entire region as it would permanently damage political and economic development, key infrastructure and demographic cohesion in that region. such a situation poses serious risks to the security of europe, its citizens and its interests. the high number of civilian casualties and terrorist acts against them is of particular concern, and the violations of human rights and humanitarian law are serious, especially when it comes to ethnic and religious minorities. these conflicts cause serious humanitarian crises that are responsible for the displacement of large numbers of people and extremely difficult living conditions for refugees and the population of the countries that have hosted them. given the persisting obstacles to finding coherent conflict resolution strategies and to establishing multilateral dialogues with credible and trusted actors, i support the adoption of this revolution and join calls for the union to make its concrete contribution to finding adequate responses to this situation and to forge partnerships with countries in the region that are not in its immediate neighbourhood.
written. ‒ i support the report on the security challenges in the middle east and north africa and prospects for political stability, as the conflicts that are taking place are sources of instability in the region and at the same time a threat to security. it is necessary to protect human rights, especially the rights of minorities, both ethnic and religious, to prevent an increase in the number of civilian casualties, to prevent the displacement of the population. all of this calls for strategic and global policy development and the promotion of democratic values.
written. ‒ while i appreciate the initial idea of the report to find a balanced and realistic solution for the relationship between the european union and the middle east and north africa region, i voted in abstention because the incorporated amendments in the committee on foreign affairs instead of the balance call for further strengthening of the union's common security and defence policy and generally strengthening of the union's influence in foreign policy making. i am firmly of the view that the common security and defence policy must respect the national sovereignty of the individual member states of the union and i oppose any further attempts to extend the union's influence in this area.
written. ‒ i support this mep's report which stresses that the enp must remain a single policy, recognising that both the eastern and mediterranean partnerships are crucial. i also agree that the eu should provide sufficient financial resources for the further work of the enp, and since the report also has a number of important amendments accepted by the s&d group, it is of sufficient quality to be supported by me.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the european parliament's motion for a resolution on the review of the european neighbourhood policy, given the importance and sensitivity of this eu policy which is designed to deepen relations, increase cooperation and strengthen the eu's partnership with neighbouring countries to create an area of shared stability, security and prosperity. it is clear that insecurity, instability and adverse socioeconomic conditions in neighbouring countries can have a negative impact and reverse democratic movements. large parts of the neighbourhood are affected by armed conflicts and crises and partner countries must seek to find a peaceful solution to the existing conflicts that impede economic, social and political transformation and regional cooperation, stability and security. the eu should play a more active role in finding peaceful solutions to existing conflicts. the revised european neighbourhood policy should be able to offer a rapid, flexible and appropriate response to the situation on the ground. i agree that the european neighbourhood policy is a key part of the eu's external policy and must remain a single policy, whose potential and uniqueness are the result of its ability to mobilise a multitude of instruments in the fields of diplomacy, security, defence, economy, trade, development and humanitarian aid. the european neighbourhood policy needs to be reshaped in order to build strong, strategic and long-term partnerships with countries within the european neighbourhood policy, based on preserving and upholding the values and principles of the eu and promoting common interests.
written. ‒ terrorist attacks, armed conflicts, migration are daily topics of debate in parliament. the problems we face are the result of events in neighbouring countries, and the serious security, economic and social impacts are also felt by our citizens. these processes violate the fundamental values on which the european union is founded peace, stability and prosperity with a focus on respect for democracy, human rights and equality. the union's external policy priorities include the long-term stable relations with its neighbouring countries. the current impact of foreign policy can be judged to be very weak since it is not successful in attempting to respond to environmental problems. i supported the report by mr cookan because i believe that we need a strategic, more active and consistently implemented external policy of the european union, capable of resolving conflicts in a timely and peaceful manner and of creating a stable and secure international environment.
written. ‒ the european neighbourhood policy was created to re-energize relations, increase cooperation and strengthen the eu's partnership with neighbouring countries to create an area of shared stability and prosperity, especially in view of the situation of neighbouring countries facing an increasing economic crisis. many parts of the neighbourhood are affected by armed and frozen conflicts and crises, which hamper economic, social and political transformation and regional cooperation, stability and security. so i think it's very important to create a flexible and appropriate response to situations that arise in parts of the neighbourhood, taking into account that everyone should benefit from this kind of policy, but without compromising fundamental human values. i support this resolution because it emphasises the fight against the root causes of instability such as unemployment, social exclusion, poverty and the low level of women's political and socioeconomic participation. this will strengthen policy coordination and joint development of financial assistance programmes and provide mechanisms to strengthen cooperation between member states and parts of the neighbourhood, which can lead to a strengthening of the european union's policies and to the emphasis on its core values such as unity, solidarity and mutual assistance.
written. ‒ i support the report by mr kukana, which sets out in a very comprehensive way the reforms that need to be implemented in order to structurally reform the relationship with neighbours and effectively deal with the security challenges that are more present on the union's southern and eastern borders than ever before. in doing so, in addition to the eastern and southern dimensions, particular attention should be paid to the union's south-eastern neighbourhood. the european neighbourhood policy is of strategic importance as a policy that creates multi-layered relations and strong interdependence between the eu and its neighbourhood partners. the key challenge for the european neighbourhood policy is to deliver tangible and concrete improvements for the citizens of the partner countries. the european neighbourhood policy should become a stronger, more political and more effective policy by strengthening its positive elements such as a greater focus on partnership with societies, differentiation and a 'more for more' approach.
written. ‒ i agree with the european parliament's motion for a resolution on the review of the european neighbourhood policy, as it deepens and strengthens the neighbourhood relations of the member states. in view of possible future security crises, i believe that there is a need for stronger cooperation between neighbouring countries and mutual responsibility. i believe that the european neighbourhood policy is one of the foreign policy priorities and therefore i believe that the eu needs to play a more active role in the implementation and review of this proposal because it shows a more united and coherent european union. i believe that the european union should consider the different external and internal issues of each country and adapt its strategies to deal with possible conflicts.
written. ‒ the european neighbourhood policy was created in 2004 with the aim of strengthening diplomatic relations with the countries on the union's eastern and northern borders - algeria, armenia, azerbaijan, belarus, morocco, egypt, georgia, israel, jordan, lebanon, libya, moldova, palestine, syria, tunisia and ukraine. i consider it of the utmost importance to continue to nurture relations with those countries bordering the union with a view to maintaining long-term stability and political reforms in them. i also believe that the neighbourhood policy should specialise in such a way that instead of a uniform approach, it starts to cultivate an approach which respects and respects the individual characteristics of each of the above-mentioned countries in particular, with minimal interference by the union in the internal affairs of sovereign states. this would increase efficiency and effectiveness in preserving democracy and the rule of law.
written. - i'm very glad that we managed to secure the rejection of the amendment to ban the so-called panoramic photographs. it is important that the european parliament sends a clear message that it hears the demands of citizens. a proper balance needs to be struck between copyright fees and consumer demands. i'm sorry that the oral amendment of colleague honeyball was rejected, but i believe that the voted document represents a good basis for digital reform.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution of the european parliament on the implementation of the directive on the harmonisation of certain aspects of copyright and related rights in the information society because i consider that the modernisation of the copyright regime is necessary. together with the creative industries, it generates growth and jobs within the european economy, and represents 4.2% of european gdp. i would like to stress in particular that i voted in favour of the need for panoramic images to be used freely and that each member state has the right to adopt specific rules on this matter.
‒ directive 2001/29/ec provides a legislative framework on copyright and related rights in the technological development, and in particular the information society. the launch of the commission communication on the amendments to the directive required by the extremely rapid development in the digital environment since 2001, when it was signed, is commendable. the commission also plans to propose copyright reform in the autumn as part of the digital agenda, which should simplify eu legislation and contribute to further technology development, foster creativity and innovation and protect copyright. the latter should be a priority in the implementation of reforms. copyright protection must be of a high standard because it is the only way to encourage creativity and innovation that will surely result in the development and promotion of new products and services, their use and thus contribute to increased competitiveness, job creation and economic growth. i supported the report by mep julie red with the aim of adapting to the digital society and protecting intellectual property, which is the basis of competitiveness and economic development, whose products and services are the result of creative thinking in order to make the lives of our citizens easier.
written. ‒ as we live in a digital age characterised by rapid development and the need for control, there is a need for new modern copyright regulations that all stakeholders must be satisfied with. the right to private property is one of the fundamental human rights, therefore photographs, poems, video content and other creative constructs may not be used and published without the prior authorization of the author of the content. rapid development means that many aspects of the existing copyright regulations are not regulated, so there is still a great possibility of theft and piracy. furthermore, copyright protection is the basis for the high-quality functioning of the eu market and the development of this business segment as it represents a great potential and it is of great importance that every consumer is aware of all the elements of the content they use, and in particular whether they are using authorised or illegal content. i believe that it is necessary to harmonise certain aspects of copyright and related rights because it is of great importance to control the exchange and use of information, which is not easy given that we live in an accelerated information society. for these reasons, i have supported this resolution on the implementation of the directive on the harmonisation of certain aspects of copyright and related rights in the information society.
written. ‒ i support the report by mrs redae which partly sets out guidelines for the future, indisputably necessary, regulation of copyright. it is clear that the current regulatory system is completely incompatible with the technological developments that have taken place in recent years and that a new compromise needs to be found between the legitimate rights of authors to receive compensation for the content they produce, but also the rights of consumers to access content regardless of their location. i do not agree with the suggestion that the commercial use of photographs, videos and other images or works permanently located in public space should always be subject to prior authorisation by the author or their authorised representatives and i am pleased that this part has been successfully removed from the report. i also particularly support the part of the report that deals with the blocking of content depending on the geographical location of consumers, which puts minorities across europe at a particular disadvantage. the european union is a single market in theory and should become one in practice, with adequate protection for the rights of authors who should be compensated for their work.
written. ‒ i support the amendment of directive 2001/29/ec on the harmonisation of certain aspects of copyright and related rights in the information society, in line with the previously obtained opinions of the committee on legal affairs, the committee on industry, research and energy and the committee on the internal market and consumer protection. at the same time, i welcome the efforts of the commission to pursue the development of the eu digital agenda, including copyright issues. copyright and related rights protect and encourage the development and promotion of new products and services, while europe's cultural and innovative economic sector is an important driver of technological progress and a driver of economic growth and job creation within the eu. this is supported by the fact that even during the last economic crisis, the sector employed more than 7 million people. in this way, authors and artists directly contribute to increased competitiveness, employment and innovation growth in a wider range of economic sectors in the eu and it is therefore necessary to ensure that authors of literary and other artistic works are at the same time adequately recognised and protected. the commission should be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 290 tfeu concerning the definition of the concept of 'originating products' and the definition of the concept of 'originating products' and the definition of the concept of 'originating products' in accordance with article 4 of directive 2014/25/eu.
written. ‒ i support the report on the implementation of directive 2001/29/ec of the european parliament and of the council of 22 may 2001 on the harmonisation of certain aspects of copyright and related rights in the information society, as it is necessary to harmonise the aspects of copyright and related rights while taking account of technological progress. the commission will continue to support the development of the european union's digital library, which will be available to all citizens in the union. in addition, the european cultural and innovative sector is a driver of european growth and creates jobs, employing more than 7 million people. copyright is a concrete means of ensuring that creators are paid, and that creative processes are funded. creative works are driven by actors in the digital and information economy such as internet search engines and social media.
written. ‒ i support many of the very high quality proposals in this report, such as evidence-based improvements to the legal framework; a call to the commission to assess which measures could have a positive effect on legal certainty; the finding that copyright is effective only to the extent that the legal measures protecting it are effective; appropriate and fair compensation for all categories of author, etc. however, i object to what i consider to be an overly restrictive and disproportionate amendment, amendment 421, which recommends that the photography of public buildings/statues/monuments can be justified and allowed only in cases where the photography is not undertaken for commercial purposes. the commercial purpose would not be journalism, nor would a picture with a landmark in the background be considered to be journalism. this amendment directly undermines the principle of subsidiarity, and i see no point in trying to install it as an area of union competence, instead of as the exclusive competence of each member state individually.
written. ‒ i support this report on the evaluation of the work of the european endowment for democracy (eed). the commission notes that the eed has been established in accordance with the principle of subsidiarity and that the eed has been set up to promote the development of the union's energy sector. the amendment places a stronger emphasis on groups suffering from social exclusion or political marginalisation.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the european parliament's motion for a resolution on the eu's new approach to human rights and democracy: an assessment of the work of the european endowment for democracy (eed) since its establishment, given the importance of the foundation in the process of building democracy and promoting a genuine democratic culture. over 20 years of my political work i have promoted democratic processes in croatia which, especially after independence, had problems in developing a democratic social system. i have supported the cooperation of the public sector and the non-governmental civil sector, which i consider to be extremely important not only in promoting democratic values but also in complementing the role of public authorities in those areas where the public sector is insufficiently involved. as mayor, i also founded the istrian county foundation for the development of civil society with a similar purpose. in this context, i see the foundation as an institution that adds value to existing eu democracy support through fast and flexible funding that is delivered directly to beneficiaries in a cost-effective manner and that complements other eu funds; provides sustained support to the eu's multi-pronged efforts to support civil society organisations, social movements and activists worldwide; works in favour of freedom of expression, freedom of the media, building and strengthening the rule of law, fighting corruption, social and political pluralism in order to support the development of democratic regimes, and in the eu's eastern and southern neighbourhoods.
‒ the european union was created on the basis of respect for human rights and freedoms, democracy and the rule of law, and the events of recent years in the union's neighbourhood have violated those fundamental values. the european endowment for democracy was established with the aim of promoting democratisation and ensuring democracy in countries undergoing political transition and struggling for democracy. i supported the report of member of parliament andrzej grzyb, which welcomes the results achieved and the efforts made by the foundation to fulfil its objective of promoting and securing democracy through activities relating, inter alia, to the fight against corruption, the promotion of media freedom and dialogue on diversity and non-violence. the report calls on the commission and the member states to provide increased financial resources to the european endowment for democracy as we are currently facing major foreign and security policy challenges due to conflicts in the neighbourhood where human rights are systematically violated and the rule of law and democracy are absent. the european union institutions and the member states must engage with the european endowment for democracy to ensure a common and consistent support for democracy.
‒ the european endowment for democracy was established in 2012 with the aim of supporting political and civil society actors seeking to bring about democratic change in the eu's eastern and southern neighbourhoods. such support shall be achieved through the provision of rapid and flexible financial assistance tailored to the beneficiaries without any bureaucratic obstacles. the foundation's management and executive board shall be chaired by members of the european parliament. the committee shall be composed of representatives of the member states and of the eu institutions, including nine representatives of the european parliament. the european foundation for democracy shall act by providing support for the protection of human rights, democratic reforms, political participation and representation, which are the main tasks of the european instrument for democracy and human rights. the instrument is specifically designed to achieve the objectives set and it finances eu election observation projects, programmes and missions. the european instrument shall be used to award grants to civil society organisations, non-governmental organisations and human rights defenders. in addition to eradicating poverty, it also seeks to strengthen and sustain democracy in developing countries.
written. ‒ given the need to promote objective and independent information and strengthen the media environment, including on the internet and social media, in the countries within the geographical scope of the eed's work, protecting freedom of the press and expression and fighting against all forms of social and political censorship, and also supporting democratization efforts in those countries, including strengthening the rule of law and fighting corruption, i support the importance and results of the eed's work. i welcome the results achieved so far within the eed in the current challenging international environment. the eed fulfils its main objective 'to promote and foster democratisation and the achievement of deep and sustainable democracy in countries in political transition and in societies struggling for democratisation', inter alia by providing support to those without it, which includes fighting corruption, promoting dialogue in diversity and non-violence, encouraging social and political participation and protecting activists and journalists who are making the greatest effort at local level to enable and accelerate the democratic process, making justice more accessible and therefore deserving of our continued support.
written. ‒ i welcome the results achieved within the european endowment for democracy (eed) in the current challenging international environment and believe that the eed is fulfilling its main objective of promoting and fostering democratisation and achieving deep and sustainable democracy in countries in political transition and in societies struggling for democratisation. the role of the eed is, inter alia, to provide assistance to the underprivileged, which includes fighting corruption, promoting dialogue in diversity and non-violence, encouraging social and political participation, and protecting the activists and journalists who are doing their best to enable and accelerate the democratic process at the local level. the european foundation for democracy is a key player in the fight against corruption and organised crime, and is a key player in the fight against organised crime. i therefore support this report.
written. ‒ i support this report because the key objectives of the european union's external policy are to promote both democracy, the rule of law and fundamental freedoms. the arab spring and developments in the eastern neighbourhood have led to a reshaping of the way eu policy instruments work, and authoritarian regimes are being used, both by means of legislation and by many other means, to restrict the activities of ngos and pro-democracy actors. it is necessary to fight against all forms of censorship social and political, to promote objective and independent information, the internet and social media in order to protect freedom of the press and expression, because this is the meaning of democratization, as well as strengthening the rule of law and the fight against corruption. the eed delivers results in the international environment in which it operates and provides support for democracy, civil society organisations, social movements and activists.
written. ‒ i supported the report which positively assessed the work of the european foundation for democracy because i believe that the foundation complements the traditional state-oriented approach through direct cooperation with movements organised at local and regional level as well as with democratic political actors. i believe that this is the way to achieve the key objectives of the european union's external policy, namely the promotion and support of democracy, the rule of law and respect for the universality of human rights and fundamental freedoms. i believe that the foundation, despite its short existence, has shown the ability to overcome or address shortcomings in cases of the impossibility of obtaining funds for a specific purpose. i therefore support the recommendation that the european endowment for democracy be guaranteed long-term sustainable funding so that it can continue to develop innovative ways and instruments to promote democracy.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the european parliament resolution on the situation in burundi (2015/2723 ((rsp)) as the country is facing a serious political, economic and humanitarian crisis. the political impasse in burundi and the deteriorating security and economic situation are having a severe impact on the population and are posing a risk to the entire region. it is the country's worst crisis since a 12-year ethnically-based civil war that by 2005 had claimed an estimated 300,000 lives. it is urgent to end the violence and political intimidation of the opposition, to disarm all armed groups affiliated to political parties and to urgently launch humanitarian assistance for those who have been forced to flee their homes. it is necessary to take all measures that will lead to the reduction of instability and to launch all the earlier measures aimed at creating a democratic environment as a prerequisite for the development of this one of the poorest countries in the world.
written. ‒ the unrest in burundi has been ongoing for the past three months since president pierre nkurunziza announced his candidacy for a third consecutive term in the presidential elections. the reaction to this announcement was protests and a failed military coup in may of this year. the country is in a state of chaos, the worst since 2005, when the 12-year civil war ended. human rights violations are a daily occurrence in this country and all this is a reason to try to find a solution as soon as possible in accordance with the arusha agreement and the burundian constitution. it is necessary to postpone the elections so that they can take place in a safe environment and not in an atmosphere of unrest, fear, human rights violations and general chaos as is currently present in this country which is why i supported the european parliament's resolution on the situation in burundi.
written. ‒ under the arusha peace and reconciliation agreement, the president can only serve two terms, and president pierre nkurunziza has been in power since 2005 and was re-elected in 2010 in an election that the opposition boycotted after accusing the government of intimidation. on 26 april 2015, president nkurunziza announced that he would run for a third term, claiming that he was entitled to do so because he was first elected by lawmakers, triggering renewed unrest in the country and sparking protests and a failed military coup in may. on 14 may 2015, 17 officers were arrested in connection with a failed coup d'état led by former general major godefroid niyombare who fled the country, resulting in violence and a series of shelling that killed more than 70 people and caused widespread displacement. i support the motion for a resolution calling for the credibility and proper conduct of the electoral process in a peaceful and transparent manner and condemning violence and violations of human rights and political freedoms. i also ask the commission to submit to parliament in due course an overview of the situation in burundi, as well as a report on the implementation of the points in this resolution calling for concrete action.
written. ‒ i join in expressing deep concern at the deteriorating political and humanitarian situation in burundi and the wider region and in calling for an immediate end to violence and political intimidation of opponents; i express my condolences to the victims of violence and those who have lost their lives and call for urgent humanitarian assistance for those who have been forced to flee their homes. a lasting political solution in the interests of security and democracy for the entire burundian people can only be achieved through dialogue and agreement involving the government of burundi, the opposition and civil society in accordance with the arusha agreement and the constitution of burundi. the union is committed to the implementation of the un guidelines on the status of women, which are the basis for the implementation of the un guidelines on the status of women, and the un guidelines on the status of women. both the european union and its member states should contribute to the solution of this problem and pay all the commitments made to the un regional response plan for burundian refugees.
written. ‒ i support the motion for a resolution on the monitoring of the situation in burundi. the political situation is extremely worrying because it could lead to the escalation of new ethnic conflicts. this would have catastrophic consequences for the security of burundi and the region. the decision of the current president pierre nkurunziza to run for a third term in the presidential elections is contrary to the constitution and the arusha peace and reconciliation agreement of 2000. i condemn the excessive reaction of the state police under nkurunziza's control to the protesters. it is absolutely unacceptable that the elections take place in an atmosphere of violence, shelling and human rights violations, without the participation of the opposition due to the unsolved murder of the opposition leader zedi feruzi, and media censorship. as vice-chair of the ep's foreign affairs committee, i call for an immediate end to the violence, the return of all opposition refugees and respect for the arusha agreement in terms of holding democratic and transparent elections. the role of the european union should remain in line with the position of high representative mogherini, who said that the eu strongly supports the efforts of the 'intermediary group' made up of representatives of the un, the african union, the east african community and the international conference on the great lakes region. i support the position of the mediation group that a dialogue between the ruling and opposition parties should be established quickly, and that elections should be postponed until 31 july 2015, when citizens should be able to choose their legal and legitimate representatives.
written. ‒ i support the european parliament resolution on the situation in burundi, given the constant violation of human rights and the impossibility of holding fair elections in that country. also, given that the african union commission has announced that it will not attend and observe the elections and due to the control of independent media, i believe that holding independent, fair and legitimate elections is not possible. sadly, burundi is facing its worst political crisis since the war and threatens to spread the crisis to other african countries. i am deeply concerned about the number of victims and refugees from burundi. i condemn all the crimes against human rights committed in burundi.
written. ‒ this resolution highlights the fundamental problem of the current political and social crisis in burundi, namely president nkurunziza's attempt to win a third term in office, even though this is contrary to the burundian constitution. i believe that this attempt to retain power has caused serious social divisions, and that this has led to the death of 70 people in protests and the displacement of more than 110,000 burundians to tanzania, rwanda and the democratic republic of congo. i also support the commission's position that it is alarmed by the increasing violence and dangerous actions of the police and calls on the authorities to take concrete measures to contain them. the fact is that the current political and security situation does not provide the conditions necessary for the holding of free, fair and credible elections, and i therefore support the call on the burundian authorities to postpone the presidential elections due to be held on 15 july 2015 in order to pave the way through consensus and dialogue towards a lasting political solution to deepen democracy and the rule of law and to ensure safe conditions for the return of refugees. i also support the request to continue monitoring the situation in burundi and to consider providing additional humanitarian assistance in addition to the eur 1,5 million of assistance already provided by the commission's humanitarian aid and civil protection department to burundian refugees in rwanda.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the joint resolution on commemorating srebrenica because i am convinced that the european parliament must forever commemorate the horrors of the genocide that took place in srebrenica. the starvation of innocent people and the srebrenica war is the worst thing that happened on european soil since world war ii. i hope that july 11 will become a day to commemorate the genocide that was perpetrated in srebrenica, but unfortunately in many other places as well. this resolution contains a clear statement that the european union is built on unity in diversity, and this is a message to all the peoples of bosnia and herzegovina. in view of the failure of the united nations to adopt a resolution on srebrenica, this document of the european parliament is all the more important at a time when the council of ministers of bosnia and herzegovina unanimously decided to mark a day of mourning in bih on the occasion of the srebrenica genocide. i see this resolution as a call to politicians in bosnia and herzegovina to stop dividing and to move unitedly on the european path so that all citizens of bosnia and herzegovina finally have a true european perspective. the european union is ready to welcome all the countries of the western balkans into its fold and this is an opportunity that simply cannot be missed.
written. ‒ on the occasion of the 20th anniversary of the commemoration of the terrible crime of genocide and ethnic cleansing committed in srebrenica, where more than 8 000 men and boys were executed, i supported the european parliament's resolution expressing deep condolences to all the victims and their families. the resolution wishes to recall that such crimes must never be repeated, calls on all actors, political representatives and civil society to create the conditions for a better future for citizens and to respect the judgments of the international courts that have declared this crime a genocide. we need to know and acknowledge the past and provide assistance to the families of the victims in their attempts to find and bury their loved ones and to find a solution for a stable and equal bosnia and herzegovina.
written. ‒ during the war, srebrenica was a un protected zone in bosnia and herzegovina. despite being designated as an area 'free from any armed conflict or any other hostile act', it was occupied by the forces of the army of republika srpska led by war criminal ratko mladic on 11 july 1995. in the days that followed, over 8,000 bosnian men and boys were systematically massacred in the greatest crime to have occurred on the european continent since world war ii. the european parliament adopted for the first time a resolution on the srebrenica massacre and opposed any denial, relativization or misinterpretation of the events in srebrenica. the resolution condemns in the strongest possible terms the genocide in srebrenica and states that 'such heinous crimes must never be repeated'. a day earlier, the un security council failed to do exactly the same thing because its member russia vetoed a un resolution that would also have condemned the massacre as a "crime of genocide". as the eu is built on peaceful coexistence and cooperation between member states, i call on serbia to face the truth and accept its responsibility for the genocide in srebrenica and in doing so show that it respects european values.
written. ‒ as 11 july 2015 marks the 20th anniversary of the genocide and ethnic cleansing that took place in and around srebrenica during the bosnian war, and as these crimes, committed by units of the army of republika srpska under the command of general ratko mladic and the leadership of the then president of republika srpska radovan karadzic, are a fresh reminder of the dangers of extreme forms of nationalism and intolerance in society further exacerbated by the war, i support the adoption of this resolution as a form of tribute to the survivors, but also to their relatives, who survived this terrible crime that we must not allow to be relativized or forgotten. reconciliation can come through repentance and forgiveness, and this is crucial for the future of the region and good neighbourly relations for the process of european integration of bosnia and herzegovina into the eu. political representatives in bosnia and herzegovina need to acknowledge the past in order to work together for a better future for all citizens of the country.
written. ‒ i support this motion for a resolution because in july 1995 in the town of srebrenica in bosnia and herzegovina, after having been declared a protected zone under the united nations security council resolution and under the protection of unprofor, genocide was committed after the town fell into the hands of the serbian army led by general ratko mladic. in that period, some 30,000 women, children and elderly people were expelled, while more than 8,000 muslim boys and men died in the bloodshed. even today, many bodies have not been found, making this tragedy alive and leaving its mark on today's society. the european union's aim is to promote peace, which is why crimes must be condemned and victims and their families honoured. the main priority of the european union and the international community is the prevention of genocide, but also the punishment of genocide and crimes against humanity. regional cooperation and the process of european integration should help to overcome hatred and divisions so that bosnia and herzegovina has a european perspective.
mr. president, after all that cambodia has been through, after the wars and tragedies that have been happening in cambodia, we expected that country to progress. these decisions are setting cambodia backwards, not forwards. the attempts to take away land, to reduce or abolish trade union rights, all the things that are done to ngos, in terms of respecting freedom, association and human rights, is something that clearly shows that cambodia is falling behind. it is a country that we have felt sympathy for and a country that we believe can work well with the european union. and here the eu must set a clear principle - we must and have the right to demand that those values that we share be respected and that cambodia, if it wants to cooperate with us, must also respect the elementary values that the eu cherishes.
mr. president, we can all ask ourselves if this is the prelude to an election campaign. are makwambala and bauma the new symbols of the congolese resistance and are they the new victims of what we can expect until the congolese elections? who else is going to plunder that land? who else is going to benefit from what's going on in the congo in a completely undemocratic, uncivilized way? and we can also ask ourselves who in europe might have an interest in such events in the congo? and who in europe could possibly have an interest in the congo regime? i think we have to be honest with each other and open up these questions because one thing is certain: europe has its interests in the congo, and if we have them, then let's try to bring this friendly country in some way to order.
mr. president, the free-thinking people of sudan rightly expect our support. two pastors who are unjustly imprisoned rightly expect our support. and we really need to act. because today's sudan is a country where not only are people being imprisoned, which is of course the worst, but symbols are being destroyed in addition. churches are being destroyed, no new churches are allowed to be built. it destroys the human spirit. the right to religious belief is being destroyed. the right to believe in your religion. and as a man who has always and everywhere fought for freedom of religion, whatever religion one may be, i condemn in the strongest terms what has happened in sudan and i want to believe that we are capable and strong enough to help pastors get out of prison.
madam president, i would like to make it clear right from the start that we need to make a clear distinction between what traditional hunting means for the inuit and traditional life in indigenous communities and what excessive hunting means or even burning seals, or somehow trafficking in seals goods that are certainly not necessary. however, apart from the fact that this is the subject of today's debate, and i want to express my solidarity with all that is happening around these animals, i want to highlight another problem that we are not talking about here, and i come from croatia as you know, and i want to talk about the problems that exist in the western balkans where they are disappearing, literally disappearing rare animals like big cats, bears are being killed, wolves are being killed and foxes are being killed, all because of trade, and i think that this issue also needs to be sensitized to the public and i expect the commission to do something about it and to take action.
mr president, reports on fundamental rights in the european union are usually ideologically coloured and promote left-liberal ideas and policies. this time, unfortunately, is no different. the content of the report did not surprise me in the least, but i cannot help but wonder how much better life would be in europe if the rights of individuals were taken into account as much as the rights of various minority groups. today, we in this house no longer speak of the rights of the individual, least of all the minorities in the world. we don't spend much time and energy on his right to live off his own work, instead of having the state take most of his income, or the right to raise his own children, instead of being indoctrinated through the public education system. and when that individual is an unborn child, all these great advocates of minority rights would not allow that helpless human being even that basic right - the right to life. that is why i will never support reports like this which promote positive discrimination against minorities, while at the same time throughout europe the fundamental human rights of our other citizens are being violated.
mr president, as we try to find a way to take care of the hundreds of thousands of refugees arriving at our borders, we should also remember the thousands of european citizens who work as economic migrants in countries in north africa and the middle east. one of them is tomislav salopek, a 31-year-old croatian citizen, father of two children, whose fate is uncertain after being kidnapped in egypt in late july. unfortunately, the photos released today suggest the worst - yet another barbaric act by the so-called islamic state. however, this case stands out from the others because tomislav is an employee of a european company in egypt, he did not reside in the territory occupied by the islamic state, but he was unfortunately not provided with adequate protection. this indicates that the scale of the problem of the so-called islamic state is wider than thought. i don't know which is more dramatic, the growing influx of unhappy refugees or our lack of a coherent response to the problem where it arises. let us send a clear call to european companies operating in these volatile areas: secure your workers who only want to secure a better future for their families.
mr. president, i would like to point out today events that i abhor and that have deeply shocked me, but which are hidden from the public eye. the center for medical progress has released nine video clips that clearly show that the planned parenthood association of america is involved in the illegal sale of body parts from aborted babies. the videos show that these activities are not limited to one institution, but are widespread. planned parenthood association of america is part of the international planned parenthood federation, which is funded, among other things, by the european commission, and that's generously. the organization has branches in most european union member states. so we cannot rule out the possibility that the same thing is happening in the european union. given the seriousness of this situation, i demand that an investigation be launched and that the funding for this organization, which is engaged in such appalling and heinous illegal activities, be immediately terminated.
mr. president, i would like to thank my colleague corbett and the other colleagues from the other committees with whom i have had the opportunity to work on this report. the hearings of candidates for european commissioners are a process that gives the european union, and parliament in particular, a lot of attention and a lot of visibility. since we are electing the people who will hold the most responsible positions and functions in the european commission for the next five years, we must ensure that they are competent, qualified and that their morality is beyond question. the process of hearing the commissioners exposes them to a public that dissects their lives and careers, and that's the way it should be. but i think we need to involve the citizens of the european union in the whole process so that they can have their say in the hearings. i'm very pleased that my proposal to extend the financial interests review to family members was included in the final document. finally, we want the member states to propose a male and a female candidate each time, so that we have real gender equality.
madam president, i congratulate mrs schaake on her report and i want to say right at the outset that the internet has of course opened up a great new area of freedom. but it also reminds me a little of what a great man, alfred nobel, did, who invented dynamite believing it would serve peaceful purposes, and later, as we know, it was used for wars. so is the internet. in a way, it opened up vast areas of freedom, but it also opened up great dangers of misuse. in particular, the abuse of that freedom by dictatorial regimes with which, as we know, the european union also trades and does big, lucrative business. it is therefore good that this report warns of such facts, of the possibility of abusing our freedoms, and i believe that the commission will also use the basis of this report in its future work.
madam president, this is a particularly important report because family businesses have traditionally been the backbone of the european economy. their survival and growth are crucial to creating a positive economic, social and demographic picture of the european continent and i am glad that the rapporteur recognises this. i would also agree with the need to internationalise the operations of these companies, as many of them have huge potential that remains untapped within local or regional operations. in doing so, i consider the removal of the administrative burden that makes production and trade more expensive to carry out the most important step in the process of opening up small family businesses to the european single market. excessive regulation benefits large economic operators and helps create monopolies, which not only destroys the tradition of european family businesses but also threatens the 60% of private sector jobs that these companies provide.
madam president, when we talk about the blue economy we could really talk about a lot of things because the blue economy is an extremely broad field. croatia, the country i come from, is a country that has the adriatic sea, and the blue economy plays a very important role in the development of our country. however, something i want to emphasise is the issue of shipbuilding and that is why i want to make it clear to commissioner timmermans that i believe that the european union must use as much public money as possible, in synergy with the national states and local and regional authorities, to work on funding research and innovation in shipbuilding. the ship is a unique european product. a unique european product because it can be made up of different parts coming from different countries. i therefore urge us not to forget european shipbuilding, which, as we know, still provides many jobs today and which i certainly expect will do so in the future.
madam president, they say america will be one big shopping center, asia a factory, africa a tourist destination, and europe a museum for a hundred years or more. this is what the futurists say, in good faith, showing that our tangible and intangible cultural heritage is invaluable. so i just want to make one point. let us look at what culture means for european tourism and that's all we've said. how much of an economy is there? how much of our identity is there? that is why i support the european capital project, but i suggest that the commission also consider whether we might have regions as cultural destinations. that is, we have a yearly cultural region like we have a cultural capital.
mr president, istria, a small european region in western croatia, is perhaps the best example of how public water supply can meet citizens' needs and their right to water. and indeed, a basic, elementary, human right is the right to water. we've managed to get in one relatively rural region where 99.4 percent of the population has a public water supply, drinking water. this is primarily thanks to the solidarity of citizens and the public local and regional sector. that's why i'm not, despite being a member of the alde group, in favor of privatizing the water supply system at any cost. in fact, on the contrary, it has been shown that water is something that every citizen has a right to, and in this context i strongly advocate that water and water management be as much publicly owned as possible, because it is a guarantee that then every citizen will have a right to water.
madam president, cloning is a technology with great potential in medicine and science, but its use in livestock farming and food production in europe should be unequivocally prohibited. the vast majority of eu citizens do not want to eat any meat grown by cloning. the commission's proposal to ban cloned animals but allow meat from the offspring of cloned animals is therefore unacceptable. such food should also be prohibited or, at the very least, clearly labelled. in addition, the currently available cloning technology often causes fetal deformities, uterine damage, painful conditions in animals, which is ethically unacceptable. the european consumer knows what he wants and what he does not want. he supports cloning research for medical and scientific purposes, but he doesn't want that kind of meat on his table. that is why i support this directive and call on the european commission to listen to the voice of its citizens.
madam president, i support the ban on the cloning of animals kept and bred for agricultural production and i regret that the european parliament has not been as unanimous when it comes to some of the other controversial practices and methods that are being used in agricultural production today. existing animal cloning techniques cause unnecessary suffering to animals, and cloning techniques have not progressed in the last decade and there is no scientific justification for their widespread application and use in animal husbandry. the only motive for applying such controversial techniques is profit, thus undermining competitiveness and unnecessarily increasing efficiency, especially when it comes to agricultural production, which is sufficient in the european union and which results in huge surpluses that unfortunately result in food waste. animals are reduced to mere machines, not living beings worthy of our concern. i also note that i am against any importation of cloned animals and reproductive material from third countries or encouraging the use of such techniques in third countries.
madam president, let me be perfectly clear right from the start. i am against any animal cloning for the simple reason that it is ethically unacceptable. it's not clear what eating meat means to the human body, to our organism, and i also want to be absolutely clear that this is really something that is at odds with animal welfare. it is quite clear that the experience of more than a decade so far shows that there are no significant developments and no significant results. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the animal health and welfare of the european union is not compromised. i am also deeply convinced that the importation of such products should be prohibited.
madam president, the fight against customs infringements involves the exchange of information within the framework of cooperation between the member states and the commission, and i urge the said parties to take a tougher line against the offenders. when importing and exporting various goods, often inaccurate and incomplete data are presented, which we have also witnessed in croatia when importing meat and meat products as well as other food products. i strongly advocate that this be stopped and that the movement of goods from their origin to their destination, namely us, the final consumers, be more tightly controlled. i consider it necessary to create conditions for an improved fight against customs fraud relating to the misrepresentation of the origin of goods, the misrepresentation of goods and the abuse of the transit system. i have personally advocated on several occasions for the transparent indication of the origin of the products on the labels, as well as the entire traceability process, including the date of slaughter when it comes to meat. in that case, i believe they would put an end to the sale of frozen meat aged seven years or more that is imported into the croatian market.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the draft legislative resolution of the european parliament on the draft council decision authorising member states to ratify, in the interest of the european union, the protocol of 2014 to the international labour organisation convention on forced labour, which deals with social policy issues, because i condemn all forms of forced labour and consider that the legal framework in question needs to be further strengthened in order to put an end to such actions and approaches. i consider that the said protocol strengthens the administrative international legal framework by which the signatory states undertake to strengthen the prevention of all forms of forced labour and to provide victims with specific protection mechanisms. however, national action plans must also be developed to further contribute to this struggle involving millions of people around the world. moreover, the main legal texts of the european union condemn forced labour and i therefore consider that ratification of the protocol is in line with all european principles and regulations.
written. ‒ i supported the recommendation of mep le hyaric giving its consent and joining the calls of the commission and the council for the member states of the european union to ratify as soon as possible the international labour organisation's convention on forced labour, which deals with social policy and labour standards issues. the convention aims to strengthen the legislative framework protecting workers from forced labour and providing protection to victims of forced labour. at a time when europe is facing a large influx of refugees from war zones, but also economic migrants in search of a better life, it is important to ensure respect for human rights, prevent trafficking in human beings and ensure opportunities for decent work for all. among other things, the convention calls on governments to provide greater protection for potential employees in the recruitment process, particularly refugees.
‒ the forced labour convention of 1930 is one of the founding conventions of the international labour organisation, which sets international labour standards and is considered a human rights instrument. it is still used in practice, but the international labour organization was concerned by information from the early 20th century that at least 20.9 million people were victims of forced labor. it is therefore necessary to adopt this protocol, which sets out measures to prevent forced labour in society as it constitutes a threat to fundamental human rights and an offence against human dignity. i believe that there is a need to educate and inform people and to make efforts to implement this protocol in order to eradicate forced labour to a large extent in the member states of the european union and beyond. people have the right to work and earn a living, but in a fair and dignified way, and any form of forced labour that violates human rights and dignity can be condemned. we should not create and support a society that is more akin to slavery than democracy, and therefore we need to eradicate all the risks that contribute to the survival of forced labour.
written. ‒ it is devastating and absolutely unacceptable that in the 21st century, when we have already made progress in many areas, 21 million people are still victims of forced labour. this form of coercion affects men, women, and children without exception, whose only desire is to secure a better future for themselves and their loved ones. simply adopting a legislative framework is not enough because forced labour is happening in some of these countries, only in a more subtle way. and in the european union, 880,000 people are victims of forced labour, while in the whole of europe, the figure is almost double that. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's commitments under the paris agreement and will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's commitments under the paris agreement.
written. ‒ i support this report because the ilo protocol of 2014 is actually an update of the forced labour convention of 1930, which means that new tools to combat forced labour have been incorporated into that protocol. the protocol advocates strengthening the international legal framework, preventing forced labour and protecting victims with access to certain medicines. although the european union has already included the principle of the prohibition of forced labour in its primary legislation, it is necessary to work on this issue and to promote such initiatives, given that human lives and fundamental human rights are at stake and the legislation related to them should be constantly supplemented, upgraded and updated.
written. ‒ i support the implementation of the protocol on the prevention of labour slavery and adequate protection of workers, one of the fundamental documents. the provisions of the protocol strengthen the international and institutional legal framework by improving the social security of workers as well as safety at work. this protocol is in line with the times, because as the global interdependencies of the world develop, we are also seeing the emergence of some new forms of slavery and different types of exploitation of children and women in work and various forms of forced labour. the protocol allows for a revision of european social policy and greater freedom for workers in the performance of their work. this protocol is in line with the european union's human rights policy and is a crucial aspect of the total eradication of modern slavery.
written. ‒ i supported the recommendation on a draft council decision empowering member states, in accordance with the treaty of lisbon, to ratify the supplement to the forced labour convention of the international labour organisation. i consider this supplement to be extremely useful, as it sets out concrete tools and binding measures to combat forced labour which violates human rights and dignity. in fact, in the 21st century, as many as 21 million people are still victims of exploitation, both traditional forms based on physical or material restraint and debt slavery, which has long since taken on an international character. since the convention states that 'the context and forms of forced or compulsory labour have changed', i believe that effective changes are urgently needed to effectively and sustainably combat forced labour and implement the provisions mentioned. the protection and promotion of human rights within and beyond the borders of the european union requires constant education and information of the people, which will be ensured by the application of this convention.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the motion for a european parliament decision requesting the waiver of the immunity of janusz korwin-mikke, on the grounds that the case in question is an alleged offence which is clearly not connected with the performance of the duties of member of the european parliament or with the expression of an opinion or the voting in the exercise of those duties. accordingly, i support the waiver of immunity and the continuation of the legal proceedings.
written. ‒ mr janusz korwin-mikke is an independent polish member of the european parliament and a member of the committee on foreign affairs and a member of the delegation for relations with the people's republic of china. the deputy prosecutor general of the republic of poland forwarded the request of the chief of the municipal police of the city of piotrków trybunalski to initiate proceedings against the representative of korwin-mikke, for the alleged crime of speeding in a populated area. i support the report of ms evelyn regner and the decision based on the opinion of the committee on legal affairs to waive the member's immunity, as there is no doubt that the procedure will harm his political activity in parliament.
written. ‒ i respect the recommendation of the rapporteur because, although the offence committed and the legal process are not related to the opinion expressed or the vote in the performance of his duties as a member of the european parliament within the meaning of article 8 of protocol no 7 on the privileges and immunities of the european union and the alleged offence is clearly not related to the performance of his colleague mr korwin-mikke's duties as a member of the european parliament, there is no reason to assume, that is to say, a sufficiently serious and well-founded suspicion, that the proceedings were initiated with the intention of causing political damage to the member concerned (fumus persecutionis).
written. ‒ i support this report because the alleged act is in no way connected with the function of a member of the european parliament and there are no grounds for supposing that the aim of the procedure is to harm the political activity of the member.
written. ‒ member of the european parliament janusz korwin-mikke was observed driving at a speed exceeding the maximum speed limit on polish national roads, which was confirmed by the conduct of a satisfactory police investigation and the application of identification techniques. in view of the fact that the report clearly emphasises the absence of any link between the mandate of mr janusz korwin-mikke as a member of the european parliament and the incident in question and that there is no reasonable suspicion that the proceedings were initiated because of differences in ideological assumptions or with the aim of causing irreversible political damage to the member of the european parliament, i support the report on the waiver of the immunity of mr janusz korwin-mikke in accordance with the request of the prosecutor general of the republic of poland and by order of the chief of the municipal police of piotrkow trybunalski.
written. ‒ i supported the request to waive the immunity of polish mep janusz korwin-mikke who allegedly committed a crime related to speeding in a populated area. in accordance with the protocol on the privileges and immunities of the european union, members of the european parliament may not be subject to any form of interrogation, detention or judicial proceedings for expressing opinions or voting in the performance of their duties, and they must enjoy the immunity accorded to members of the parliament of that state in the territory of their state, and only the european parliament may decide whether that immunity is to be waived in that case. since the alleged offence is not directly or manifestly connected with the performance of the duties of a member of the european parliament, i consider that there is no reason to assume that the proceedings were initiated with the intention of causing political damage to the member concerned. in addition, the municipal police claim that the camera recorded that on 6 september 2014, the representative korwin-mikke exceeded the speed limit of 50 km/h in his vehicle and was driving at 82 km/h. i consider that the above arguments are sufficient to waive the immunity of the defendant and to allow him a fair and impartial trial.
written. ‒ since regulation 515/97 needs to be amended because it shows shortcomings, especially in customs evasion, i support the current course of the trialogue. the most important element of the negotiation- the joint database must be carefully negotiated. so i support entering the next round of the trialogue.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the draft legislative resolution of the european parliament on the council position at first reading with a view to adopting a regulation of the parliament and of the council amending council regulation (ec) no 515/97 on mutual assistance by the administrative authorities of the member states and cooperation by the latter with the commission to ensure the correct application of the law on customs and agricultural matters, as i believe that synergies and better cooperation between the administrative authorities of the member states contribute to more efficient and correct implementation of the law, especially in sensitive areas such as agriculture and customs. the commission shall be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 264 concerning the format and content of the information to be provided to the european parliament and to the council. i therefore support the adoption of the council's position at first reading in order to allow the work started on this issue to continue.
‒ the committee on the internal market and consumer protection adopted by a large majority the recommendation which is the subject of this vote, taking into account the council's position at first reading when adopting the draft legislative resolution. the recommendation for a second reading on the council position with a view to adopting a new regulation on mutual assistance between the administrative authorities of the member states and their cooperation with the commission to ensure the correct application of the rules on customs and agricultural matters has taken a step closer to the final adoption of a new regulation which will hopefully avoid situations such as incorrect indication of the origin of the product, incorrect indication of the composition of the product or manipulation during its transport. unfortunately, we have often witnessed such criminal acts when importing agricultural products into croatia, especially milk, meat, fruit and vegetables, and this must be stopped. i believe that the new regulation will offer just that and i call on all parties involved to adopt it as soon as possible.
written. ‒ i support the report by mrs jaakonsaari, having regard to the council's position at first reading, the opinion of the court of auditors of 25 february 2014 (), the position at first reading on the commission proposal to the european parliament and the council, article 294 (7) of the treaty on the functioning of the european union, article 76 of the rules of procedure, and the recommendation for the second reading of the committee on the internal market and consumer protection (a8-0234/2015) adopting the council's position at first reading. i am pleased that a compromise was finally reached and that parliament's position was adopted that import data on those products which are particularly vulnerable to fraud will be stored in a special database, taking into account the fundamental principles of data protection and privacy rights. we need more effective cooperation between national institutions, olaf and the european institutions to stop as much as possible fraud related to the import of agricultural products into the european union, as this report rightly emphasises.
written. ‒ i support this report because mutual assistance between the member states of the european union is extremely important, and that is the very meaning of the european union. mutual assistance between the administrative authorities of the member states in the correct application of the law on customs and agricultural matters is therefore essential, as it is the only way to enable people to work in the field in a high quality way. i supported the report as it proposes to improve the detection, investigation and prevention of customs fraud by better exchanging information, evidence and the functioning of the system between member states. the commission should also be able to provide the necessary information to the member states and the commission on the implementation of the union's macro-financial assistance.
written. ‒ i support this amendment to the provision because it addresses the difficult circumstances that are the way of cooperation between member states and the commission. the amendment of the regulation allows for the correct application of the provisions relating to customs matters and agricultural goods, which in turn should allow for a faster transfer of data necessary for the movement of agricultural goods through the customs of other countries without administrative difficulties. to improve enforcement, the european commission will now be able to request data from member states in cases of fraud investigations. however, this does not mean that they will have access to protected data, i.e. invade the privacy of individuals, given that the provisions of the lisbon treaty are respected.
written. ‒ as the current regulation on mutual assistance between the administrative authorities of the member states and their cooperation with the commission to ensure the correct application of customs and agricultural legislation leaves room for abuse in this area, i consider it extremely important to make changes to simplify and speed up the mechanisms for combating customs and similar fraud. in addition, it is necessary to clarify the rules introduced by this regulation, one of which is certainly that member states and the commission should have the same level of access to data, for example on the import and export of consignments of sensitive goods. those documents should be provided by the member states upon request by the commission, within a period of four weeks, which i consider to be a reasonable period for obtaining the data that economic operators should already have. in addition, i support the paragraph which states that the commission and the member states should respect the confidentiality of business information and ensure that the business information exchanged remains secret. since i consider that these amendments will lead to the correct application of that regulation, i supported those amendments.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the draft legislative resolution of the european parliament on the proposal for a regulation of the parliament and of the council amending regulation (ec) no 1007/2009 on trade in seal products, because i strongly support the fact that it is of particular importance to protect those animal species that are endangered or disappearing, and such situations exist throughout europe, including in the western balkans. in this respect, i think it is necessary to distinguish between the traditional life of indigenous communities, in this case the traditional sealing of inuit communities, and the excessive sealing for commercial and other purposes. i therefore believe that it is essential to raise public awareness and to further protect biodiversity, which is one of europe's greatest values.
‒ in 2009, the european union completely banned trade in seal products, with two exceptions. the first exception is products of hunting by the inuit (eskimo) community or other indigenous communities, the so-called ic exception, and the second is products of hunting solely for the purpose of maintaining marine resources and non-profit function, the so-called mrm exception. the commission proposal completely rejects the mrm exemption from the regulation and introduces a new criterion for the ic exemption. the commission notes that the amendments to the mrm exemption are not intended to remove the possibility of the amendment of the mrm exemption to the mrm exemption. bearing in mind that the mrm exemption represents a further step towards the increasingly less exploited and killed endangered species, i support the amendment proposal. a similar situation can be compared with the adriatic sea, which is rich in protected fish species. the commission has also concluded that the measures provided for in this decision are in accordance with the opinion of the advisory committee on fisheries,
written. ‒ seal hunting is an integral part of the culture and identity of the inuit and other indigenous communities. as such, it makes a major contribution to their survival and is not carried out for commercial reasons. the commission shall be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 26 to supplement this regulation by laying down detailed rules for the application of this regulation. the commission shall be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 26 to amend the list of products referred to in paragraph 1 by adding the following: in view of the protection of the inuit way of life on the one hand, and the misuse of seal products for commercial purposes on the other, i support this report which prohibits such exploitation.
written. ‒ seal hunting is an integral part of the culture and identity of the inuit and other indigenous communities, contributing to their existence, providing food and a source of income necessary for life, and not merely a hobby or hobby. for these reasons, seal hunting traditionally carried out by inuit and other indigenous communities does not raise the same moral concerns in the public mind as hunting conducted primarily for commercial or recreational purposes. the social interests of the inuit and other indigenous communities should not be compromised, in line with the un declaration on the rights of indigenous peoples and other relevant international instruments, which is why regulation (ec) no 1007/2009 exceptionally allows the placing on the market of seal products resulting from hunting traditionally and sustainably conducted by the inuit and other indigenous communities. i support the rapporteur's proposal that the commission should consider developing appropriate measures to counter the possible negative effects that the application of regulation (ec) no 1007/2009 may have on inuit and other indigenous communities, as long as the restriction relates to hunting that contributes exclusively to the essential livelihood of the communities that depend on it.
written. ‒ i support this report as the rules in trade need to be adapted and tried to be uniform across the system. the report shall implement the wto recommendations and rules as regards seal products. the measures introduced and recommended by the wto are of high quality and thoroughly considered and adopted and are in line with the principles of free but regulated trade. regulation of seal products will achieve a regulated market and ultimately protect and inform consumers about these lesser known and widespread products. it is precisely for the sake of quality regulation that certain restrictions should exist and that they ultimately result in consumers getting only the best and highest quality products.
written. ‒ i support the initiative to re-examine all the elements and amendments of regulation (ec) no 1007/2009 in order to find a solution that will suit all indigenous communities and inuit, but we must also take care to preserve the species and avoid any form of discrimination between member states. seal hunting is an integral part of the culture and identity of the inuit and other indigenous communities and contributes greatly to their existence. when we make decisions like this, we have to think in advance whether we're threatening the existence of these communities with quotas and legislation. in accordance with the un declaration on the rights of indigenous peoples and other relevant international instruments, the fundamental and social interests of inuit and other indigenous communities should not be compromised. the commission has also taken into account the fact that the commission has not yet adopted a decision on the application of the principle of proportionality. all provisions and legislative acts must be identical and implemented in the legislation of each member state.
written. ‒ i supported the necessary changes to the existing regulation banning trade in seal products in the european union, which allows two exemptions: the marine resource management exemption and the exemption relating to the sale of these products by the eskimos and other indigenous communities. as the world trade organisation has found that these exemptions discriminate against norwegian and canadian seal products and requires the termination of the marine resource management exemption and the amendment of the exemption relating to the eskimo exemption, these amendments will ensure that it relates to the maintenance of their traditional way of life and living conditions, without being exploited for commercial purposes. i consider that a particularly important provision of these amendments is the requirement that the commission should examine the effects of these amendments to the original regulation in order to effectively implement the said balanced provisions which support the european union approach to animal welfare. i believe that the european union is thereby demonstrating that it is a committed and responsible member of the world trade organisation which respects the communities whose seal hunting is part of their traditional way of life.
written. ‒ i supported this directive because the vast majority of eu citizens do not want to eat any meat grown with cloning technology. the commission's proposal to ban cloned animals but allow meat from the offspring of cloned animals is therefore unacceptable. such food should also be prohibited or, at the very least, clearly and unambiguously labelled. the european consumer knows what he wants and what he does not want, and that is why i call on the european commission to listen to the voice of its citizens.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the draft legislative resolution of the european parliament on the proposal for a directive of the parliament and of the council on the cloning of bovine, porcine, ovine, caprine and equine animals kept and bred for production purposes because i am opposed to all types of animal cloning for several reasons. first of all, the consequences of eating such meat on the human body are still unknown, and such practices are also ethically unacceptable. in addition, there is still no significant progress in terms of animal welfare, given that animal cloning has been shown to cause a wide range of health problems. furthermore, i support a ban on the import of cloned animal products.
written. ‒ although animal cloning can be considered a major step towards the development of medicine, bioengineering and biotechnology, it is the moral and ethical aspect of cloning that is called into question. the only countries in the world that allow animal cloning are the united states, canada, argentina, brazil, and australia. the european union does not allow cloning for breeding purposes. the commission's proposals prohibit the use of cloning techniques for farm animals, the placing on the market of live clones and the sale of foodstuffs such as eggs and milk from cloned animals. scientific studies have shown that cloning is detrimental to animal welfare and a eurobarometer survey showed that union citizens consider cloning to be unsafe and worrying. i believe that the cloning of animals for breeding purposes and the importation of cloned animals and their derivatives from third countries should be prohibited. like most eu citizens, i consider cloning to be ethically and morally questionable and i supported the report by mep moi and sommer.
written. ‒ the aim of this directive is to stop the use and marketing of animal cloning techniques for breeding and to ensure that all farmers and breeders in the eu are subject to the same conditions and adequate care to protect animal welfare. i am absolutely against cloning because it is an invasion of ethical principles and a usurpation of powers not given to us by natural law. directive 98/58/ec on the protection of animals kept for farming purposes sets very minimum animal welfare standards for animals used in agriculture. this does not apply to cloning, but it does call on member states to avoid unnecessary pain, suffering or injury to domestic animals. the cloning directive will temporarily ban the use of the cloning technique in the production of five species of domestic animals and the placing on the market of clones of foals and animals. the suspension of the cloning technique and the import of cloned animals for production purposes strikes a fair balance between animal welfare, public concerns and the interests of farmers, breeders and other stakeholders involved, and i therefore supported the adoption of such a proposal.
written. ‒ in implementing union policy and taking into account the treaty on the functioning of the european union, a high level of protection of human health and consumer protection, as well as a high level of animal welfare and environmental protection, should be ensured. the cloning of animals is not in accordance with council directive 98/58/ec14 laying down general minimum animal welfare requirements for animals reared or kept for production. and the croatian parliament's agriculture committee last year spoke out against the cloning of domestic animals, specifically cattle, pigs, sheep, goats and horses, and against the use of clones in human food. the cloning of animals for food production endangers the essential features of the european production model based on product quality, food safety, consumer health, taking into account the objectives of the union's common agricultural policy, the results of efsa's scientific assessments based on available studies, the animal welfare requirement of article 13 tfeu and consumer concerns, it is appropriate to prohibit the cloning of animals for production and the placing on the market of animals and products resulting from the application of the cloning technique with strict animal welfare rules and the application of environmentally acceptable methods.
written. i support the report by colleagues renate sommer and giulie moi on the proposal for a directive of the european parliament and of the council on the cloning of bovine, porcine, ovine, caprine and equine animals kept and bred for production. the european food safety authority (efsa) considers cloning primarily as a risk to animal welfare associated with the low efficiency of the technique. efsa has identified animal welfare concerns related to the health of surrogate mothers and of the clones themselves. surrogate mothers are particularly affected by placental abnormalities, which contribute to increased abortion rates. the use of the technique is not recommended for the treatment of equine infections. the commission should also be able to assess the impact of the use of cloned animals in the union on the health and safety of consumers, in particular by examining the impact of the use of cloned animals in the union on the health and safety of consumers. i therefore agree with the proposal for this directive which provides for the suspension of the use of cloning techniques for food production and the placing on the market of live animal clones. this will limit production techniques that cause animal suffering to areas where they appear to be of particular benefit by temporary bans.
written. ‒ first of all, i would like to point out that animal cloning is not in accordance with council directive 98/58/ec laying down general minimum welfare requirements for animals reared or kept for production purposes. at present, cloning is not used for breeding purposes in the european union. however, i would like to draw attention to the way cloning is used in third countries. the 2010 eurobarometer surveys show citizens' support for cloning at only 18%, indicating little chance of a change in european citizens' attitudes in the near future. in the plenary i supported amendments seeking to change the status of a legal act from a directive to a regulation in order to improve legal certainty and ensure rationality and consistency in implementation, while respecting the principles of subsidiarity and proportionality. the amendments proposed in this draft report aim to establish an effective and coherent regulation addressing the legitimate concerns of the agricultural sector and of european citizens as a whole.
written. ‒ i support this report because it is unacceptable that animals used for human food should be cloned. although this is the practice in some countries outside the european union, such as the united states, canada, argentina, brazil and australia, i believe that food made from cloned animals should remain banned from european markets. consequently, food derived from animals that are the offspring of cloned animals should also be prohibited, since, among other things, its quality and its healthfulness are questionable. therefore, food imported from other countries into europe should be certified as not originating from clones, their descendants or as not being processed from various embryos, germs, clones or their descendants.
written. ‒ i support this report because it emphasises health issues above all. it is important to protect the persons who may potentially consume untested meat products, as well as the health and welfare of animals, given that cloning techniques are not sufficiently developed and in many cases involve animal abuse. the report stresses the need to tackle the problem explicitly and at its root, by banning the import of meat from the first generation of cloned animals and banning the import of meat from third countries without a certificate and import licence. the report is a compromise between rationality and emotion in the treatment of animals and is a clear sign of solidarity in decision-making within the eu institutions. the vote was taken on the citizens' explicit opposition to the meat products of cloned animals and any processing of their products.
written. ‒ i approve and consider justified both proposals contained in this directive - the temporary ban on cloning of traditionally bred species and the ban on the import of animals and embryos from clones, since the same excludes cloning for scientific purposes, for the conservation of rare and endangered species, for sporting and cultural events, and for the production of medical products and devices. i consider it appropriate to change the form of the commission's legislative proposal proposed in the report from a directive to a regulation, as this will allow the temporary ban to become permanent and will significantly broaden the scope of the ban to cover species bred for breeding purposes, the offspring of cloned animals, food and feed derived from the offspring of cloned animals. i also strongly support the finding in the report that it is extremely difficult to trace food derived from the offspring of cloned animals, and the proposal for export certificates and the creation of a tracking system at eu level that has resulted from it.
mr president, it is certainly necessary to continue to promote and strengthen the protection and full development of fundamental rights in accordance with the treaties and the charter of fundamental rights of the european union. we are all aware that in recent years there have been high levels of poverty and social exclusion, especially among children. over 26 million children across the european union are at risk of poverty and social exclusion. in addition, there is a worrying situation in syria, korea, iran, and also in our neighbourhood, belarus and ukraine, and here i want to emphasise crimea. however, i have always supported and insisted that citizens of the european union should enjoy the rights enshrined in the charter of fundamental rights, without discrimination on grounds of sex, religion or colour. unfortunately, some of the points of this resolution are here for the purpose of cheap political points and therefore i voted against this resolution. i fully support the european mechanism for monitoring fundamental rights in the member states and strengthening the protection of children's rights, the rights of persons with disabilities, roma rights and the rights of migrants.
mr president, respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms is the foundation of everything. freedom of expression, freedom of religion, equality and non-discrimination, promoting the rights of children, persons with disabilities, protection of migrants. all these rights must be protected by effective mechanisms and measures, with the safety and dignity of people at the forefront. this report unfortunately does not provide that, and i could not support it. in fact, it goes beyond the limits accepted by the basic treaty on european union and falls within the competence of the member states. i believe that we need to put the promotion and effective mechanisms for the protection of human rights first so that we do not witness in the future serious violations of fundamental human rights and freedoms, discrimination or hatred on any grounds. human rights must not be manipulated and must not be used under the guise of human rights protection to try to change the image of the family and society and to impose some new ideologies, which is what this report is trying to do and that is why i did not support it.
written. ‒ i support this report by my colleague on the situation of fundamental human rights in the eu. i agree that a human rights strategy should be accompanied by an action plan, in cooperation with civil society. i particularly like the part of the report that looks at thematic issues such as equality, the implementation of the anti-discrimination directive and 'solidarity in crisis'.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the european parliament's motion for a resolution on the situation of fundamental rights in the european union (2013 2014) because i believe that it is unacceptable that cases of serious human rights violations are still being recorded throughout the european union and its member states. the response to such situations must be determined and strong to prevent the same from occurring, regardless of the gender, sexual orientation, religion or skin color of the people. the current state of respect for fundamental human rights is of course not satisfactory at world level either, and a comprehensive approach is therefore needed to help find a common solution. in this context, i support the creation of an internal fundamental rights strategy in the european union to ensure the consistency of european legal instruments and principles.
written. ‒ the european union was founded on the desire for a democratic society, the rule of law and respect for human rights and freedoms. the union's citizens have been increasingly affected by developments in the neighbourhood and in the member states in recent years, and these foundations have been undermined. terrorist attacks result in growing intolerance and discrimination, violence in all its forms remains present, and the burning issue of migration from war zones poses a major threat and responsibility for all member states. however, i did not support the report by ms ferrara because it is not in line with the convictions of the club of deputies of the european people's party and certain positions are not in line with the promotion of the protection of fundamental human rights. our decisions must always take into account respect for human rights and freedoms enshrined in the charter of fundamental rights, such as freedom of the media, religion or minorities. citizens should be provided with security and equality, protected from all forms of discrimination and violence, and member states should be encouraged to strengthen institutional transparency and the implementation of strategies.
‒ the european union acts on the basis of the presumption that the member states respect democracy, the rule of law and fundamental rights, as enshrined in the european convention on human rights and the charter of fundamental rights of the european union, in particular with regard to the development of the area of freedom, security and justice and the principle of mutual recognition. since unemployment or living in poverty or on the social margins has a significant impact on access to and the enjoyment of fundamental social rights, it is necessary to emphasise in particular the need to ensure access to basic services, in particular social and financial services, for such disadvantaged persons. i agree that it is essential to ensure full respect for common european values and i agree with the proposal that the commission should introduce and further develop this framework for inclusion in the internal fundamental rights strategy, as i believe that the rule of law is a prerequisite for the protection of fundamental rights in the european union and its member states.
written. ‒ i did not support the report because it violates a fundamental principle of the functioning of the european union, namely the principle of subsidiarity, according to which each member state has the right to decide on questions of the definition of marriage and family policy.
written. ‒ i voted against the report because i think it also dangerously and completely unnecessarily interferes with the competences of the member states of the union. the report grossly violates the principles of proportionality and subsidiarity by attempting to extend the scope of union competence to immigration, detention and austerity. many of the compromises integrated into the report contain within themselves strongly condemnatory statements relating to the budget cuts that individual member states have made to overcome the recession. i also oppose the proposals contained in the report which call for the european union to establish a ladder of fundamental human rights, a procedural mechanism to punish violations of fundamental human rights and the monitoring of fundamental human rights in each individual member state of the union. i believe that these proposals go far beyond what is necessary to achieve the desired objective effectively and that they do not seek to solve problems at the lowest level, i.e. where they arise, but through the institutions of the european union. i am also strongly opposed to the insertion and imposition of certain already well-known terms in the report on fundamental human rights, such as euthanasia, abortion and sexual and reproductive health and rights. the gender ideology has been trying to sneak in under the protection of fundamental human rights for who knows how many times, which is scandalous, hypocritical and unacceptable.
written. ‒ the hearings of candidates for european commissioners are a process that brings great attention and visibility to parliament and the union as a whole. since we are electing people to the most responsible jobs in the european commission for five years, we must ensure that they are competent, qualified and that their morality is beyond question. i am very pleased that my proposal to extend the scrutiny of financial interests to the family members of future commissioners has been included in the final document. finally, we want each member state to propose at least two candidates, one male and one female, next time, to ensure gender equality. we must send a clear message that we will no longer accept a bare minimum of women in the commission. i support this report because i believe it addresses in a qualitative way the lessons learned during the 2014 hearing.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution of the european parliament on the procedures and means of hearing commissioner-designate, lessons from the 2014 procedure, because it is necessary to increase the transparency and democratic legitimacy of all european institutions and of the european union itself. public hearings of commissioner-designate certainly give parliament, but also citizens, an opportunity to become familiar with the political priorities of the candidates and to assess their professional readiness. it is also necessary to strengthen controls on declarations of financial interests by candidates and to use social networks to involve all eu citizens more closely in the process. citizen participation in decision-making and full transparency and consistency can certainly contribute to increasing trust in the eu institutions.
written. ‒ the hearings of candidates for commissioners of the european commission are designed to bring the institutions closer to citizens and to make it easier for the european parliament to judge candidates. this procedure also ensures transparency by making the information available to all in order to better understand and assess the qualifications of the candidates. i have endorsed the report of representative richard corbett which supports the practice of hearings and proposes guidelines on how to make hearings even more effective. the new rules include the possibility for each member state to propose two candidates a man and a woman on the basis of equality, increased controls on the declaration of financial interests of candidates and the high public interest that accompanied the 2014 hearings, and calls for the creation of a dedicated parliament website for greater transparency.
written. ‒ hearings of commissioner-designate have a 20-year history and are a well-established practice. since 1994, these hearings have increased the democratic legitimacy of the eu institutions and brought them closer to the citizens of europe. the commission should be able to exercise its powers under this regulation by exercising the powers conferred on it by the treaty on the functioning of the european union. of course, the hearing procedure can always be improved, although it is currently very effective. i agree with the suggestions of the committee members that it would be useful to set a deadline for all member states to propose their candidates so that the newly elected president of the commission has sufficient time to allocate the portfolio, taking into account the candidate's work experience and cv, and with the proposal of the member states that the gender balance be taken into account when proposing candidates. i also support the initiative to improve the controls on the financial interests and financial situation of candidates and their family members, because i believe that in their work the commissioners must be independent of any external influences and pressures. i also support the technical suggestions of the committee members regarding the hearing procedure and advocate its clear transparency and public availability. the commission shall be assisted by the european parliament and the council.
written. ‒ the hearings of commissioners-designate, which were first held in 1994, are now a well-established practice that increases the democratic legitimacy of the eu institutions and brings them closer to european citizens. they are necessary to enable parliament to make a judgement on the commission based on the information in the vote of confidence, thereby enabling the commission to take office. i support the provisions of this report which call for the establishment of deadlines for the appointment of candidates in order to allow sufficient time for the allocation of the portfolio of responsibilities and the preparation of candidates. the evaluation of the candidates should be made publicly available no later than 24 hours after the hearing. the principle of gender equality should also be taken into account when nominating candidates. i believe that this report constitutes a good set of guidelines for future hearings and therefore i once again express my support for it.
written. ‒ i support the report because transparency is one of the foundations of democratic systems. the commission should also be able to provide the european parliament with the necessary information to enable it to take decisions on the appointment of political officers and commissioners. that way they can be upgraded and changed to better-defined procedures in those elections.
written. ‒ contrary to the rather self-serving statements of the rapporteur, the democratic legitimacy of the european union will hardly find its light in dealing with minor procedural or even institutional adjustments. this can only be achieved by a comprehensive renegotiation of the treaties, i.e. by reducing the importance of supranational bodies and activities that have flared up to a worrying level over the last few decades, and by restoring cooperation between individual member states as sovereign partners. the politicization of the commission's selection process is also a concern. the commission's 2014 hearing was the most successful in terms of the number of votes it received, with 423 votes in favour, compared to 422 votes three months earlier when mr juncker was voted president of the commission. that's why i voted against it.
written. ‒ i support the report on human rights in third countries. i want to emphasise that security measures, including counter-terrorism measures, cannot be an excuse for violating the right to privacy and interfering with the legitimate activities of human rights defenders, journalists and political activists. i believe that respect for human rights is an essential element in the fight against terrorism. the eu must promote democratic oversight of security and intelligence services in its political dialogue with third countries.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the european parliament's motion for a resolution on 'human rights and technology: the impact of anti-terrorism and surveillance systems on human rights in third countries' because the report shows the benefits of information and communication technologies, but also points to the problems that can arise from their use. i believe that the internet has opened up spaces and a space of freedom that certainly has a positive impact on everyday life and helps protect certain human rights. but it's also clear that there's a lot of room for misuse of technology by a variety of actors, from local to global, and even terrorist organizations. in addition, security measures often invade privacy and create pressures on individual activists operating in different areas, and it is therefore of particular importance to regulate surveillance programmes in a qualitative and principled manner. in this context, when it comes to new technologies, i believe that it is necessary to respect the rule of law, prevent illegal actions and ensure democratic principles.
written. ‒ technological progress in the context of human rights is a double-edged sword, which is why i did not support the report by ms schaake. these advances have allowed us better communication, access to information and knowledge, and freedom of expression, but they have also created the danger and the ease of enforcement of human rights and privacy violations. technology should be used to raise awareness of the human rights situation in the world and to provide the opportunity to help people in need. it is important to define precisely the rules and procedures for using new technologies to protect citizens and their data. the problem of data protection, the setting of limits on data collection and use should be addressed as soon as possible, taking into account that certain services need to have access to information in order to ensure that the security of citizens is not compromised, especially at a time when we are facing numerous external threats. we need to be able to clearly distinguish between protecting citizens' data and protecting citizens from danger, and that should be our goal.
written. ‒ technological developments and internet access play an increasingly important role in enabling and guaranteeing the achievement and full respect of human rights and fundamental freedoms, thanks to the positive impact they have on the expansion of freedom of expression, access to information, the right to privacy, freedom of assembly and association worldwide. the commission should be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 290 concerning the definition of the concept of 'originating products' and the definition of the concept of 'originating products' and the definition of the concept of 'originating products' in accordance with article 21 of regulation (eu) no 1308/2013. public and private entities as well as governments and other bodies, criminal organisations and terrorist networks use technology to violate human rights. human rights and fundamental freedoms are universal and should be protected globally in every dimension. communications surveillance is a violation of universal privacy rights if conducted outside the appropriate legal framework. member states should promote full democratic oversight of the activities of intelligence services in third countries to ensure that those services operate in full respect of the rule of law and do so in the light of enhanced cooperation and exchange of information between member states and third countries. the commission should ensure coherence between the eu's external action and its internal policy on information and communication technologies.
written. ‒ today the internet is a revolution in terms of the possibilities it offers for the exchange of data, information and knowledge of all kinds, and since internet filters and surveillance of communications are compromising the ability of human rights defenders to use the internet and communicate sensitive data, and since they violate several articles of the universal declaration of human rights (udhr), which guarantees the right of every person to privacy and freedom of expression, i emphasise the fact that respect for fundamental rights is a key element for successful counter-terrorism policies, including the use of digital surveillance technologies. i agree with the rapporteur that member states should be encouraged to ensure democratic oversight of these services and their activities through appropriate internal, executive, judicial and independent parliamentary oversight, in the light of increased cooperation and exchange of information between member states and third countries, including through the use of digital surveillance. i agree with the call on the commission to engage civil society and independent experts, including security researchers, in the field of information and communication technologies in third countries, in order to ensure up-to-date expertise, which should result in the creation of a policy that can respond to future requirements and developments.
written. ‒ this explanation of the vote arises as a criticism of the existing system of evaluating the work of meps in the european parliament solely on the basis of the statistical number of parliamentary activities promoted in croatia, which does not actually reflect the actual quality and quantity of work, efficiency and above all the success of the representative action.
written. - i voted against the report because it calls for every individual to have the right to encryption and that the conditions for using encryption should be created for all users. the report also calls for whistleblowers to be considered human rights defenders, which is also not a universal pattern.
written. ‒ i support the report on 'human rights and technology: the impact of anti-fraud and surveillance systems on human rights in third countries'. technology and internet access allow people to express themselves freely, but if not used for the right purposes, they can also be a tool for human rights violations. the european union should set an example, and european technology should not be used to help violate human rights. technology and internet access these days allow for a detailed view of the documentation on everyone. there are systems that are designed to mass surveillance citizens and their personal devices without permission. it is necessary to know what technology we are using and what information we are unconsciously giving to others. european legislation must be an example to third countries where there are recorded cases of human rights violations, manipulation of the media, restrictions on freedom of expression. that's why i support more transparency, more accountability, and licensing of tools so they don't get sold to oppressive regimes. measures need to be taken to ensure that eu technologies are not used against our values and interests, i.e. that they are not tools for terrorist organisations.
written. ‒ the subject of this report is highly controversial - digital surveillance and its use as a tool to impose restrictions on third countries and to violate the fundamental human rights and freedoms of their citizens. the commission therefore concluded that the measures in force were in line with the principles of the basic regulation and that the measures in force were in line with the principles of the basic regulation. i object to the stigmatization of eu companies that do business in countries with poor human rights records. i believe that it is not only important, but crucial, in this segment to strike the right balance between respect for human rights and the real need to use digital surveillance in situations where it is necessary to combat terrorism, extremist activities and crime. despite 176 amendments, the balance was not struck and instead of a balanced report, a form was voted on that remains highly critical of eu companies and eu member states. that is why i abstained.
mr president, i supported this report because it aims to strike a balance between the administrative burden and the effective financial control of the implementation of the common agricultural policy, which is one of the most necessary and successful policies of the european union. this policy has so far had a positive impact on the lives of many eu citizens, on the quality of life in rural areas, on food production, but also on the environment and nature protection. if we want this to continue in the future, we need to simplify the policy, make the rules understandable, and still maintain the necessary level of control. i think that simplification needs to be communicated more with the beneficiaries of the agricultural budget, especially with family farms, so that they can be honest about themselves, about their future, about their families, and comply with the rules consistently, which would also reduce the control costs, which now amount to as much as 4 billion euros a year.
written. ‒ protecting the financial interests of the european union is a key element of eu policy, as it strengthens citizens' trust in its institutions and their confidence that their money is being spent properly. the lisbon treaty has made a significant contribution to protecting the eu's financial interests, but what we all need to do more of together is to build the trust of citizens that the eu institutions work for their benefit.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the european parliament's motion for a resolution on the protection of the european union's financial interests: against performance-based controls of the common agricultural policy, because the common agricultural policy needs substantial and effective changes to ensure its effectiveness, coherence and full transparency. the commission has also proposed that the cfp be extended to cover the whole of the union, including the baltic sea, the baltic sea and the baltic sea. in this context, a more efficient and consistent system of control and inspection ensures the correct use of the financial resources allocated to the cfp. however, that system must also take into account a reasonable sanctioning policy, a comprehensive approach, which should be based on the principles of cost-effectiveness and reliability. i believe that the diversity and importance of the european agricultural sector require further improvement of cap controls and i believe that exchanges of best practice and the use of new technologies are key to this, which can certainly help to simplify bureaucratic procedures.
‒ the last reform of the common agricultural policy in 2013 has led to an even greater complexity of rules and administrative burdens, which are a major burden for european farmers and the development of the agricultural sector in the european union. the european court of auditors has found that to be the case. it was stressed that the costs of consulting interested farmers and other stakeholders and the costs of controlling payments within the common agricultural policy amount to a total of eur 4 billion. as the annual budget of the cap is around eur 50 billion, the eur 4 billion of costs represents a large burden on the cap budget and thus on the budget of the european union. the court of auditors also found that the new multiple compliance framework under the cap did not reduce unnecessary administrative complexity for farmers, which could lead to an increased number of errors and fraud in the cap. i supported this report which calls for a balance to be struck between reducing the administrative burden on farmers and more effective cost controls in the cap and improving the first level of controls to achieve a minimum burden on farmers. we encourage the european commission to adopt concrete measures to reduce the administrative costs for farmers and to protect the financial interests of the european union.
written. ‒ to protect the financial interests of the european union, it is necessary to establish a common agricultural policy with less red tape, which can be clearly implemented and interpreted in order to reduce the error rate and to establish instruments that allow the distinction between error and fraud, while ensuring that farmers can continue to engage in the vital food production that is at the heart of this policy. the continuation of addressing and targeting the complexity of the cap is one of the key elements for attracting and retaining new farmers and their skills in order to guarantee a successful union agricultural sector in the future, and strong action from the better regulation programme is expected in this regard. i therefore support the rapporteur's proposal to reduce the bureaucracy in the cap in order to reduce the error rate and to introduce instruments which would allow the distinction between error and fraud. the commission should also be able to use the information provided by the member states to assess the effectiveness of the national control systems.
written. in recent years, the common agricultural policy (cap) has undergone several reforms, which have increased the complexity of the procedures themselves, both for farmers and for the competent authorities. the more complex the rules, the more mistakes are made in the field. the budget allocates some eur 4 billion annually to checks on farmers' transactions and other supporting checks. i believe that the error rate needs to be reduced to a minimum and i also share the opinion of the european court of auditors that the payment mechanisms under the common agricultural policy for the period 2014-2020 remain very complex. the cap needs to be simplified in order to reduce the error rate, but also to attract and retain new, young farmers who will contribute to the success of the agricultural sector of the european union. the problem of depopulation of rural areas is a problem in many eu member states, including the republic of croatia. simplifying the cap is a necessary step towards solving the problem, and i therefore support the report by mr sarvamaae.
written. ‒ i support this report because it is important to ensure the protection of the financial interests of the european union in absolutely all spheres and political categories. the common objective should be to comply with the financial regulation and a single audit scheme should be established so that controls and financial checks should not be carried out twice or more than necessary. it is therefore of the utmost importance that all member states cooperate and provide accurate information. the best member states should be rewarded, the worst member states should be helped to do better and to strive for it, all this accompanied by thorough analyses and controls, because the protection of the financial interests of the european union should be high on everyone's list of priorities.
written. ‒ i support this report because it takes into account all parts of the cap and shows the shortcomings in the implementation of the cap within eu countries. the current innovations within this branch of the economy require a more agile agricultural policy that eu countries, with minimal unanimity, can implement in the short term. while the continuing successes in agriculture are often overlooked with the growing development of other economic sectors, we need to provide easier regulations for farmers across the european union, while ensuring that farmers are not overwhelmed by endless paperwork. the cap guidelines clearly assume a reduction in the cost of controls, but it is apparent from that report that this has not yet been done. i hope that this report will facilitate the future control and audit of agricultural activities within the eu member states and will serve as a basis for compensating for the shortcomings of the past years.
written. ‒ i support this report because it highlights the need to reduce the cost of cap controls and the associated administrative burden, leading to simplification of the cap. in particular, i believe that this simplification will greatly help croatian farmers who, as residents of a country that has recently become a member of the european union, are faced with new and complicated provisions, as well as farmers in other member states of the european union. the revised provisions of the ppa will thus be able to be implemented and interpreted clearly and there will also be fewer omissions in its implementation. in particular, i support the provisions of this report which call for the distinction between unintentional omissions and fraud, while at the same time i believe that a strong advocacy of quality and consistency of inspections will contribute more effectively to this objective than an increase in the number of controls in agriculture.
mr president, i have supported mrs niebler's report on family businesses in europe because we live in a time when we need to stimulate the economy and thereby reduce the huge numbers of unemployed, the youngest of whom are the most vulnerable. this form of economy represents an innovative source of private sector employment and therefore needs to be encouraged. there are many benefits and important roles of such family businesses, as they foster economic activities that are passed down through generations, contributing to economic growth. however, many member states lack the regulatory legislation and financial instruments to encourage the creation of new family businesses or to help existing ones. it is necessary to regulate the legislation, to create a favourable administrative climate that would enable such companies to operate successfully and a more successful national economy. it is necessary to create measures that would strengthen the economic environment and the development of family businesses at the european union level, to raise awareness of the problems related to family businesses, and we in croatia base our programmes on family businesses and in this way we want to start croatia.
mr president, i supported this report because family businesses represent more than 60% of all european businesses and they account for 40 to 50% of all private sector jobs. a small number of family businesses account for a large proportion of the total turnover of all businesses and thus contribute to job creation and growth and to the economic success of a country. family businesses often have a significantly higher share of equity than non-family businesses. the result is the economic stability of the company and the stability of the overall economy and the scope for further investment in that company. it is necessary to improve the legal framework for the transfer of family businesses, to create specific financial instruments for this transfer and thus to avoid a liquidity crisis in order to guarantee the continued survival of family businesses and to prevent their collapse or forced sale.
written. ‒ almost half of private sector jobs are created by family-owned smes. their preservation in times of crisis is of paramount importance. however, since european support to such enterprises is conditional on the obsolete definition of smes, it is necessary to modernise the existing system. the current situation forces a large number of companies to not develop in order not to lose their rights to various subsidies. i support this report because it proposes a revision of the existing definition and opens up the possibility for smes to become more competitive.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the european parliament's resolution on family businesses in europe because of the importance of family businesses in boosting the economy, given that over 60% of businesses in the european union are family-owned. i support the intention to help them with various measures and incentives to survive on the european market, as i believe that growth, investment and the promotion of jobs must be one of the key priorities of the european commission. i am convinced that this type of enterprise can be successful in the long term also because of the fact that in such structures the economic success of future generations is sought. however, a large number of family businesses have serious problems when the issue of succession is raised, for various legal and formal reasons, as well as technical reasons, such as taxation. i therefore consider that the legal framework needs to be adapted to allow them to deal more easily with the transition phase of succession and thus fully unlock their growth potential for the benefit of the union as a whole.
written. ‒ by definition, a family business in the european union is one in which the founder or the person who bought the business and the closest associates have the majority of the decision-making rights. analyses show that more than 80% of all european companies are family-owned and employ 60% of the people in the private sector. i supported the report by mrs niebler, which stresses the importance and benefits of this form of entrepreneurship and calls for further steps to develop family businesses, particularly in the context of financing, i.e. not restricting investment, and job creation. the number of family enterprises in croatia is estimated to be around the same as at union level. they often face economic and financial challenges, as well as administrative and legal obstacles. also, there is sometimes a problem of business-private relations, but that private aspect brings perseverance and commitment to survive in the most difficult moments of crisis. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's policy on the environment and the environment in the context of the union's action plan for the environment. we need to pay more attention to them, create rules, definitions and legislation to make it easier for member states to compare data and share good practices. it is important to provide family businesses with quality sources of finance and a positive investment climate.
written. ‒ it is well known that small family businesses have made a major contribution to the growth of the european economy and as such play an important role in economic recovery, social development, reducing unemployment (especially among young people) and investing in human capital, due to the multi-generational nature of family businesses. i therefore support the rapporteur's proposal proposing measures to develop the model and policy of family businesses, given that family businesses are expected to be characterised by high integrity and values in their business activities and to introduce high standards of corporate social responsibility towards employees and the environment, thus also creating a favourable environment for reconciling business and private life. i see the importance of family business policies in encouraging entrepreneurship and motivating european families to start their own family businesses. for example, it is estimated that 80 percent of small and medium-sized enterprises in croatia are family-owned and employ more than 60 percent of private sector employees. as well as the typical problems faced by all entrepreneurs, generational conflicts are common, but the biggest problem is definitely the untimely start of the business transfer process, which is why only 30% of family businesses survive the transfer to the next generation.
written. in times of recession and economic crisis, job creation, growth and investment are the main priorities of european union policy. the main emphasis is on small and medium-sized enterprises and the private sector in general. family businesses, although not defined or legally regulated in most member states, as well as at the european union level, should be, and are, economic drivers. more than 60% of the total number of privately owned enterprises in the european union are family businesses, which employ 40-50% of private sector workers. these figures are not insignificant; rather, they speak to the importance of this type of enterprise. the purpose of the niebler report is to encourage the european commission and the member states to analyse their laws on smes in more detail and to make it mandatory to include family businesses and their specificities in them. due to legal regulations and problems of vagueness, many family businesses, by force of opportunity, try to remain within the framework of small and medium-sized enterprises, which results in a bottleneck in hiring new workforce and generating higher revenues. i therefore support the report by mrs niebler and look forward to a solution to this economically important problem as soon as possible.
written. ‒ i support the report because it is necessary to create the right and sustainable conditions for the survival and business success of family farms and enterprises, since they represent more than 60% of enterprises and almost 50% of private sector jobs across the european union. family farms therefore need to be helped to develop, as their impact on the european economy and the number of people they employ are evident. furthermore, they are constantly growing, modernising and experiencing positive growth trends, so that they are a stable partner in job creation and employment in their local communities. for all these reasons, family farms need to be given the conditions to cope with the challenges they face on a daily basis, and as this report seeks to do so, i support it.
written. ‒ i supported the report which highlights the contribution of family businesses to european economic growth and social development, as well as to reducing unemployment and investing in human capital, as they create and maintain jobs in rural and disadvantaged areas, thereby contributing to reducing population ageing and migration. i believe it is essential to adapt european union legislation to the real conditions and needs of family businesses in order to benefit from funding programmes without creating unnecessary burdens for businesses. in addition, i support the call on the commission and the member states to provide information on internationalisation opportunities and to ensure the exchange of experience and best practices. if member states simplify administrative procedures and taxation systems and improve the legal framework for the transfer of family businesses, i believe that this will prevent forced sales and contribute to the development of the whole economy. in order to help businesses adapt to a rapidly changing environment, i believe that one of the most important elements is a training programme for small businesses, which will certainly be helped by the establishment of a single contact point for businesses at european level to which they can turn for assistance on specific issues relating to legislation and access to eu funding.
mr president, in these challenging times for the european economy, the sea and the coast are important drivers of the economy, and innovation in the blue economy, which represents a huge potential for new jobs and economic growth in general, needs to be addressed. the blue economy covers a wide range of economic sectors, from traditional to new, from fisheries to aquaculture, maritime transport, inland waterways, ports, logistics, tourism, shipbuilding, maritime works and coast guard, offshore energy sources, etc. the potential for exploiting marine resources is large and focused on the development of sustainable renewable energy sources and could make a significant contribution to the european union's energy security strategy by reducing member states' dependence on energy sources outside the european union. the development of a blue economy would boost economic development and job creation, especially in coastal regions, as mediterranean countries are the most affected by the crisis and the most unemployed.
written. ‒ i support this document because it correctly identifies the areas and problems that are holding back the development of a genuine 'blue economy'. the idea of a 'blue economy' covers a wide range of economic sectors related to the sea and oceans, from traditional or established to emerging ones. the most important of these are fisheries, aquaculture, maritime and river transport, ports and logistics, tourism and leisure and cruising, shipbuilding and ship repair, maritime works and coastal protection, exploration and exploitation of mineral resources in the sea, exploitation of offshore wind and marine energy, and biotechnology. all these areas need to work together in synergy to fully exploit the economic potential of the 'blue economy'. i believe that the blue economy should have a specific and comprehensive definition that would cover all sectoral and cross-sectoral activities related to oceans, seas, coastal ecosystems, associated hinterland and coastal areas.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the european parliament's motion for a resolution on harnessing the potential of research and innovation in the blue economy to create jobs and growth, because the blue economy is of particular importance for all eu member states, and especially for countries like croatia. the blue economy encompasses a range of sectors that together can make a significant contribution to eu growth on a global scale: fisheries, aquaculture, port development, transport and many others. i would also like to draw attention to the importance of tourism for the overall economy of the european union, but in particular to the importance of shipbuilding. the shipyards have a great potential which needs to be supported by the european commission, the member states and regional and local authorities through concrete investments and through the exploitation of research and innovation. i therefore believe that the 'ship' can fully become a european product that will be competitive and recognisable on the world market. the blue economy, however, should pay particular attention to the conservation of the marine ecosystem and environment.
written. ‒ the sea has always been one of the main sources of livelihood for people living on the coast, whether it be fishing, tourism, shipbuilding or even the sea as a source of energy. the human relationship with the sea has changed dramatically in the last 50 years - adapted to the needs of present generations, with little thought for the well-being of future ones. the concept of the blue economy focuses on sustainable economic activities that meet the needs of current and future generations and create prosperity for society. it does not limit the full potential of the seas and oceans, but rather gives priority to knowledge and innovation aimed at preserving ecosystems. the commission should also be able to provide the member states with the necessary information to enable them to assess the impact of the measures taken on the environment and the environment in the light of the objectives of the union's climate action and energy policy. i supported the report of the representative ferreira. i come from a country that is part of the strategy for the adriatic and ionian region, whose primary objective is to steer the entire region towards a future of sustainable economic and social prosperity. i think that these strategies are a great way to create jobs, to develop entrepreneurship and to revitalize small communities.
written. the commission communication 'innovation in the blue economy' underlines the importance of innovation in all sectors of the blue economy in order to create jobs and stimulate economic growth. the concept of the blue economy covers a wide range of economic activities related to the seas and oceans, such as fishing, maritime and river transport, tourism and recreational boating and cruising, shipbuilding and repair, maritime works and coastal protection, exploration and exploitation of energy sources, and others. the development of the blue economy implies the continuous integration of new scientific knowledge and the development of innovation and can therefore also provide a strong impetus for economic development and job creation, in particular in coastal and island regions and in regions heavily dependent on fisheries. this report is based on the conviction that the proper development of the blue economy requires the development of appropriate occupations linked to it and the creation of quality jobs. the commission notes that the commission has not provided any evidence that the measures in question are imputable to the state. given the importance of the report, both for job creation and for the sustainable use of marine resources, i voted in favour of its adoption.
written. ‒ i support the report on harnessing the potential of research and innovation in the blue economy, primarily to create jobs and growth. the shift from ships as the main means of transporting passengers and goods to air transport should lead to better management of our marine, oceanic and coastal resources. the concept of the blue economy covers a wide range of economic sectors related to seas and oceans, including fisheries, aquaculture, maritime and inland waterway transport, ports, tourism, sailing and cruising, shipbuilding and vessel repair, maritime works and coast guard, mineral and energy resources and biotechnology. as the report itself notes, a better understanding of the seas and oceans and marine life, as well as the implementation of environmental impact assessments, is needed. the report notes that land-based models that will consume resources quickly do not need to be repeated, and that the sustainable development of the blue economy requires more transparent access to data and research projects, as well as education and training.
written. i support the conclusion of the protocol on the exploitation of the potential of research and innovation in the blue economy for job creation and growth. the concept of the blue economy encompasses a wide range of economic sectors related to the seas and oceans, ranging from traditional to emerging sectors, including fisheries, aquaculture, maritime transport and tourism, sailing and cruising, shipbuilding, and many other occupations. i believe that the sustainable development of the blue economy could provide a strong stimulus to growth and economic development and job creation in the member states, especially in coastal regions and island countries. i agree that it would also have a positive impact on the unemployment problem, which croatia, for example, is struggling with, with as much as 17.5% according to the latest surveys from april 2015. i also agree that innovation and sustainability should be the key pillars of the blue economy to create growth and jobs, thereby meeting the needs of current and future generations of society. it is also important to note that tourism represents 5% of eu gdp, while in croatia it is 14%, making it by far the most lucrative activity, especially in the coastal area during the summer, which is another important factor in supporting this report. in addition, as an alternate member of the committee on fisheries, i believe that support for the development of the fisheries sector should be increased under the new common fisheries policy and that the necessary measures should be taken to strengthen the role of the fisheries development groups and to promote interterritorial cooperation.
written. ‒ throughout history, the sea has always been a key factor in economic development, especially for mediterranean countries. today, the sea may not be a prerequisite for rapid economic development, but it still plays a big role in the economy of countries like croatia. i would stress that the 'blue economy' as a concept covers a wide range of economic sectors related to the sea and oceans. the concept includes traditional and new economic sectors such as fisheries, aquaculture, maritime transport, inland waterways, ports, tourism, biotechnology and offshore mineral and energy resources. i think that for croatia the concept of the 'blue economy' is extremely important, because it represents a direction in which innovation would be encouraged, while preserving traditional economic sectors, such as shipbuilding. one example is shipbuilding, where specialisation of production allows a sustainable and competitive operation of a shipyard with strong competition in east asia. the second sector, also important for croatia, is fisheries, which needs to be tackled by tackling undeclared and unregulated fishing and developing innovations such as the introduction of less fuel-consuming fishing vessels. the remaining opportunities in the 'blue economy' point to the need for long-term and sustainable development, which can only be achieved through education, training and further research.
written. ‒ i support this report because i believe that in constant research and innovation in science or social action lies the potential for the advancement of society and the common good, and in particular the creation of new jobs and economic growth within the european union as a whole. this potential that lies in innovation and research is also present in the 'blue economy', which is also very important for croatia, where i come from, since part of the economy is related to tourism. therefore, investment in this sector of the economy, and in particular in research and innovation, is needed to enable the whole industry and economic sector to progress. tourism is an important part of the european economy today, and i think it is important to be competitive in this area, which is why i supported the report.
written. ‒ i voted for a report that advocates strategic planning in the blue economy, direct funding methods, targeting of priorities and an action plan to boost the sector. i support the call on the commission to assess, in cooperation with the member states, the financing needs of the blue economy in order to achieve sustainable growth, development and job creation potential, focusing on fisheries-dependent regions. i therefore believe that support for the modernisation and sustainable development of the fisheries and fishery products sector, with a focus on small-scale fisheries, will be extremely beneficial. i am pleased that the important role of macro-regional strategies, such as the adriatic and ionian strategy, in responding to common challenges and exploiting common opportunities has been recognised, but also that the fact that europe's oceans and seas are very diverse and that the commission cannot apply a one-size-fits-all approach has been recognised. i believe it is very important to promote workers' rights and to guarantee safe working conditions in order to make the sector attractive to young people, while ensuring the participation of coastal and island communities in all phases of its development. i also agree with the statement that the development of this sector will be driven by a single platform with all european funds to finance activities that are accessible to citizens, which is why i supported this report.
mr president, i have endorsed this report. ms. shoydro was very well prepared. i think it is very important in the context of the fight against youth unemployment not only to talk about benefits and passive help for these people, but this report clearly says how to actively improve the entrepreneurial capacity of young people and thus take care of themselves. i think it's important to have this active, positive attitude. i welcome the report and see some important aspects in it towards the commission, such as the call for the future of the erasmus, erasmus+ programmes to be more focused on the entrepreneurial capacity of young people, on the development of entrepreneurial skills, and i also see it as important that the report clearly states that we should break down the boundaries for young people within the individual countries of europe and enable them to do business anywhere in europe. it's important, and i think it can help reduce their unemployment.
mr president, i supported this report because youth entrepreneurship should be an important part of the political strategy to help the younger generation, which is facing high unemployment and the impossibility of professional development. the problem of youth unemployment generates much larger problems such as increased poverty and social exclusion. there is also a huge gap between education and training and opportunity and opportunity in the labour market, which is considered to be one of the main causes of youth unemployment. so we need to nurture the key skills in young people. initiative and entrepreneurship are key if young people want to participate in today's economic moment. all levels of education should help to develop practical entrepreneurial skills and motivate young people to develop a sense of initiative and a sense of social responsibility. the commission shall be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 290 concerning the establishment of a european network of national experts in the field of public procurement.
mr president, encouraging young people to be entrepreneurs through changes in the education and training system is extremely important, especially at a time when in europe some member states have unemployment rates of over 50%, or one in two young people out of work. young people are witnessing the continuation of various forms of education, acquiring new knowledge and skills, but still being unemployed. this appropriation is intended to cover the financing of the european schools in the member states and the european schools in the union. the entrepreneurial spirit and positive atmosphere towards entrepreneurship is built from an early age. therefore, special programs must be introduced in kindergartens, primary and secondary schools, and then in colleges. in colleges, of course, through entrepreneurial incubators, we need to help young people realize their ideas and start businesses.
written. ‒ i support the report by my colleague on promoting youth entrepreneurship through education and training. i think the report is much better balanced than the first draft of the report, and the amendments have emphasised that education and training of young people can only succeed by adding the competences - the skills, behaviours and knowledge needed to use the skills. most importantly, youth entrepreneurship must become part of the strategy to support today's generation of youth for employment.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the european parliament's motion for a resolution on promoting entrepreneurship among young people through education and training, because i believe that investing in education and young people is an investment for the growth and progress of the european union, and entrepreneurship has a significant role to play in this. we are aware that lifelong learning and development are inevitable and that they are achieved by increasing the quality of education and training, strengthening social cohesion, encouraging mobility, creativity and innovation. in this context, it has been shown that entrepreneurship has a huge potential to increase young people's professional ambitions, their creative thinking and their propensity to work effectively. therefore, i strongly support the promotion of entrepreneurial skills of young people through the education system to foster employment and growth.
written. ‒ i consider this report to be a good basis for a detailed analysis of the current situation of youth employment. the number of unemployed young people decreased by 494 000 between february 2014 and february 2015. unfortunately, there are still a number of unemployed young people. the commission has not received any comments from interested parties. i agree that this reduction is too slow and i believe that, as this report has said, additional efforts must be made to ensure that the number of young unemployed continues to decline rapidly in the coming period. i have already spoken on several occasions in this parliament about the need for the council and the commission, within their respective competences, to develop methodological support and tools in the field of entrepreneurship education for national education systems, which could be used by these systems as appropriate. this may help member states to improve their education systems as well as to target them towards the creation of labour-market shortages today or in the near future, as well as to do so as quickly as possible and on the basis of best practices.
written. ‒ youth entrepreneurship is an important part of a policy strategy aimed at supporting today's young generation in the context of europe's efforts to ensure growth, employment, education and social inclusion. in february 2015, 4.85 million young people were unemployed in the 28 eu member states, an unacceptably high figure. the commission should also be able to assess the impact of the measures taken on the employment situation in the union. therefore, i support the rapporteur's proposal concerning the measures that need to be implemented by the european union institutions, but also by the member states, to encourage entrepreneurship among young people, given that in certain countries start-ups are not adequately recognised or understood as possible career paths and that the support provided within the education system to future entrepreneurs is insufficient. small and medium-sized enterprises generate 44% of croatian gdp, employ more than 900 000 workers and participate in more than 40% of direct exports. the national plan for youth of the republic of croatia 2009-2013 states that current research insights in the world and in croatia show that the transition of young people into the so-called adult world is increasingly complex and long-lasting. the union must provide additional support in this respect.
written. as a representative from the republic of croatia, i consider the issue of youth unemployment to be extremely important. the commission shall be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 26 to supplement this regulation by laying down detailed rules for the application of this regulation. in the republic of croatia, the data are even more defeating. according to the latest statistics published by eurostat, the youth unemployment rate in the republic of croatia in july 2015 was 43,1%, which is a truly devastating figure compared to other member states. i support this report which points to the gap between the education system and the labour market which is causing a large number of unfilled jobs, both in the republic of croatia and in other eu countries. young people should be taught the key competences that are really needed in the market. since enterprises, and in particular smes, are the backbone of the eu economy and as such rank at the top of eu policy priorities, there is a need to promote entrepreneurial skills for young people through legislative measures that will thereby encourage their employability and break down the barriers faced by young entrepreneurs.
written. ‒ i support this report because we are in the aftermath of the economic crisis which has resulted in high youth unemployment, and it is very important to support entrepreneurship and private sector growth, especially among young people. it is important that young people are entrepreneurial and want to do it, because it has economic growth, employment growth and many other benefits, both for young people and for society as a whole, at local and european level. the commission should also be able to provide information on the impact of the measures taken on the environment and the environment protection, including on the impact of the measures taken on the environment and the environment protection. the development of entrepreneurship ultimately manifests itself in the improvement of the quality of both the business and private lives of a large number of people, and i therefore support the report.
written. ‒ while this report ostensibly promotes the economic and social values of entrepreneurship education and highlights the benefits that would be gained by including this aspect of education at all levels, it does interfere with the competence of the member states and prescribes guidelines for them to achieve these values. in particular, given that the european union has limited competence in the field of education policy, i consider that the call for member states to change the curriculum is an inappropriate attack on the principles of subsidiarity and proportionality. the report also calls on the commission to promote reforms of education policy in the member states and to monitor measures taken to support young entrepreneurship, which is also outside the european union's remit. i believe that this report is more about setting out for the member states what they have to do in this area than promoting entrepreneurship among young people through education and training, and it does not take into account the fact that each country has a different education system and the conditions under which young people can start their own businesses. for these reasons, i voted against.
mr president, this is a slightly different subject, but i supported this report because the fact is that we are aware that there is no integrated approach to cultural heritage, and we know that the european union has funds for cultural heritage that are available through the creative europe programmes, horizon 2020, through the european regional fund and others. the commission will continue to support the development of the european cultural heritage area, in particular through the european cultural heritage network, which will provide a platform for the exchange of information and best practices on cultural heritage. the documents of all actions and events, as well as all information on the development of cultural heritage conservation policy, would facilitate the possibility of cooperation of all stakeholders. i am pointing this out because i myself come from a city, the city of dubrovnik, which is known for its historic buildings, for its rich cultural heritage, and this is perhaps an opportunity to mention that dubrovnik is this year's candidate for the european (the president took the floor of the meps.)
mr president, i am pleased that today the report on a holistic approach to cultural heritage has been supported, which definitely has a strong economic role in addition to its historical role and its role in preserving the traditions and identity of the european peoples, and which helps to strengthen tourism, craft and small and medium-sized enterprises. many cultural treasures across europe are waiting to be restored and opened to the public. in croatia, huge cultural values such as the salone, the fortresses of šibenik, the castles in zagorje can become an important element of economic development and job creation through restoration. european funds may be combined and invested in projects for the restoration and development of cultural heritage. as shadow rapporteur for this report in the committee on regional development, i asked the commission to encourage member states to invest eu funds in cultural goods and in education and skills development, as well as in promoting and encouraging entrepreneurship in culture and innovation.
written. ‒ i support the report on a holistic approach to cultural heritage in europe, which aims to highlight the underestimated role of european cultural heritage as a source of social innovation for smart and sustainable growth, addressing challenges such as lack of financial resources, technological change and globalisation, tourism inflows, trade in cultural goods, etc. i believe that we all need to work together to raise awareness and education about the value of europe's cultural heritage and its protection. the importance of education and research, the development of quality traineeships, support for mobility, the preservation of traditional skills and crafts are some of the measures that can effectively address the preservation of europe's cultural heritage and the understanding of its importance for the lives of our citizens.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the european parliament's motion for a resolution: towards a holistic approach to cultural heritage in europe, because it is of the utmost importance to protect in the best possible way the inestimable value of the tangible and intangible cultural heritage of the european union. in this context, it is necessary to ensure more efficient and effective european programmes and funds in order to preserve and exploit europe's cultural heritage in a sustainable way. access to such funds is often overcomplicated and complex and it is therefore in the common interest to simplify such procedures for the benefit of end-users and competent institutions. it is also important to pay the necessary attention to the digitisation of cultural heritage and to enable the training, upskilling and mobility of people working professionally in the cultural sector. cultural heritage represents a great potential for regional development and tourism, and i am therefore in favour of launching an initiative to award an annual 'culture region'.
written. ‒ while in france, the united kingdom and austria, for example, the cultural heritage sector contributes billions of euros to society, in some member states the cultural sector is seen as an unnecessary expenditure of too much money without a significant impact. this is a short-sighted policy that fails to recognise the potential of individual castles, curia, fortresses, churches, etc., whose restoration would have an impact on increasing tourist arrivals and thus on regional development, job creation, but also the preservation of traditional crafts and the promotion of the local cuisine of the area and, of course, rural development. the commission should also be able to provide information on the implementation of the union's policy on cultural heritage, in particular on the implementation of the union's policy on cultural heritage in the context of the union's cultural heritage policy.
written. ‒ as the cradle of modern western civilization, the countries of the european union have inherited an exceptional cultural heritage which, while unique, is deeply interwoven and holds a huge potential which is still only sporadically used. no heritage is or should be for sale, without shying away from the prudent use of its economic potential. only living heritage that we actively and sustainably pass on is a heritage that will not be forgotten and that has a future. i strongly support the report which advocates a comprehensive approach to european cultural heritage, in particular in terms of creating a single portal for cultural heritage which should facilitate access to information on funding opportunities from the common funds, facilitate the finding of partners, but also open up space for the promotion of projects in the field of culture. the project 'the best in heritage' implemented by the croatian 'european heritage association' to promote the best european projects in the field of heritage can serve as an example of good practice that can only benefit from the practical implementation of the proposed integrated approach.
written. ‒ i support the report because europe's cultural heritage is one of the largest and most important in the world and of outstanding importance to world civilization. it should therefore be preserved for future generations and should also be high on the list of priorities for europeans. in order to ensure the high quality of european cultural heritage and to preserve and develop it in the best possible way, an integrated approach to its european cultural heritage is needed. of course, this approach must be the same for all member states in order to care for cultural heritage in an equal and balanced way. this appropriation is intended to cover the financing of the purchase, hire, maintenance and repair of equipment and installations, as well as the purchase, hire and maintenance of equipment and installations for the construction, maintenance, repair and operation of the railway network and the supply of railway infrastructure. the aim of the project is to develop a comprehensive and integrated approach to the promotion of cultural heritage in the european union, in particular through the promotion of cultural heritage in the context of the european year of cultural heritage.
written. ‒ the report emphasises in a good and balanced way that the protection of cultural heritage is primarily a matter for national, regional and local authorities and that in this respect the european union must respect the principle of subsidiarity. however, it is clearly stated that the aim is to review the available information on the economic and social impacts of cultural heritage and to explore the challenges and opportunities in this sector. i strongly support the presentation of tools available at eu level, which complement national and regional programmes, in order to protect cultural heritage values and enhance their contribution to economic growth and job creation. i believe that the principle of union added value positively strengthens the cooperation policies at different levels in this area as well as the projects developed with the aim of supporting new models of cultural heritage management.
mr president, when the european commission declared 2013 the european year of citizens, it confirmed the democratic potential of the european parliament, the only directly elected body of the european union. it also recognises the importance of communication between citizens and institutions. a move away from the practice of simply letting the institutions' decisions be made public was announced, and citizens were put at the very centre of the european union's political agenda. it was therefore desirable to further strengthen the awareness of the citizens of the european union of their membership of the community, of their rights but also of their obligations, and of the influence they must retain on their daily lives. that is why citizens have taken the european citizens' initiative seriously. the european public has taken the opportunity to direct the commission with its million signatures to propose legislation within its remit, and today we decided on the first such democratic step. the human right to access to clean water is being defended today in the european parliament as is the right of the public to alert high politics to the vile passions of those who would turn the unique commodities of life - water, fertile soil, hydrocarbons - into increasingly scarce resources. i have supported and will continue to support such initiatives.
mr president, this initiative is a very successful european citizens' initiative which generated great public interest across the member states with an impressive number of more than 1 600 000 signatures, and later the number of signatures continued to reach almost 1,9 million and almost 2 million respectively. however, i abstained from voting on this initiative and i regret that within this excellent initiative there have been, as i personally acknowledge and as my club of the european people's party acknowledges, unnecessary and inappropriate ideological guidelines. i'm in favor of subsidiarity, i'm in favor of member states deciding on water as a resource that should remain a public good, and i agree with that. there are a number of details in the report that we disagree with, because it's a delicate resource, which, among other things, is owned by a few countries, and my country, croatia, or our country, croatia, is even third in terms of water. so i am for water as a human right, but in a way that member states still have the right to decide.
mr. president, i consider the right to water citizens' initiative to be extremely important not because it is the first citizen initiative of its kind, but because it draws attention to water as a public good, but also to water as a human right. it is the duty of the member states to protect water sources from privatisation and pollution. and also make sure that water, drinking water, is available to all of our citizens. i think that this initiative has succeeded in reaching those basic segments that i have advocated in my personal and political life, and i have therefore supported this report. i also think it is important that it is recognised that special attention should be given to low-income populations, to those living in rural areas and to underdeveloped regions. water must not be allowed to become a source of wealth or illegal profit for state or private service providers. there is an urgent need to address water pollution and to provide citizens with an insight into water quality. from an environmental perspective, good water management will become a priority in the coming decades, as water is important for economic development, energy stability and agricultural production, and without water there is no life.
‒ the commission published an official response in april 2014 that only partially met the requests of the initiators and signatories of the initiative. the commission agreed that water management should, as a rule, be the responsibility of the local authorities closest to the citizens, that water is not a marketable product and that water and sanitation should be excluded from the concession directive. while these are positive steps, the commission has avoided committing to propose legislation that would label access to drinking water as a human right and has not given guarantees that the right to water and related services will be protected from further liberalisation and trade agreements such as ttip. i therefore support this report and hope that the commission's handling of this citizens' initiative will not diminish the potential of this tool of eu democracy.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the european parliament resolution on the monitoring of the european citizens' initiative right2water, because access to water is a fundamental human right for which there should be no exception, and i am therefore opposed to the privatisation of water supply systems. water supply and sanitation services have a direct impact on eco-social assets and contribute directly to various segments of daily life, such as agriculture and food, and are of course a prerequisite for human well-being. the governance of water policy should be based on active citizen participation and full transparency in order to ensure universal access to water and the raising of health and hygiene standards at all levels. in this context, i would like to mention the example of istria, whose public water supply system meets the needs of citizens and their right to water, and this has been achieved primarily thanks to the solidarity of citizens and the local and regional public sector.
written. ‒ right2water is the first and most successful european citizens' initiative, and a great example of participatory democracy. the initiative, under the slogans 'water is a public good, not a commodity' and 'water and sanitation are a human right', has achieved 1.6 million verified signatures from all member states, a major achievement. i think it is necessary to recall the central objectives of the initiative, which is that the eu institutions and the member states have a duty to ensure that all residents have the right to water and sanitation. water supply and management should not be subject to market rules, water services must be excluded from liberalisation and the eu should step up its efforts to achieve universal access to water. unfortunately, despite the initiative's request, the commission did not give guarantees to prevent further liberalisation of water and sanitation services and exclusion of water from trade agreements, which disappointed the initiative's organisers. on the other hand, i would welcome the commission's start to recognise and accept public-private partnerships. the commission has also examined the possibility of a public-private partnership between the public utilities and the private sector in the member states.
written. ‒ i voted in abstention, although i welcome the first successful initiative by the european citizens initiative (eci) - right2water. i share their view that access to leads is a human right. the commission notes that the measure is not imputable to the state, but to the state as the owner of the concession.
written. ‒ right2water is the first european citizens' initiative to have met all the formal requirements and to have been signed by a sufficient number of eu citizens (one million citizens from one quarter of the member states). i support the claim for the right to water as a fundamental human right and i think it would be scandalous not to respect the will of the citizens of the european union who have clearly and unequivocally expressed their position on this issue through this initiative.
mr. president, it was perfectly clear at the beginning of the crisis that greece and italy could not be alone and could not bear the weight of this crisis alone, but some people turned a blind eye. it seems to me that even today they are closing their eyes and are not aware of the fact that europe can only solve this enormous crisis together and on the basis of solidarity. and let's take what pope francis said, he called for every parish in europe to welcome at least one family. it's a good way, an indication of how we must create solidarity among us and help those who need help. i want to make one more point here. we have non-eu countries, and i'm talking about serbia and fyrom, macedonia, which are also suffering and have great problems because of refugees coming from war-torn areas. i think it is the duty of the european commission and the european union to help both serbia and fyrom in this situation.
mr president, i congratulate the rapporteurs on a well-written document and on useful recommendations for future cohesion policy action. the european structural and investment funds for the period 2014 to 2020 should help member states to boost economic activity during the recovery from the economic crisis and to stimulate employment and economic growth through support, entrepreneurship, innovation and youth employment. furthermore, under the european fund for strategic investments, newer member states should start preparing for future investment by implementing the necessary reforms, removing administrative barriers and joining energy, construction and it consortia and clusters in order to avoid the possibility that the funds from the new fund are used only by more developed countries with better quality projects and better references.
mr president, there are high expectations for cohesion policy. there are high expectations as we know in cities, but let us never forget that rural parts of europe are also part of our identity. of course, these are the cities where the vast majority of the population live, and that is why i would like to draw your attention, commissioner, to the fact that there are very high expectations of you in europe. some countries live almost entirely on cohesion policy money, or certainly the largest investments come from cohesion policy money. so there's a lot of expectation from what the commission is going to offer. and we need a new cohesion policy and we need more cohesion policies in this parliament. and of course we should talk about cohesion policy when we talk about cross-border cooperation, but i would also add when we talk about macro-regional strategies. we need a cohesion policy element here too. that way we can round off the whole thing.
madam president, commissioner crețu, cohesion policy is currently the main investment instrument of the european union. its importance is even greater when it is understood that the basic objectives are to reduce regional disparities, to strengthen economic, social and territorial cohesion between the regions of the member states and to create jobs. during the financial crisis, cohesion policy proved to be a key instrument for sustaining investment. it was one of the main sources of public investment. i thank the rapporteurs and all those who contributed to the content of the second report a set of guidelines for the continuation of the implementation of cohesion policy, burdened by payment difficulties and a late start. it is worth noting that croatia, as the youngest member of the european union, is also increasingly active and effective in drawing on the considerable resources available. the best evidence of this are the projects of the pelješac bridge and the new railway lines gradec sveti ivan žabno. it is the first railway in croatia built after 1967. 72% of our citizens live in urban areas and this railway will better connect the urban areas of the three counties, which is one of the goals of the report.
member of the commission.– mr president, firstly, i would like to congratulate the rapporteur, ms vozemberg, and the committee on women’s rights and gender equality (femm committee) for this initiative. the draft report on women’s careers in science and university and the glass ceilings encountered is a very welcome move. it reflects well the current state of play and proposes concrete ideas to move forward. let me share with you a few thoughts on it. first: institutional changes. as was rightly mentioned in the report, these are very much needed to remove institutional barriers and bias. in science, men and women may have the same qualifications, but they often do not have the same chances to succeed because of persisting discrimination and stereotypes concerning the role and capacities of women. there are still practices and attitudes that produce inequalities. institutional changes can help on the way towards assuring that research institutions guarantee equal opportunities for both women and men at all levels. to this end, in the european research area, research institutions are encouraged to adopt fully—fledged gender equality plans which include a detailed account of the state of play on gender equality within the organisation, measures to address existing bias, setting targets and monitoring of progress. with institutional changes we have moved on from women-focused programmes, which are useful initiatives but are not necessarily sustainable in the long run. institutional changes in research organisations are today the cornerstone of the commission’s strategy on gender equality in research. in horizon 2020, our framework programme for research and innovation, these institutional changes are clearly pursued, but we need to do more and we need to do better. we need all member states to engage in the same line in the context of the european research area. i am glad that the european parliament is on board as its help and its role is crucial. second: the importance of enforcing the existing regulatory framework on gender equality. this is stated at the outset of the report, and the commission fully agrees. it is not enough to have laws; we need effective implementation and enforcement. the commission monitors the correct application by member states of existing eu legislation on gender equality. in research, we also need to address the specificities of the sector with concrete actions, both at the eu and national level. in may 2015, the council adopted the european research area roadmap and called on the member states and the commission to implement top action priorities through action plans and strategies. translating national equality legislation into effective action is one key priority. the roadmap also states that gaps in cross-cutting gender equality legislation at eu and national levels should be addressed. we know that national laws, strategies and incentives have a positive impact in triggering actions by research institutions. this is important, as research institutions are the ones ultimately responsible for implementing institutional changes through gender equality plans. the council asked for appropriate indicators to monitor the progress made at national and eu level, as does the european parliament in its report. again, the commission fully agrees. the ‘she figures 2015’ leaflet was published last july, and a full report will be published in january 2016. in this endeavour, the commission would like to underline the need for a full collaboration from the member states in order to produce robust indicators. third: gender balance in decision making in research bodies and institutions. participation of women in decision making is just as important. women are still under-represented in decision making and the phenomenon is not self-correcting. in response to this, we see that many european states are choosing to set targets or quotas. in 2013, 18 states did so, compared to just 8 in 2008. there is a need to clearly call for improvement on the gender balance in decision making. before concluding, i would like to mention three important initiatives on gender equality. the first is on work-life balance. the commission has just published, in early august, a roadmap in preparation of a broad initiative to improve work-life balance and a decision for 2016. the commission will consider a mix of legislative and non-legislative instruments including a modern solution to the needs of today’s families. we will now start the consultation process. the european parliament, the member states and the social partners will have a very important role to play in this process. the second is the 2012 commission proposal for improving gender balance on boards of listed companies. the proposal is currently supported by a majority of member states, and once adopted by the parliament and the council it will pave the way for further progress on gender equality. thirdly, we also share members’ concerns on the gender pay gap, which at eu level persists at 16.4%. last year, the commission adopted a recommendation on pay transparency aiming to assist member states and other stakeholders in a more effective application of existing equal pay legislation. it provides a toolkit of concrete measures to tackle pay inequality and the gender pay gap. we look forward to receiving, by the end of this year, member states’ notifications on the national measures taken in accordance with the recommendation. we will then assess the need for possible further measures. in conclusion, both women and men are needed if europe is to achieve its ambitions in r&i for the benefit of the whole of society. the commission will continue to do its part, but to achieve gender equality the commitment of the european parliament in terms of the policy and financial engagement of the member states remains essential. the commission will take good note of all the recommendations made in the report.
mr. president, this report is designed to completely change the face of family and society, and i will not support it. behind the catchy title that gives the impression that this report is about improving girls' access to education, there is actually a skillfully packaged imposition of gender ideology in all schools in the member states of the european union. the report goes so far as to prescribe the content of the curriculum for the member states, emphasising that sex education should include a gender perspective, although it is common knowledge that education is their exclusive competence. this report violates numerous international conventions that guarantee the right of parents to be the primary educators of their children. the report is a direct attack on the right of parents and their children to respect for private and family life, as well as an attack on teachers who are restricted in their freedom of conscience. this report has nothing to do with education, it aims to change the whole structure of the family in our society and that's why i won't support it.
written. the moment of truth has come! - a short but clear phrase used by juncker during his state of the union address, and it clearly shows the need for more europe and deeper relations in europe. we need more cooperation between the european institutions, the member states and all actors to ensure that synergies between all produce more efficient and better results. we need a strong joint diplomatic offensive in the middle east and north africa to address the migrant crisis where it arises. the commission will continue to monitor the situation in the western balkans and to provide the countries with a clear european perspective. however, the migrant and refugee crisis will sooner or later diminish or end, but there is still a high number of unemployed and we need to strengthen our european economy. the juncker fund can and must play an important role in this in order to drive european development. that will ultimately be the success or failure of this commission.
written. europe is in crisis, a crisis that affects all the member states of the european union to a greater or lesser extent. in addition to the economic and financial crisis and the escalating wars in its neighbourhood, europe is currently facing the worst migrant crisis in its history. the speech by the president of the european commission, mr juncker, marked a week in which europe has shown its readiness to respond and show solidarity. the refugee crisis is a priority for the european union because it is a test of our humanity. however, there is a need to distinguish between economic migrants and war migrants. to say that all migrants are economic is wrong and is consistent with populist politics that cannot be supported in europe. however, opening the eu to everyone is also not the right thing to do. europe, unfortunately, still does not have a strong enough foreign policy as the other great powers of the world. even in solidarity, we must not forget other important issues to which the union is obliged to pay attention. the juncker plan should be seen as an economic recovery plan that will benefit everyone, both the eu population and the war refugees who need our protection. the member states of the european union need to stick together, because only then can the union show the necessary solidarity and remain strong in these times of crisis.
written. there is no doubt that the european union, 60 years after its foundation, needs an adequate response to the crisis in which the most important project in the continent's history has found itself. the focus of these discussions must be on the basis of the current state of affairs; the eu is still a community of states, not a common state. today we see how mass movements and demands for the democratization of authoritarian regimes in north africa and the middle east have been, for the most part, the prelude to new and renewed conflicts. worse, events in many of the countries of this vast region have added to the list of so-called failed states. the persecuted people, the refugees, are becoming increasingly unwelcome in many european circles, and their rights are becoming increasingly scarce. the war in ukraine has become, without a doubt, a turning point in the european security system. in the event of further deterioration of the economic and security situation in ukraine, a wave of refugees from eastern europe can be expected. but the good functioning of multilateral organisations such as the eu is not possible without respecting the multicultural concept in the societies of the member countries, without introducing new models of integration of all traditional and new minority communities. the commission's proposal for a regulation on the european union's external borders, which is to be adopted by the council on 1 january 2014, is a very important step towards the creation of a european union external borders policy. that is why i support the view that in today's union there is more europe missing, and more union in this europe.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the proposal to change the name of the delegation for relations with the palestinian legislative council to the delegation for relations with palestine, because i support the process and the endeavour of creating a palestinian state. i am reliving the decision we made to change the name as part of that process and a continuation of earlier decisions made in the european parliament. it is well known that i am convinced that a two-state solution, israel and palestine, which will have good neighbourly relations and relations based on lasting peace, is something that i wholeheartedly support.
written. ‒ the current state of conflict between the democratic state of israel and the palestinian authority, as well as the internal divisions we are witnessing in the palestinian-administered territories and the lack of full democracy and the rule of law, are the main reasons for the european union's inability to recognize palestine as a state at this time. it is the responsibility of the palestinian authority to achieve appropriate standards in a manner that isolates influences that deny democratic principles in the area. successful peace negotiations between israel and the palestinian authority are a prerequisite for the establishment of two states for two peoples. for this reason, i do not support the renaming of the delegation for relations with the palestinian legislative council to the delegation for relations with palestine until the expected and necessary steps towards peace and the democratization of society under palestinian rule are taken.
written. ‒ i support this proposed change as another of the european parliament's efforts to contribute to the solution of the palestinian question.
written. ‒ this explanation of the vote arises as a criticism of the existing system of evaluating the work of meps in the european parliament solely on the basis of the statistical number of parliamentary activities promoted in croatia, which does not actually reflect the actual quality and quantity of work, efficiency and above all the success of the representative action.
written. ‒ in the light of previous agreements with the palestinian delegation, some groups within parliament considered it appropriate to propose a change of name to the palestinian legislative affairs council. i consider such a move to be one-sided and hasty. the foreign affairs committee of the european people's party did not have enough time to discuss the possible consequences of this decision in the dynamic world of foreign relations and interaction between states. given the fragility of the situation in the middle east, i think it's best not to make any hasty decisions. i do not accept this initiative and hope that in the future such initiatives will be made with the prior agreement of all the committees relevant to monitoring the situation.
written. - i voted against this motion for several reasons. of the 28 member states of the european union, only 9 currently recognize the state of palestine. given that the middle east peace process is one of the union's priorities, any move that could adversely affect that process should be avoided. a change in name could destabilize an already extremely difficult and complicated situation, and destabilize israel in its attempts at reconciliation. it also might inadvertently give legitimacy to the hamas terrorist organization, which holds the gaza strip. i therefore consider the eu to have a crucial role to play in further promoting and advocating for the peace process and for reconciliation within palestine.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the draft legislative resolution of the european parliament on the draft council decision on the conclusion of the protocol setting out the fishing opportunities and financial contribution provided for in the fisheries partnership agreement between the european community and the republic of guinea-bissau, as it gives its consent to the conclusion of the protocol promoting the authentic sustainable development of the fisheries of the republic of guinea-bissau, with an additional assessment of natural resources. however, more reliable catch data and protection of fisheries resources are needed to preserve biodiversity, to improve the fisheries-related sectors of the economy and to enhance the traditional and other fishing practices of the local population. i also believe that the signing of such international instruments must always take account of the interests of the european union, but also of the third countries with which they are signed, taking into account the local population.
written. ‒ the republic of guinea-bissau, on the west coast of africa, is considered one of the least developed countries in the world. however, its coast is rich in fishery resources and i therefore supported the recommendation of mr ferreire as the agreement is an important tool to strengthen the economic stability of guinea-bissau, reduce the need for international assistance and strengthen the fishing industry. the first fisheries agreement between the european economic community and guinea-bissau was signed in 1980, so member states have had access to their waters since then. the protocols for the implementation of the agreement were in force until june 2012 and a new fisheries agreement was signed in november 2014. the financial assistance provided by the eu amounts to eur 9,2 million per year and the main objectives of the agreement are to: provide fishing opportunities for eu vessels in guinea-bissau waters within the permitted limits and to enhance cooperation as a basis for the development of a sustainable fisheries policy and the exploitation of fishery resources in the guinea-bissau fishing zone.
written. ‒ the fisheries partnership agreement between the european union and the republic of guinea-bissau sets out fishing opportunities and provides for a financial contribution to the republic of guinea-bissau. the importance of this protocol derives from the benefits it confers on the fleets of guinea-bissau and the fleets of the european union operating in guinea-bissau's waters. the protocol can have a positive impact on improving the quality and accuracy of data on all catches and on the conservation status of fishery resources in the territory of the republic of guinea-bissau, as well as on the capacity of the republic of guinea-bissau to develop its own capacities to obtain these important data. in view of the importance of the protocol for the development of the fisheries policy of the republic of guinea-bissau and its impact on the protection of fishery resources in the area, i support this agreement.
written. ‒ although the first agreement between guinea-bissau and the european union was signed 35 years ago, the results of the conventional cooperation have largely been lacking. given that guinea-bissau is one of the poorest areas in the world, with the lowest gdp per capita and one of the highest levels of indebtedness, but also with exceptional fish stocks, i support this recommendation for a draft council decision on the conclusion of the protocol setting out the fishing opportunities and financial contribution provided for in the fisheries partnership agreement between the european union and the republic of guinea-bissau. i also support the provision in this agreement that eur 3 million will be invested in the development of guinea-bissau's fishing sector in order to exploit the fisheries potential they have in abundance as efficiently as possible and to use it for the sustainable development of the country.
written. i agree with the recommendations of my colleague, mr ferreira, on the new fisheries partnership agreement with the republic of guinea-bissau. such a protocol is important for both parties, both for the european union and for the republic of guinea-bissau, for a number of reasons. guinea-bissau is one of the least developed countries in the world, with a population of 1.4 million, the majority of whom live and work in rural areas. the agreement with the european union will certainly contribute to the development of the economy of the republic of guinea-bissau by a financial contribution of eur 9,2 million per year over a period of 3 years. the european union will, on the other hand, gain access to the fishing zone of the republic of guinea-bissau, which will certainly benefit both parties. i also support the recommendations of the rapporteur on the conduct of a more detailed assessment of this agreement as well as its effects in the future.
written. ‒ this explanation of the vote arises as a criticism of the existing system of evaluating the work of meps in the european parliament solely on the basis of the statistical number of parliamentary activities promoted in croatia, which does not actually reflect the actual quality and quantity of work, efficiency and above all the success of the representative action.
written. ‒ i support this report because the protocol to supplement the fisheries partnership agreement between europe and guinea-bissau is as beneficial to both parties as the agreement itself. the european union has also benefited from this agreement for 35 years and should continue to do so in the future. it is important for europe that these contracts allow it to continue fishing in the territorial waters of guinea-bissau and thus continue to supply its population with quality seafood. it is also good that this way good relations are created between two countries and two continents and that both actors develop economically in this way.
written. ‒ i support this report, whose protocol allows fishing within the maritime borders of the republic of guinea-bissau, thus ensuring access to the republic's surplus fishing potential for european vessels. the protocol also emphasises the institutional approach to fisheries, i.e. the up-to-date and timely monitoring of data on the quantities and numbers of fish caught, which will strengthen the administrative capacity of guinea-bissau in addition to regulating catches and increase financial prosperity for both parties, which is why i consider it mutually beneficial. the protocol is useful, beyond the financial and administrative side, to strengthen the electronic and technical capabilities of the contracting parties and to improve the technology needed for scientific research in this agricultural sector as set out in articles 3, 4, 5 and 6. the report also covers the legal aspects of regulating interaction with the government, i.e. the ministry of fisheries of the republic of guinea-bissau.
written. ‒ a new protocol granting fishing opportunities to eu member states in guinea-bissau waters was due to be signed in 2012, but the eu suspended the protocol because of the coup d'état in that country, considering that the safety of its fishermen in the area was not guaranteed. the commission has also been asked to provide information on the implementation of the new protocol to the fisheries agreement with the european union. the protocol does not take account of changes in fish stocks or of the difficulties faced by fishermen in guinea-bissau. although the waters of guinea-bissau are rich in many valuable species such as shrimp, algae, tuna and octopus and the implementation of this agreement would be a major boost to fisheries, the country itself abstained due to the lack of data preparation.
‒ voted in favour of the proposal for a european parliament non-legislative resolution on the draft council decision on the conclusion of the protocol setting out the fishing opportunities and financial contribution provided for in the fisheries partnership agreement between the european community and the republic of guinea-bissau, as the protocol, in addition to strengthening cooperation in the field of fisheries and fisheries policy, contributes to the socioeconomic development of the republic of guinea-bissau. this allows the european union fleets to access mixed fisheries and the financial resources available to the republic of guinea-bissau have a significant impact on its budget. however, greater accountability and transparency are needed to overcome the unsatisfactory results in the area of sectoral cooperation. in addition, i also support the prevention of illegal fishing and the promotion of sustainable development of fisheries policy, with a strong focus on the conservation of fisheries resources.
written. ‒ the first fisheries agreement between the eez and guinea-bissau was concluded in 1980, and until june 2012 the fleets of the eez member states had access to fishing opportunities in the waters. the new protocol implementing the fisheries agreement between guinea-bissau and the eu was signed on 24 november 2014 for a period of 3 years. this agreement promotes the genuinely sustainable development of the guinea-bissau fisheries sector, in particular local industries, but also underlines the need to establish better links between the sectoral support provided under the fisheries agreement and the instruments available under development cooperation, in particular the european development fund. this is also one of the few fisheries agreements of the european union that allows it access to mixed fisheries. the protocol provides for the possibility of employing local seafarers on board eu vessels. i supported the report by mr ferreira, as the european union should do everything in its power to ensure that sustainable fisheries agreements with third countries are in the interest of both parties.
written. ‒ the fisheries partnership agreement between the european union and the republic of guinea-bissau sets out fishing opportunities and provides for a financial contribution to the republic of guinea-bissau. such a protocol, which aims to strengthen cooperation between the european union and the republic of guinea-bissau in the fisheries sector, is in the interest of both countries as it establishes a framework for the implementation of a sustainable and long-term fisheries policy. it also places great emphasis on the responsible and sustainable exploitation of fisheries resources and provides for the possibility of technical assistance needed by the republic of guinea-bissau, including, inter alia, institutional capacity building, training of fisheries experts, partnership with small-scale fisheries, and a stronger focus on policies that recognise the important role of women in fisheries. in view of the benefits of the agreement, both for the republic of guinea-bissau and for the european union, and in view of the broader framework encompassed by the agreement, which allows the development of the republic of guinea-bissau's fishing and institutional capacities, i support the agreement and have voted in favour of its implementation.
written. ‒ although the first agreement between guinea-bissau and the european union was signed 35 years ago, the results of the conventional cooperation have largely been lacking. as guinea-bissau is one of the poorest areas in the world, with the lowest gdp per capita and one of the highest levels of indebtedness, but also with exceptional fish stocks, i support this report containing the motion for a non-legislative resolution on the draft council decision on the conclusion of the protocol setting out the fishing opportunities and financial contribution provided for in the fisheries partnership agreement between the european community and the republic of guinea-bissau. i also support the provision in this report that, in addition to the eur 6.2 million for the transfer of fisheries resources, eur 3 million will be invested in the development of guinea-bissau's fishing sector in order to exploit the fisheries potential that it has in abundance as efficiently as possible and to use it for the sustainable development of the country.
written. although the first fisheries partnership agreement with the republic of guinea-bissau was signed 35 years ago, the results achieved are not satisfactory. the new protocol, signed on 24 november 2014, provides more opportunities and prospects for developing eu-guinea-bissau relations. the eu has a strong interest in this agreement because it is currently one of the few that allows access to mixed fisheries and because of the impossibility of aligning the sanitary standards of the republic of guinea-bissau with the eu, this potential has not been exploited. the eu has made efforts in july 2014 to establish a sanitary laboratory in the territory of guinea-bissau, which will certainly contribute to increasing capacities there and ultimately to mutual benefit. the new protocol referred to above provides for a total of eur 9,2 million of support on an annual basis. in view of the above, i agree with my fellow rapporteur, mr ferreira, and support his recommendation that there should be better coordination between this support and the instruments available as part of development cooperation, i.e. the european development fund.
written. ‒ this explanation of the vote arises as a criticism of the existing system of evaluating the work of meps in the european parliament solely on the basis of the statistical number of parliamentary activities promoted in croatia, which does not actually reflect the actual quality and quantity of work, efficiency and above all the success of the representative action.
written. ‒ i support this report because the protocol to supplement the fisheries partnership agreement between europe and guinea-bissau is as beneficial to both parties as the agreement itself. the european union has also benefited from this agreement for 35 years and should continue to do so in the future. it is important for europe that these contracts allow it to continue fishing in the territorial waters of guinea-bissau and thus continue to supply its population with quality seafood. it is also good that this way good relations are created between two countries and two continents and that both actors develop economically in this way.
written. ‒ the report focuses on assistance and appropriate training for guinea-bissau fishermen and strengthening institutional capacity and sectoral policies, equalising access to this agricultural branch for both sexes and preventing illegal and unauthorised fishing within certain limits. i support this report because it is extremely important if we are to cooperate with the government of guinea-bissau. the report notes that it is important to give the government of the republic of guinea-bissau a certain degree of autonomy in collecting the necessary data to monitor fishing activities throughout the year, thereby encouraging the appropriate institutions to work better and increasing the share of the working population in the fisheries sector.
written. ‒ the extension of the fisheries partnership agreement between the european community and the republic of guinea-bissau allows eu licensed members, namely spain, greece, portugal and italy, to fish in their waters, with an emphasis on the need to address the fisheries challenges facing the country. the commission has also received information from the guinea-bissau authorities indicating that the fishing activities of the vessels concerned are not in line with the relevant union legislation. although problems have been identified, it is clear that the agreement has not been sufficiently updated since 2012 to reflect changes in the fisheries fund and i consider that this agreement does not reflect the political changes that have taken place in guinea-bissau in the meantime or the difficulties faced by the fisheries sector. i therefore voted in favour of the report, but i do not think that it is a serious attempt to solve these problems.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the draft legislative resolution of the european parliament on the draft council decision on the conclusion of the protocol between the european union and the republic of cape verde setting out the fishing opportunities and financial contribution provided for in the fisheries partnership agreement between the european union and the republic of cape verde, as it gives its consent to the conclusion of the protocol opening up fishing opportunities to european vessels in the fishing zone of the republic of cape verde. such exploitation of marine resources must, of course, be subject to scientific evidence and within the limits of available resources. i believe that this strengthens the cape verdean economy and the sustainable exploitation of marine resources.
‒ representative van daalen's recommendation on the signing of a new protocol to the fisheries partnership agreement between the eu and the republic of cape verde aims to enable fishing by vessels of member states in cape verdean waters. the protocol will enhance cooperation between the two sides. the value of the protocol during its three-year duration is estimated at eur 3,3 million. the protocol will contribute to better management and conservation of fisheries resources through financial support to benefit local fishermen. i supported the recommendation in order to strengthen cooperation and economic stability of the republic of cape verde.
written. ‒ taking into account the long and good cooperation between the european union and the republic of cape verde in the area of fisheries and fisheries, i consider that the extension of the protocol on the fixing of fishing opportunities and the financial contribution provided for in the fisheries partnership agreement between the european union and the republic of cape verde is beneficial for both parties. the enhanced cooperation between the european union and the republic of cape verde through the establishment of a partnership framework is beneficial for the establishment of a sustainable fisheries policy and the exploitation of fishery resources in the fishing zone in the territory of the republic of cape verde, to the mutual benefit of both the republic of cape verde and the european union. the union shall continue to support the efforts of the cape verdean authorities to ensure that the union's fishing activities are not disrupted by illegal fishing activities. in view of the multiple benefits that this protocol and the agreement will bring to both the european union and the republic of cape verde, and in particular to fishermen, i support this protocol.
written. ‒ i support the rapporteur's recommendation on the draft council decision on the conclusion of the protocol between the european union and the republic of cape verde setting out the fishing opportunities and financial contribution provided for in the fisheries partnership agreement between the european union and the republic of cape verde. i agree that the protocol is beneficial to both parties in order to allow access to fisheries resources and their sustainable exploitation.
written. i welcome the recommendation of my colleague, mr van daalen, on the fisheries partnership agreement with the republic of cape verde and support the conclusion of the said agreement, which is in the interest of both parties. the cape verdean economy will prosper through better exploitation of its resources in accordance with the principles of sustainable fisheries, while the european union will gain access to the cape verdean fishing zone. i also agree with the rapporteur that some aspects of the agreement should be improved by a more in-depth analysis of the previous agreement. the commission notes that the new agreement is not a new agreement, but a new agreement that is not a new agreement.
written. ‒ this explanation of the vote arises as a criticism of the existing system of evaluating the work of meps in the european parliament solely on the basis of the statistical number of parliamentary activities promoted in croatia, which does not actually reflect the actual quality and quantity of work, efficiency and above all the success of the representative action.
written. ‒ i support this report because the new protocol will provide a framework and conditions for the fishing activities of european fleets and vessels and will enable european fishermen and ship owners to continue fishing in cape verde. the protocol will also contribute to better management and conservation of fisheries resources, in particular through financial support. the new protocol also aims to strengthen cooperation between the european union and cape verde and to develop policies that will lead to the rational exploitation of fishery resources in the cape verdean fishing zone. this protocol will also help to better protect sharks, for which the european union will be involved with its developed knowledge in this area, in order to help its partners in cape verde in this regard.
the following is inserted in point 1 (commission decision c (2013) 9413: - i support this report because it clearly underlines the importance of regulating relations on scientific, trade and economic levels between the european union and the republic of cape verde. the report clearly follows the guidelines set by the common fisheries policy (cfp) of the european union and also commits to follow the recommendations of the committee for the conservation of atlantic tunas (iccat). the adoption of this report would agree on the implementation of a number of programmes and initiatives at national and international level, strengthening the policy of the republic of cape verde, in particular the sectoral fisheries policy, so that in the future the republic of cape verde is a country with institutions capable of performing all the tasks required by cooperation with the european union.
written. ‒ i supported the strengthening of cooperation between the european union and cape verde, which allows 71 european union fishing vessels to fish in cape verdean waters, in which spain, portugal and france are interested. i consider it particularly useful in terms of sustainable use of resources that the european union's financial assistance will be used to combat illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing, thereby also developing economic activities in the fisheries sector. i consider that an appropriate level of protection of sharks is an essential factor in the sustainable exploitation of the resource, which is duly recognised in this protocol. the commission has to report regularly to parliament on the quantity of shark catches, with a view to implementing additional measures to significantly reduce shark catches. that's why i supported this agreement.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the proposal for a non-legislative resolution of the european parliament on the draft council decision on the conclusion of the protocol between the european union and the republic of cape verde setting out the fishing opportunities and financial contribution provided for in the fisheries partnership agreement between the eu and the republic of cape verde, as that protocol strengthens cooperation in the field of exploitation of marine resources and sustainable fisheries policy. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the cfp and will continue to monitor the implementation of the cfp. however, it is necessary to provide for a strong monitoring mechanism to ensure the sustainable use of resources and to promote economic, environmental and economic sensitivity. i also strongly support the rational and consistent protection of sharks within safe biological limits.
written. ‒ i supported the report by mr van daalen as the purpose of signing the new protocol is to strengthen cooperation between the european union and cape verde in order to establish a partnership framework for the development of a sustainable fisheries policy and the responsible exploitation of fisheries resources. the commission has decided to establish a monitoring mechanism to ensure the sustainable use of resources and to establish an intervention framework to better manage and standardise the evaluation of the protocol. concerns are expressed about the significant increase in catches of various shark species, which requires a specific type of action and additional measures.
written. ‒ the new protocol between the european union and the republic of cape verde on the fixing of fishing opportunities will provide a framework for fishing activities and will in particular allow vessel owners to continue to obtain authorisations to fish in the waters of the territory of the republic of cape verde. the parties agree to cooperate in the implementation of the partnership agreement and to promote the development of the fisheries sector in the republic of moldova. in addition, one of the objectives of the agreement is to strengthen cooperation between the republic of cape verde and the european union in promoting a sustainable fisheries policy and the rational exploitation of fisheries resources in the cape verdean fishing zone. i support the fisheries partnership agreement with the republic of cape verde, as i have supported the protocol supporting it. i believe that these two documents will make a major contribution to the protection of fisheries resources, the protection of fishermen and the creation of a sustainable fisheries policy.
written. ‒ i support the report containing the proposal for a non-legislative resolution on the draft council decision on the conclusion of the protocol between the european union and the republic of cape verde setting out the fishing opportunities and the financial contribution provided for by the fisheries partnership agreement between the european union and the republic of cape verde. i agree that this is a mutually beneficial agreement that allows access to fisheries resources but also their sustainable exploitation.
written. ‒ this explanation of the vote arises as a criticism of the existing system of evaluating the work of meps in the european parliament solely on the basis of the statistical number of parliamentary activities promoted in croatia, which does not actually reflect the actual quality and quantity of work, efficiency and above all the success of the representative action.
written. ‒ i support this report because the new protocol will provide a framework and conditions for the fishing activities of european fleets and vessels and will enable european fishermen and ship owners to continue fishing in cape verde. the protocol will also contribute to better management and conservation of fisheries resources, in particular through financial support. the new protocol also aims to strengthen cooperation between the european union and cape verde and to develop policies that will lead to the rational exploitation of fishery resources in the cape verdean fishing zone. this protocol will also help to better protect sharks, for which the european union will be involved with its developed knowledge in this area, in order to help its partners in cape verde in this regard.
written. ‒ i supported the report setting out the fishing opportunities and financial contribution between the european union and cape verde. i support the conclusion of a protocol which, inter alia, introduces a close monitoring mechanism based on the exchange of quarterly data on shark catches to ensure sustainable exploitation of the resource. i consider that this agreement was adopted in accordance with the sustainability measures of the new common fisheries policy and the environmental and socio-economic aspects. although research has shown that the exploitation of certain shark species, which account for the majority of total catches, is within safe biological limits, i support the call for guarantees that this fishing will be carried out in a sustainable and responsible manner. in view of the fisheries agreement signed between the european commission and cape verde, i consider it appropriate to monitor all fishing activities in the region, including those that may not be in line with the european fisheries policy, in order to ensure that all stakeholders are informed and that the european union is informed of all activities before the next extension of the agreement.
written. ‒ i support this recommendation to allow eu vessels to fish in madagascar's fishing zone, in accordance with the management measures. the commission shall be assisted by the european fisheries fund, the european fisheries fund for rural development and the european fisheries fund for the aegean sea.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the draft legislative resolution of the european parliament on the draft council decision on the conclusion of the protocol setting out the fishing opportunities and financial contribution provided for in the fisheries partnership agreement between the european community and the republic of madagascar, as this gives consent to the conclusion of the protocol and allows a certain number of european vessels to fish in the fishing zone of the republic of madagascar. the european union will also finance the fisheries sector of the republic of madagascar, to the mutual benefit of both parties. the possibility of detailed scientific monitoring, including experimental fishing campaigns, is also established. however, i believe that such activities must take account first of all of the sustainable exploitation of marine, i.e. fisheries, resources and pay particular attention to the conservation of biodiversity and the environment.
‒ the economy of madagascar, an island nation in the indian ocean, is largely based on agriculture, livestock and fishing. the fishing opportunities available to madagascar are based on international agreements, one of which is the fisheries partnership agreement. the new draft protocol was proposed on 19 june 2014 and aims to provide fishing opportunities for eu vessels in malagasy waters within the permitted limits and to enhance cooperation between the eu and madagascar, creating a partnership that is the basis for the development of a sustainable fisheries policy and the exploitation of fishery resources in the malagasy fishing zone. the total financial amount allocated to this protocol shall be eur 6,602 million for the period 2015 to 2018. i supported the report because it represents a high-quality agreement for the fisheries sector. the protocol defines the target species, the expected value of the fish, the amount of money invested and the expected return. it also strengthens madagascar's economic stability, thereby reducing its need for international assistance, and strengthens its fishing sector and local fishing industry.
written. ‒ for a long time, madagascar's main source of income was fishing, with tuna and shellfish being the main exports. the fishing opportunities available to madagascar are set out in annex i to this regulation. the agreement aims to conclude a protocol setting out the fishing opportunities and financial contributions provided for in the fisheries partnership agreement between the european community and madagascar. the partnership between madagascar and the european union has been successful so far and its extension is therefore beneficial for both sides. the main objective of the agreement is to achieve cooperation between the european union and madagascar by establishing a partnership with a focus on sustainable fisheries. this agreement allows vessels from spain, portugal, italy and france to sail and fish off the coast of madagascar and forms part of the tuna fisheries contract network. it is very important to work on the development of sustainable fisheries and to provide financial assistance to madagascar, which is why i support the extension of the fisheries partnership agreement between madagascar and the european union. the financial packages will also help to combat the illegal fishing that is always present. for all these reasons, i voted in favour of this agreement.
written. ‒ i support the recommendation for a draft council decision on the conclusion, on behalf of the european union, of the protocol setting out the fishing opportunities and financial contribution provided for in the fisheries partnership agreement between the european community and the republic of madagascar. i particularly support the provisions on the sustainable exploitation of fisheries resources, given that as much as 90% of plant and animal species are endemic, which best demonstrates the exceptional value and level of biodiversity on this island, which we must treat responsibly.
written. i support the fisheries partnership agreement with madagascar and the report by mr santos. the commission has also been active in the development of the fisheries sector in the eu, with a particular focus on the fisheries sector in the baltic sea. the agreement with madagascar specifies the target species, the expected value of the fish caught, the amounts to be invested and the expected return on investment, which makes it a good partnership agreement and fights the criticisms mentioned. the european union will finance the malagasy fisheries sector with a budget of eur 6 107 500 over four years. the primary objective of the agreement is to allow eu vessels to fish in the fishing zone of the republic of madagascar, in accordance with the measures adopted by the competent regional fisheries management organisation, namely the iotc, and, in particular, to enhance cooperation between the european union and madagascar by establishing a framework for the development of a sustainable fisheries policy and setting out measures for the exploitation of resources in the fishing zone of madagascar to the benefit of both parties.
written. ‒ this explanation of the vote arises as a criticism of the existing system of evaluating the work of meps in the european parliament solely on the basis of the statistical number of parliamentary activities promoted in croatia, which does not actually reflect the actual quality and quantity of work, efficiency and above all the success of the representative action.
written. ‒ i support this report because, among other things, this protocol promotes relations between the european union and madagascar and their further cooperation. the eu and madagascar shall cooperate in the implementation of this protocol. the protocol will facilitate the development of fisheries and fisheries policies. the protocol will in particular help madagascar in the fight against illegal fishing. the european union will also help with its scientific achievements and knowledge in terms of better monitoring, developing local fisheries, and european citizens will have access to quality fish and seafood.
written. ‒ the fact that madagascar is remote from the european union's territory and territories makes it essential to set out clearly the framework for cooperation and exploiting the surplus fishing potential. the commission has also taken note of the fact that the malagasy authorities have not yet been able to verify the compliance of the vessels with the provisions of the agreement on fisheries between the european union and madagascar. i support this report because it clearly underlines the importance of implementing article 9 of the fisheries partnership agreement, which properly meets the above needs.
written. ‒ as shadow rapporteur, i supported this four-year agreement worth €6 602 million, which allows european union vessels to fish in the waters of the republic of madagascar. i believe that the said agreement will help to strengthen bilateral relations and bring benefits to both parties. in particular, european union countries such as france, spain, portugal and italy will retain the tuna fishing licence in that area. the partnership agreement therefore specifies the exact target species and the expected value of the fish as well as the amount of the investment and the expected return, which i consider to be very useful provisions because they encourage transparency. the benefit to madagascar of this agreement is primarily financial assistance, the expenditure of which is earmarked for the development of fisheries. the commission has also received a number of complaints from the member states concerning the use of the financial corrections provided for in the guidelines on the application of the principle of equal treatment for men and women in the provision of services.
written. ‒ i support the report on the amendment of the marrakesh agreement. the agreement will benefit both developed and developing countries. of course, for the agreement to become valid, it needs to be ratified by two-thirds of the wto members, but i think the importance of this agreement is great for developing countries.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the draft legislative resolution of the european parliament on the draft council decision on the conclusion of the protocol amending the marrakesh agreement establishing the world trade organisation, as this is the way to give consent to the conclusion of the agreement. it is clear that there are still differences between developed and developing countries, to which must be added inefficient customs management, poor infrastructure and a high level of bureaucracy. i therefore believe that it is necessary to balance the difference in the implementation capacity of the countries present between countries and to emphasise the importance of technical assistance and of raising the level of transparency.
written. ‒ since its creation in 1995, the world trade organisation (wto) has played an important role in creating a rules-based international trading system. the original purpose of the eu, as of gatt (later the wto), was to remove customs barriers and promote trade between its member states. the main objective of the agreement is to simplify and accelerate the customs clearance of goods in the world, and thereby strengthen the global economy. reducing overall costs and increasing trade are creating a better investment climate around the world. the agreement is particularly important for the development of countries and for helping small and medium-sized enterprises, as it allows access to regional and global markets. i supported the report by mr zalba because the implementation of the agreement will provide an opportunity for developing countries, especially small and medium-sized enterprises, to have a friendly business environment and will allow citizens easier access to a wider variety of products at lower prices. given that croatia is also a country that is just developing its market and should strengthen its competitiveness, and that the eu has committed itself to financial assistance to developing countries, especially in projects such as the improvement of the customs system and trade reform, i once again appeal to the croatian government to take advantage of the assistance provided to them.
written. ‒ taking into account the benefits that this protocol to amend the marrakesh agreement will bring to trade facilitation and customs compliance, i support these amendments. i believe that they will make a major contribution to the simplification of trade between the member countries of the world trade organisation, by abolishing, simplifying and clarifying the interpretation of many customs regulations which differ between countries. i also think that this creates a better understanding, speeds up trade and the exchange of goods, money and services, which opens up the possibility of economic growth. one of the main objectives is to harmonise standards and controls for the quality and control of goods in circulation. the contribution that this protocol to amend the marrakesh agreement will make to developing countries by opening up new opportunities for trade and business is of particular importance. the reduction in the total cost of trade should also result in a reduction in the final prices of products paid by the customer, which is also a positive contribution of this protocol amending the marrakesh agreement.
written. ‒ last year's tfa was the first multilateral agreement since the world trade organisation was established in 1995. the new agreement is expected to significantly reduce the time and cost of trade, thereby providing developing companies and least developed countries with easier access to new export opportunities. for the reasons set out above, i support the recommendation for a draft council decision on the conclusion, on behalf of the european union, of the protocol amending the marrakesh agreement establishing the world trade organisation.
written. the trade facilitation agreement, adopted at the wto ministerial conference in bali (7 december 2013), is the first comprehensive multilateral agreement concluded since the establishment of the wto. a key aspect of the said treaty is technical assistance to developing and least developed countries by donor countries. the agreement is estimated to have a significant impact on global trade by reducing the costs of complicated customs procedures. the european union will provide a total of 400 million euros in aid over a period of five years. the union will also provide assistance to other organisations such as the world bank, unctad, and the member states of the union. it is very important to achieve good coordination of these resources in order to avoid spending money or multiple funding for the same purpose. in view of the above, i support the proposal of my colleague, mr zalba bidegain.
written. ‒ this explanation of the vote arises as a criticism of the existing system of evaluating the work of meps in the european parliament solely on the basis of the statistical number of parliamentary activities promoted in croatia, which does not actually reflect the actual quality and quantity of work, efficiency and above all the success of the representative action.
written. ‒ i support this report because the agreement can bring many global benefits. it facilitates cooperation between customs authorities of a number of countries, and cooperation and exchange of experience are of paramount importance. the agreement can also greatly help the exchange of goods worldwide, entrepreneurship, competition, and small and medium-sized enterprises, particularly in developing countries. the simplification and acceleration of the movement and customs clearance of goods worldwide are important and beneficial and this agreement can therefore bring economic growth and economic progress to countries around the world.
written. ‒ the report highlights the importance of the provisions adopted in the package of measures during the ninth ministerial conference of the world trade organisation in bali. through a so-called package of measures, the report promotes the smooth development of international trade. i support this report, which is also important for my country, which as a member of the eu, but also as a developing country, can see the importance of easing customs and trade measures by its own example. the adoption of these measures improves the climate in trade relations between eu member states, but also with non-eu countries, and empowers the european union to increase cooperation or partnership with developing or underdeveloped countries.
written. ‒ i supported this protocol to amend the marrakesh agreement which, according to studies carried out, should bring over 100 billion euros to the global economy. i believe that this multilateral agreement will be of great benefit to developing countries, but also to other member states, since its implementation will reduce trade costs in their entirety. the facilitation agreement is the first multilateral agreement based on new rules negotiated under the auspices of the world trade organization, which allows development for least developed countries and classifies commitments and determines their timing, while inviting donor countries to work together and provide development assistance to least developed countries to implement the provisions of the treaty. i also find it extremely useful to set up an expert group to assess the situation in the countries after the implementation deadlines have expired, as this will help to increase transparency.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the european parliament's non-legislative resolution on the draft council decision on the conclusion of the protocol amending the marrakesh agreement establishing the world trade organisation, as it will improve the business environment, in particular for small and medium-sized enterprises, and will benefit developing countries and ldcs. the commission notes that the aid is granted to the beneficiaries of the measure. i also believe that there is a need to increase transparency, improve cooperation between customs authorities and strengthen cooperation with professional organisations. the commission therefore considers that the aid is compatible with the internal market.
the trade facilitation agreement was reached at the 9th ministerial conference in december 2013 and is the first multilateral agreement concluded by the wto since its establishment in 1995. the main objective of the agreement is to simplify and accelerate the customs clearance of goods in the world, resulting in a strengthening of the global economy. the wto conference in bali in november 2014 adopted a protocol to amend the marrakesh treaty establishing the wto. the next phase was the adoption of the amendment protocol scheduled for july 2014, but this was prevented by india due to food safety concerns. in november of that year, the wto general council nevertheless adopted the protocol, paving the way for its acceptance, and it will enter into force once ratified by two-thirds of wto members. the accession of the european union is necessary for the ratification by the council of the protocol. as the amendments include trade facilitation and simplification of customs procedures and the protocol is in line with the economic objectives of the union, i supported the report by mr zalba bidegain.
written. ‒ in supporting the protocol amending the marrakesh agreement establishing the world trade organisation, i also support the trade facilitation agreement. this agreement will contribute to facilitating the trade of goods at global level and thereby to improving the world economic situation. it will also benefit developing countries by opening up new trade routes, increasing their trade, leading to reduced unemployment and job creation, improved living conditions, health care, etc. increasing world trade will have a positive impact on all aspects of life and work, both for traders and workers. we need transparency in trade, as we are faced with all kinds of illegal sales of goods and all kinds of manipulation and fraud. i believe that this agreement can bring many benefits to trade and trade relations, and thus to the global economy and to people's lives.
written. ‒ last year's tfa was the first multilateral agreement since the world trade organisation was established in 1995. the new agreement is expected to significantly reduce the time and cost of trade, thereby providing developing companies and least developed countries with easier access to new export opportunities. for the reasons set out above, i support this report containing the proposal for a non-legislative resolution on the draft council decision on the conclusion, on behalf of the european union, of the protocol amending the marrakesh agreement establishing the world trade organisation.
written. i would welcome the outcome of the ninth wto ministerial conference in bali on 7 december 2013, which adopted the trade facilitation agreement. the said agreement is the first comprehensive multilateral agreement concluded after the establishment of the wto. i believe that the tfa will enable the modernisation of customs between the 161 wto members and bring the greatest benefit to developing and least developed countries in particular, by creating a better business environment and reducing uncertainty in terms of market entry conditions and the cost of trade. unfortunately, there are still big differences in border procedures between developed and developing countries. the fact is that poor infrastructure and excessive bureaucracy in developing countries' customs slow down trade. for this reason, i fully support this report and the union's initiative to allocate eur 400 million to support reforms that will facilitate trade and reduce the customs system gap between wto member countries.
written. ‒ this explanation of the vote arises as a criticism of the existing system of evaluating the work of meps in the european parliament solely on the basis of the statistical number of parliamentary activities promoted in croatia, which does not actually reflect the actual quality and quantity of work, efficiency and above all the success of the representative action.
written. ‒ i support this report because the wto trade facilitation agreement is useful and facilitates the movement, customs and exchange of goods around the world. to achieve this, it requires greater cooperation between the customs authorities of different countries, and better cooperation between countries results in stronger economies. furthermore, this agreement has the potential to benefit traders worldwide and to increase global economic growth. it also reduces costs, and increases trade in both imports and exports, while also creating a better investment climate around the world. trade facilitation is particularly important for developing countries, and i welcome measures to help small and medium-sized enterprises.
written. ‒ implementing this report would reduce costs, in particular by liberalising customs regimes and facilitating trade between countries of different economic performance. the report is particularly targeted at developing and underdeveloped countries. the report also supports the package of measures adopted in bali during the ninth ministerial conference of the world trade organisation. by expressing a united position on this issue, we are able to show that the european union never stands in the way of clear guidelines for greater and better trade connectivity and that we are ready to help all those countries interested in trade breakthroughs.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of a resolution outlining the clear and immediate economic benefits that the marrakesh agreement will bring to developing countries and aimed at removing the excessive and inefficient administration that is a major problem for these countries in multilateral trade. in order to implement customs and administrative reform, certain countries need support, and i therefore consider it extremely useful to highlight the concrete action that allows those countries to decide when certain provisions will apply and for which provisions technical assistance will be needed. i believe that developing and least developed countries should make the most efficient use of the 400 million euros allocated by the european union to support trade facilitation reforms to strengthen their economies and improve trade with other countries.
written. ‒ i support this recommendation on the ratification of the budapest convention by belgium and poland, and on the accession of austria to the convention. so far, 11 countries are involved in the inland waterway process, while 15 countries have no inland waterways covered by the convention. given that those member states have expressed their wish to ratify and accede, i support this recommendation.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the draft legislative resolution of the european parliament on the draft council decision authorising the kingdom of belgium and the republic of poland to ratify the budapest convention on the contract for the carriage of goods by inland waterways and the republic of austria to accede to that convention, as this contributes to the internal market in the field of transport by harmonising standards of inland navigation and contracts for the benefit of businesses and citizens. although the european union as such cannot be a party to the convention, member states cannot accede to it without authorisation from the eu, and 11 member states have so far acceded to the convention. therefore, given the importance of the convention for inland waterway states, i strongly support the authorisation of the ratification process for poland and belgium and the accession of austria to it.
the budapest convention on the contract for the carriage of goods by inland waterways entered into force on 1 april 2015. it covers issues such as the rights and obligations of the parties to the contract, transport documents, the liability of drivers and the time limits for making claims. the convention applies to contracts for the international carriage of goods between states at least one of which is a party to the convention and contributes to the internal market in transport, the harmonisation of contracts and internal navigation standards throughout europe. the convention is an agreement falling within the exclusive competence of the european union. however, it does not allow the union to become a party, but member states cannot ratify or accede to the convention without the approval of the union. eleven member states are already parties to the convention and 15 have indicated that they do not have inland waterways covered by this convention. austria and poland have expressed an interest in acceding to the convention. belgium ratified the convention on 5 august 2008, after the entry into force of the rome regulation. i supported the report authorising belgium and poland to ratify and austria to accede to the convention, because the implementation of this legal instrument has broad implications for the development of transport rights as well as for the development of small and medium-sized enterprises in the vicinity of inland waterways.
‒ the budapest convention on the contract for the carriage of goods by inland waterways, which entered into force on 1 april 2005, contributes to the internal market in transport by harmonising contractual and internal navigation standards across europe. the convention does not provide for the possibility of the european union becoming a party. however, member states cannot ratify or accede to the convention without the approval of the european union. the eleven member states of the european union with inland waterways covered by the convention have already become parties to it and benefit from the benefits it offers them, and the eu recognises the importance of signing the convention for its member states. recognising the importance of the creation of instruments for the harmonisation of contractual and internal navigational standards throughout europe and the benefits they bring to the signatory countries, i support the granting of ratification of the budapest convention to the kingdom of belgium and the republic of poland and the accession of the republic of austria to the convention.
written. ‒ having regard to the budapest convention on the contract for the carriage of goods by inland waterways (08223/15/add1), the council's request for assent pursuant to article 81 (2) and article 218 (6), second subparagraph, point (a) of the treaty on the functioning of the european union (c8-0173/2015), the first and third subparagraphs of article 99 (1), article 99 (2) and article 108 (7) of the rules of procedure, and the recommendation of the committee on legal affairs (a8-0231/2015), i agree with the above-mentioned recommendation on the draft council decision granting the kingdom of belgium and the republic of poland ratification of the budapest convention on the contract for the carriage of goods by inland waterways (cmni), and accession to that convention by the republic of austria, which will be granted access to the said transportation by inland waterways. i hope that the european union will continue to encourage the development of inland waterways as constructive alternatives to road and rail transport.
written. i support the recommendations on the draft council decision authorising the kingdom of belgium and the republic of poland to ratify the budapest convention on the contract for the carriage of goods by inland waterways (cmni) and the republic of austria to accede to that convention. the budapest convention on the contract for the carriage of goods by inland waterways was adopted at the diplomatic conference of the central commission for navigation on the rhine and the danube commission in cooperation with the un economic commission for europe. it entered into force on 1 april 2005 and contributes to the internal market in transport by harmonising contracts and inland navigation standards across europe. i support the approval of the council decision authorising the kingdom of belgium and the republic of poland to ratify the budapest convention on the contract for the carriage of goods by inland waterways and the republic of austria to accede to that convention.
written. ‒ this explanation of the vote arises as a criticism of the existing system of evaluating the work of meps in the european parliament solely on the basis of the statistical number of parliamentary activities promoted in croatia, which does not actually reflect the actual quality and quantity of work, efficiency and above all the success of the representative action.
written. ‒ i have supported the draft council decision authorising the kingdom of belgium and the republic of poland to ratify the budapest convention on the contract for the carriage of goods by inland waterways (cmni) and the republic of austria to accede to that convention, having regard to the first and third subparagraphs of article 99 (1), article 99 (2) and article 108 (7) of the rules of procedure, and having regard to the recommendation of the committee on legal affairs. austria and poland have expressed an interest in becoming parties to the convention. their participation will bring many benefits to citizens and businesses. belgium ratified the convention on 5 august 2008, following the entry into force of the rome i regulation of 24 july 2008. the commission has not yet received any information on the number of applications for accession.
written. ‒ i support the recommendation that allows for the early ratification of the already agreed contracts for the transport of goods by inland waterways, as it is fundamental to the maximum support for the project of developing the danube river area. this project is also accessible to some non-eu countries. the adoption of the budapest charter will accelerate economic development and improve trade on the inland waterways of europe, while providing access to waterways to those countries whose membership can benefit all parties involved in the charter.
written. ‒ i supported the ratification by belgium and poland and the accession of austria to the budapest convention on the contract for the carriage of goods by inland waterways, as this convention has proved extremely useful in achieving its purpose, which is to harmonise contractual standards and standards for inland navigation in the field of transport with regard to the internal market. this is the experience of certain member states of the european union, such as croatia, the czech republic, france, germany and hungary, which have an interest in participating in this convention and are already contracting parties and whose carriers are subject to the obligations, responsibilities and rights provided for in this convention.
written. ‒ i support the report on the interim measures in the area of international protection for the benefit of italy and greece, which constitute a fair and just resettlement mechanism to reduce the pressure on these two eu member states. as the report itself says, this is not a permanent solution but only a temporary measure, and we must all together show a greater degree of solidarity in the spirit of the high democratic values of the european union.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the draft legislative resolution of the european parliament on the proposal for a council decision introducing temporary measures in the area of international protection for the benefit of italy and greece, because it is clear that there is a need for greater solidarity, i.e. a common european union response to the current migration crisis. it is clear that italy and greece need strong support, given that they are the first to face the migrants arriving in europe, and that europe needs a single foreign policy to address this problem in north africa, the middle east, ukraine and other crisis areas. the commission should also be able to provide information on the implementation of the relocation process, including on the number of persons transferred to the relocation centre, the number of persons transferred to the relocation centre and the number of persons transferred to the relocation centre.
written. ‒ in april this year, more than 800 people died in the mediterranean on their way to europe and a better life. they survived war and persecution, but lost their lives at the gates of europe. the commission should also be able to provide the necessary information to the member states in order to ensure that the union's actions are consistent with the objectives of the union's external action. i supported the report by mrs keller, in the hope that an agreement could be reached as soon as possible on the new waves of refugees coming to europe, with an emphasis on solidarity between member states.
written. ‒ the objective of this proposal is to establish temporary measures in the area of international protection for the benefit of italy and greece, in order to enable them to deal appropriately with the current significant influx of third-country nationals. the large numbers of people arriving in these countries put an enormous strain on the security and asylum systems and the systems responsible for providing aid. the temporary measures provided for in this proposal relate primarily to the transfer of applications for international protection (by persons in clear need of such protection) from italy and greece to the other member states of the european union. this report sends a clear message to the council that more solidarity and responsibility are needed to respond adequately to the rapidly growing needs caused by the large number of asylum seekers coming to europe. the situation is alarming, it requires urgent and concrete action, which is why i supported this report.
written. ‒ i support the report by mrs keller, which calls for solidarity between member states and solidarity with refugees. i believe that the current eu migration policy is not enough to solve the problem of illegal migration. we have several hot spots in the world. first, there's the war in eastern ukraine, then the situation with the islamic state group in iraq and the levant in the middle east, and then the various natural and social disasters that have hit large parts of africa. the pressure on european leaders is immense, and the countries on europe's southern borders must not be left alone in providing help to those fleeing all crises with the hope of a better future.
written. i support the report on the proposal for a council decision on the implementation of provisional measures in the area of international protection for the benefit of italy and greece. no member state can effectively deal with the refugee crisis on its own. the european parliament, in its resolution of 28 april 2015, stressed that the eu must base its response to the tragedy in the mediterranean on solidarity and responsibility-sharing, in particular with those member states which host the largest number of refugees. if italy and greece do not receive adequate support, further movements of refugees and migrants are likely to continue on a larger scale. this puts at risk one of the eu's key achievements, freedom of movement within the schengen area.
written. ‒ this explanation of the vote arises as a criticism of the existing system of evaluating the work of meps in the european parliament solely on the basis of the statistical number of parliamentary activities promoted in croatia, which does not actually reflect the actual quality and quantity of work, efficiency and above all the success of the representative action.
written. ‒ statistics from the beginning of 2015 confirm a clear trend of an increase in illegal entries into italy. the commission has also assessed the situation of the greek authorities in relation to the illegal border crossing. the objective should therefore be to establish temporary measures in the area of international protection for the benefit of italy and greece in order to help them to take care of refugees. the commission should also be able to provide the necessary information to the member states in order to ensure that the necessary measures are taken to ensure the effective implementation of the union's external borders policy. on all of the above, i support the report.
written. ‒ i support this report in order to finally reach a decision that would help our member states to deal more simply and easily with the problem of accepting migrants. in the hope that the european union will soon address the causes of the increasing influx of migrants into its territory and preserve the schengen borders, i believe it is in the meantime of vital interest to provide assistance to greece and italy to facilitate the relocation of migrants who do not intend to remain in those countries. as part of the european union, croatia is ready to accept a certain quota proposed by the institutions of the european union, agreed in accordance with the interests of all countries, provided that this quota is in line with the current infrastructure and economic capabilities of our country.
written. ‒ i cannot support a system of forced relocation of migrants and asylum seekers, because i believe that a much more effective and sustainable approach to tackling the current crisis is to build trust through a voluntary system in which each member state would be ready to offer financial and other assistance to those member states that are on the front lines; for now, these are italy and greece. i consider it crucial to find solutions to the causes of mass migration, to establish strong and decisive measures to punish human traffickers, to help overcome the conflict and rebuild peace, and to establish a system for the return of migrants to their home countries. i also support the strengthening of the role of frontex and easo. i cannot agree with certain proposals incorporated in the report, such as the proposal to set up a system whereby refugees would have to give their consent to the member state in which they would be allocated. at this point, i am making it a priority to build infrastructure and to establish an efficient system that will be prepared for all future challenges of migration flows, which will certainly occur at the external borders of the european union.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the european parliament resolution on the urban dimension of eu policies, as i believe that eu policies should support small and large cities and functional urban areas and enable them to realise their potential as drivers of economic growth, employment and social development. i support the establishment of a european urban agenda as a coherent framework for eu policies with an urban dimension, with the aim of better linking local urban solutions to eu problems. the increasing disparity between administrative and territorial structures (urban and suburban areas and rural areas) requires new forms of flexible management to continue the integrated territorial development of functional areas. the european urban agenda should be based on a multi-level governance approach that encourages greater involvement of the local level in all phases of the policy cycle, thereby improving the alignment of policies with the continuous changes in functional urban areas.
written. ‒ many of the challenges facing europe today are economic, climate, environmental and social and are manifested around cities, e.g. poverty, social and spatial segregation, environmental degradation, or find their solutions in and through cities, e.g. resource efficiency and a co2-neutral economy, economic development and innovation, social innovation and integration. this report suggests that cities should be more appropriately involved in the design and implementation of european union policies and that these policies should be better adapted to urban realities. the european urban agenda has thus been supported to be developed in the form of a thematically focused framework, to become a full member of the european union's urban policy in the foreseeable future and in the foreseeable future. that is why i support this report on the urban dimension of eu policies and why i voted in favour.
‒ in 2014, half of the world's population and 72% of europe's population lived in urban areas and by 2050, almost 80% of the world's population will live in urban areas. functional urban areas in the eu form a single polycentric structure built around large, medium and small cities and surrounding areas, thus transcending traditional administrative boundaries to encompass different areas linked by their economic, social, environmental and demographic challenges. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the eu's new rules on the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances and will continue to monitor the implementation of the new rules on the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances and the implementation of the new rules on the protection of the environment. eu policies should thus support small and large cities and functional urban areas and enable them to reach their full potential as drivers of economic growth, employment, social inclusion and sustainable development.
written. i support the report by rapporteur westphal on the proposal for a council decision on the urban dimension of eu policies, which aims to address urban challenges for eu policy-makers and to design guidelines and boundaries for future sustainable eu urban development policies. i support the view that cities have an important role to play in achieving the employment targets of the europe 2020 strategy and that they must therefore be included in the overall eu policy-making process, which can be achieved by including city representatives in expert groups which should also consult civil society actors and social partners. as cities and towns and functional urban areas such as metropolitan areas play an important role in participatory democracy, but also represent key economic pillars and drivers of employment in the eu, and as innovation and new economic activities often originate in cities, i consider this report necessary. in the light of all of the above, i agree that eu policy should support small and large cities and functional urban areas and enable them to reach their full potential as drivers of economic growth, employment, social inclusion and sustainable development.
written. ‒ in 1950, only 50.5% of europe's population lived in urban areas. the commission shall be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 26 to supplement this regulation by laying down detailed rules for the application of this regulation. an increasing percentage of the global population lives in cities and there is a great need to develop meaningful urban policies. i would like to focus on the following questions: what is the eu's space for action in urban policy? how are eu policies currently affecting cities, and what impact should they have in the future? how can the coordination and coherence of eu urban policy be improved? it is important to note that in the european union, almost half of europeans live in cities with fewer than 100 000 inhabitants, and the commission's projections show that today's cities will grow into 'megacities' by 2050. the expected increase in urban population poses challenges to the direction of economic development, administrative structures and decision-making in growing cities. i believe that the development of future major cities will depend on city-to-city partnerships, structural funds, smarter regulation and the development of new governance models for multi-level governance. the commission shall be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 264 concerning the establishment of a european data protection supervisor.
written. ‒ i support this report because most of the current challenges facing europe, especially those related to the economy, climate, society and the environment, poverty, social and spatial segregation and so on, are manifested in or around cities. that is, solutions to the same problems are often found in or through cities. cities should therefore be better involved in the conception and implementation of european union policies, and european policies should be better adapted to urban environments and their realities. it is therefore important that there is a certain unified and integrated european union policy towards cities and urban areas, and it is also very important that at the european union level, cities and urban areas have better coordination of policies and instruments, for which there is justified possibility of appointing a representative to take care of urban affairs and issues.
written. ‒ the fact is that most jobs and activities take place in cities. accordingly, a more modern eu policy is needed to tackle the potential problems facing cities. i support the initiative on the urban dimension of european cities. the agency shall be responsible for the implementation of the tasks assigned to it by this regulation. the commission will continue to support the development of the european union's urban infrastructure policy, in particular through the european commission's urban infrastructure strategy. cities are hubs, and by that very fact they profile and attract large numbers of individuals, making them the main drivers of development and progress.
written. ‒ this report responds to the launch of a public debate by the commission and to the adoption of a formal communication the urban dimension of european union policies - key features of the union's urban agendaˮ, which highlighted the challenges and potential of an urban europe and proposed a set of consultation questions aimed at clarifying the need for an urban dimension of european union policy, i.e. what its objectives should be and how it should best function in the future. i fully support the parts of the report that call for more uniform and coordinated urban policy-making, increased exchange of knowledge and good practice and strengthening the influence of regional and local authorities in this area. that's why i voted yes.
mrs mogherini, i have a simple question: is the european union ready for a new global initiative, let us call it oslo ii, because oslo i certainly gave great hope? are we prepared to go on a major diplomatic offensive, as you have done on other occasions, which i want to congratulate you on, of course, and try to really open up a major new regional narrative for the middle east? do we have a partner in this? do the countries with whom we are normally partners in some big business want to join us and use their influence to make another big step in the middle east? and the question is, is there still a realistic possibility of two states, israel and palestine, which i believe is the only right solution, but the question is, is it really possible? i hope i get your answer.
mr. president, i was an observer at the presidential election, but also at the mass protests in december 2010 when thousands of people protested in minsk against the rigging of the presidential election. the most prominent opposition leaders were arrested and sentenced. indeed, six well-known political prisoners were recently released, but the arrests of graffiti artists in minsk immediately increased, so it is too early to talk about the irreversible loosening of the dictatorship. belarus will hold presidential elections on october 11, but the winner is already almost certain. opportunity experts believe that president lukashenko will likely seek to have the election result recognized and that the west lift sanctions against him. indeed, how real is the possibility that europe's longest-serving dictator will gradually become a partner of the european union in the turbulent space of its eastern neighbourhood? the european, i.e. belarusian opposition remains fragmented and paralyzed. the country became a backdrop for the russian crisis. however, i support the return to dialogue because the alternative is unclear.
madam vice president, the honourable high representative mogherini, thank you for your statement. i think we have all prepared a very good resolution today on the situation in belarus, where we are all aware that a few weeks before the new presidential elections the result is practically known in advance, because we see that the process of democratization and transition is more than a dispute in this european country, which from the series of presentations of our colleagues represents a kind of anachronism. however, after the visit of the delegation in charge of belarus led by mr zdrojewski, after more than 13 years, we can note some progress by the european parliament, a progress in the dialogue on the protection of human rights, and of course we also look positively at the release of political prisoners as a signal for the better. however, this should not be a one-off move, but we expect it to continue and that this process of gradual evolution of the situation and regime in belarus has its own better and european standard. i also think that the commission should consider the possibility of sectoral cooperation, especially one that is not strictly related to meeting political criteria, to influence young people, to influence the media scene and, of course, to help the belarusian opposition in this respect. i would remind you of the euronest assembly in yerevan a few months ago, which was attended by representatives of the belarusian opposition and which i saw as a positive step. as head of the delegation for ukraine, i believe that this particular role of belarus as a certain international mediator is important, but it would also be good if the situation in ukraine was presented objectively, not influenced by russian propaganda, and that in some way the situation in ukraine helped the democratization in belarus. the existence of the death penalty, the execution of the death penalty is for every conviction and that is why i hope that our dialogue in the field of human rights will also lead to the acceptance of global and european standards on the protection of human rights and, of course, the abolition of the death penalty.
mr. president, there is no doubt that positive developments are being observed in belarus. however, on the other hand, these positive developments should not give us too much hope that there will be really more radical changes, because objectively it is very difficult to believe that lukashenko will change much. however, i am convinced that any opening in belarus, given the overall context of the eastern partnership and all that we know is happening in the east of our continent, should be welcomed. and of course, we should encourage the belarusians to think about their future within the european union. this process will be long, as with the western balkans, perhaps even longer. but on the other hand, the alternative is just to embrace russia or maybe something else, a third, a fourth. so i am convinced that the policy you want to implement in belarus is a step-by-step policy and i hope that this policy will give a good result in the near future.
the question he raised by raising his blue card. what i want to ask simply, as a frequent critic of the european union, do you agree with me that this is a great achievement of the european union, that this is a great achievement of the high representative, of our common policy, the premise for creating peace on our planet and the possibility, regardless of everything we know is happening in iran, that iran is still a country that will contribute to peace on our planet? do you agree with the great success of the european union and the contribution to peace on this planet?
mr president, ms mogherini, it seems to me that the level of european commitment to the fight for human rights in third countries is too dependent on political momentum. this is confirmed by your recent meetings with iranian officials in which you failed to point out the still present problem of female executions and repression of women in iran. i believe that the progress in the negotiations between america and iran has contributed greatly to this european selectivity and forgetfulness when it comes to the human rights of iranians. i want to know if you will be more determined in the future to advocate for women's rights in iran and more credibly implement european human rights policy because i think the message to iran is now: hang, stone, kill whoever you want, but you cannot have nuclear weapons.
mr president, when we talk about the uneven development of the member states in the context of cohesion policy and unemployment, most colleagues are full of dedication to reducing the differences between member states. when it comes to reducing unemployment, the same meps are the biggest proponents of mobility. i cannot help but wonder how you intend to reduce the disparities between member states if all the young and qualified people from those who are currently less developed go the way of the more developed member states. who will be the bearer of future development and growth in these poorer countries? retired people, civil servants? for cohesion policy to have any chance of producing any results, we must keep young and qualified people in their home countries. not by force or administrative barriers, but by addressing each country individually and helping it to overcome specific problems and implement structural reforms that would open up opportunities for young people to bring their knowledge, skills and ideas to market at little cost in their home country.
mr president, european health systems will face the same problems in the future as they do today, but the scale of the problem will be much greater. the obesity epidemic, chronic noncommunicable diseases, and the growing aging population are just a few of them, all underscored by the fact that health care is increasingly in the hands of economists and fiscal policy and less and less in the hands of the profession. the fact that antibiotics are becoming less effective, that vaccination rates are declining, and that geopolitical instability in the european union's neighbourhood is fuelling mass population movements, suggests that the pressures on health systems will only get greater and greater. member states spend on average around 10% of gdp on health. in most countries, about 80 percent of the cost of health care is covered by public money. this is sustainable as long as gdp is growing strongly and the demographic picture is moving in the direction of increasing the working age population. but as we know, the reality is different. the european union does not have a broad mandate on health, but some of the tools at its disposal, such as the european semester, can make a difference. commissioner andriukaitis spoke at the beginning of his term about the health union and indeed, the european health system will have a better future if it combines human and material resources. (the president agreed to answer the question by raising the blue card under rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure.)
answer the question posed by raising the blue card. this is the reality of the european union as long as it is, and thank god it is, a safe haven for many of the world's poor. so it's to be expected that as long as the european union is as rich and advanced as it is today that we'll have people coming here from poorer countries, and of course it's up to our health systems to deal with that by knowing and training enough of their doctors.
madam president, it is true that the union is based on rights, on the treaty, on rules, and it is true that this is what guarantees the unity of the union and guarantees this order that we are creating together. it is also true that much should be simplified. however, what is problematic is that many member states are behaving as if we were at a market or an à la carte restaurant and everyone is taking what suits him and trying not to take what does not suit him from certain regulations and certain laws. and there is an important role for the commission to monitor the application of all these regulations and laws because otherwise we will have the same laws, but different application, and that definitely then cannot be security for citizens, for businesses and for our system. i support what our fellow mp wrote in the report and hope that this is a good way to deal with such problems.
madam president, human trafficking is surely the greatest human rights violation we witness almost every day. human trafficking, especially the fact that women are the ones who are the most damaged in all of this, shows how much malice and hypocrisy exists in all those who tolerate such a situation. today we were talking about the application of european regulations, the other day about girls' education, and now we are talking practically about both. the rules that the european union votes on and passes, the member states have unfortunately not fully complied with. in fact, some member states have not yet implemented these regulations at all. so, to say that in the end, i am in favour of the scandinavian model of solving this problem because i believe that in practice it has proven to be the best way of solving the problem.
member of the commission.– mr president, i am here on behalf and in the name of the high representative mrs mogherini. around 70 organisations are currently on this so-called ‘foreign agents register’ which carries many negative consequences. some of those organisations have been forced to close down. the recent law on undesirable foreign and international organisations contributes further to the deterioration of an already difficult environment for civil society organisations. it is yet another obstacle to the development of a free, strong and well- functioning civil society in russia. in this repressive climate, members of civil society who do not agree with the authorities are identified as enemies of the state. this is a clear encroachment on fundamental rights. to name just three recent cases: in june the grozny offices of the committee against torture were destroyed during a staged demonstration. the police stood by without offering protection; in july, members of the golos electoral observation organisation were harassed by the authorities; in the run up to local and regional elections on 13 september 2015, frequent irregularities in the registration of opposition parties have occurred. furthermore, the rights of lgbti persons are being violated and the russian authorities have failed to prevent and prosecute homophobic violence which is tolerated under this so-called law on non-traditional sexual relations among minors. today’s debate focuses on a number of individual cases all involving non-russian citizens: the estonian officer kohver, who was abducted in september 2014 at gunpoint from the estonian side of the border with russia. his right to a fair trial was not respected, and he was sentenced to 15 years in prison in august 2015. the ukrainian military pilot nadya savchenko, who was abducted from eastern ukraine, sent to russia and charged with trespassing and complicity in the murder of two russian generals. her trial resumes next week. the ukrainian activists sentsov and kolchenko: sentsov, a film director, was arrested in may 2014 in crimea and transferred to moscow for alleged association with terrorist acts in crimea. he was sentenced in august 2015 to 20 years in prison. at the same trial, olexandr kolchenko, a ukraine activist arrested in connection with sentsov, was sentenced to ten years in prison. these are flagrant breaches of international law and elementary standards of justice. the european union has called, and will continue to call, for their immediate release as well as for the unconditional release of all ukrainian citizens held illegally in russia. in this respect, i recall this house’s resolution of 30 april this year. the russian authorities should live up to their international and european obligations in the field of human rights. the russian authorities must put an end to the climate of suspicion, hatred and intolerance of diversity of opinion prevalent in russia today. we must stand behind those who protect human rights in russia. we will speak out every time clear breaches of human rights occur. we will continue to raise our concerns in international fora: the united nations, the council of europe and the osce. we will continue to use our financial instruments to support civil society and we will attend the court trials of human rights’ defenders and opposition figures. we will do all this because we are committed to supporting human rights and the development of civil society in russia and lastly, but very importantly, we will continue to discuss those issues directly with the authorities at all levels.
author.– mr president, after decades of conflict and instability, angola continues to face the major challenges of weak governance, human rights abuses and widespread corruption. we are worried by the deteriorating situation when it comes to respect for human rights: persecution of political opponents and journalists is becoming a rule in this country full of contrast, a country which is on the one hand incredibly rich in oil and diamonds, and on the other hand has one of the highest rates of child mortality in the world. it is the corrupt elites who are depriving the people of angola of their basic human rights – access to healthcare, food and education – by stealing public money intended for basic social services. we are seriously concerned about the possible mismanagement of eu development funds by the local authorities, and in this regard we are asking the commission to review the national indicative programme under the 11th edf and to ensure that good governance, respect for human rights and the fight against corruption are the main financing priorities for this fabulously rich country, which suffers also from a fabulously corrupt elite.
written. ‒ i support the investment for jobs and growth report. i believe that we should already be thinking about the implementation of cohesion policy in 2020 and above all about improving the administrative capacity of public authorities, especially at regional and local level, with partnership on both sides. we must aim for jobs and growth, i.e. reducing unemployment in the european union, which is 9.9% and even 24.1% among the younger population.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on investing in jobs and growth: promoting economic, social and territorial cohesion in the union, as i believe that cohesion policy is of paramount importance, both for urban and rural areas and for the various sectors of the economy. it is particularly important to stress that cohesion policy is of paramount importance for some countries of the union in providing the funds needed for investment. cohesion policy is the european union's main instrument, aimed at reducing economic, social and territorial disparities across europe's regions. investments under cohesion policy have significantly mitigated the negative effects of the economic and financial crisis. for all the reasons set out in the report, i conclude that europe needs more cohesion policy and more debate in the european parliament.
written. ‒ cohesion policy investments have significantly mitigated the effects of the economic and financial crisis and provided stability in the regions. according to the latest commission figures, cohesion funding has contributed to the creation of more than 700 000 jobs, the construction of almost 4 000 km of roads and the access of 5 million people to the internet. i supported the report which highlights the importance of cohesion policy as the main instrument for reducing economic, social and territorial disparities between european regions with the aim of sustainable development and competitiveness and for investing in the real economy with a budget of €350 billion. the report calls for the proper implementation of the structural and investment funds, but the achievement of the funds' objectives and the mitigation of negative trends is only possible with active action by member states' governments. what is worrying is the delay in implementing cohesion policy for the period 2014-2020, and we are in the second year of the financial perspective. the commission has also received a number of complaints from the member states concerning the lack of transparency in the application of the rules on the internal market. croatia lacks economic growth due to the government's lack of knowledge of european policies, sound economic governance and administrative capacity and i call on our government and the governments of other member states to regularly discuss cohesion policy instruments and ensure a stable fiscal and economic environment for possible policy action.
written. ‒ at a time when we are facing chronic unemployment and an extremely bad economic situation, we must do everything in our power to invest in creating new jobs that will create new conditions and perspectives for our citizens. promoting and investing in economic, social and cohesion policies in the european union is therefore of paramount importance. these are the main instruments that will help to reduce the disparities between european regions, to strengthen their competitiveness and to create some new opportunities that will contribute to reducing unemployment and creating new jobs, which must be one of our priorities. investing in these policies and their effective implementation will have long-term positive consequences. i therefore support this report, considering that we must make its implementation a priority, but also subordinate the further development of these policies to the needs of the citizens of the european union.
written. ‒ the eu's cohesion policy has a crucial role to play in reducing regional disparities, promoting economic, social and territorial cohesion between member states' regions and supporting job creation, as cohesion policy is the main policy for investment in the real economy at eu level and has been proven to be a tool for growth and jobs in the eu with a budget of more than €350 billion by 2020. i therefore support the rapporteur's proposal to introduce measures for investment in growth and jobs given the recent real decline in public investment in the union of 15% and given that many regions, especially those with demographic challenges, have failed to contribute adequately to the europe 2020 targets, in particular the headline target of 75% employment by 2020, the target of reducing the number of poor people by 20 million and the target of tackling early school leaving. i also see the importance of this proposal in its promotion of strategic objectives with the potential to promote growth, create jobs, social inclusion, environmental potential and climate change potential. high growth rates and regional economic convergence cannot be achieved without good governance, given the need to involve all partners more effectively at national, regional and local level.
written. cohesion has always been a pillar of the european union. the economic crisis that has hit the union has affected both each individual member state and the european union as a whole. the latest cohesion report, published every three years by the european commission to measure progress towards the union's economic, social and territorial cohesion, has shown that we face many challenges in achieving european policy objectives. the commission has also concluded that the union industry is likely to continue to suffer from the effects of the measures. unemployment has risen, and the youth unemployment rate is particularly worrying, reaching 4.85 million, or 20 percent. however, the capacity of cohesion policy to mitigate the negative effects of the crisis has been demonstrated in recent years, and i would particularly stress the importance of the investment plan drawn up by the commission as a first step towards making up for the shortfall in public and private investment in the union. i support the report by mr deutsch and also agree with the recommendation that further efforts should be made to simplify procedures to increase access to and absorption of funds and thereby balance the union's economic and social priorities on the one hand and social inclusion, education and sustainable development on the other.
written. ‒ cohesion investments aim to provide stability to regions by ensuring the flow of funds when national, public and private investments are lacking. however, from a current perspective, the differences between regions have deepened since the economic crisis and the gap is particularly marked between the northern and southern regions of the union. i believe that the quality development of cohesion policy is faced with several problems. the first problem is related to non-payment and implementation of policies. the reason is the significant structural delay in the launch of the cohesion policy programming periods, which was caused by delays in the signing of the partnership agreements and in the adoption of the operational programmes for which the member states are responsible. the second problem, which should also be a long-term objective, is to improve the multi-level governance of cohesion policy, in which local and regional authorities must take on equal administrative responsibility. the third problem i would like to highlight is the lack of initiatives towards developing stronger territorial cooperation, especially by developing cross-border cooperation. i would like to emphasise that the crisis-management performance of europe's border and cross-border regions needs to be improved by smarter, more inclusive and sustainable growth. the identification of key issues and objectives of cohesion policy is also important in the current 2014-2020 period for better preparation for the next programming period.
written. ‒ the clear success of cohesion policy and its funds is evident in the many examples presented in this report. adequate allocation of funds has enabled some member states to make progress even as they were struggling with recession. the existence of unused parts of the funds, which are due in 2015, suggests that the countries in the cohesion policy funds have had a constant friend through the difficult economic period. i support the report because croatia, as the newest member of the european union, has also very quickly seen the advantage of access to such funds. croatia also expects improvements after the european regional development fund has been fully allocated.
written. ‒ i support this report because of the evidence that cohesion policy adopted earlier is delivering results. for example, the european regional development fund (erdf) has recently created almost 600 000 jobs, invested money in 200 000 smes and their projects and 80 000 start-ups. it has funded 22 000 projects dealing with research and business sector cooperation. similarly, the european social fund supported 68 million project participations, ensured that 5.7 million unemployed or inactive people became employed and 400 000 start-ups and people involved in them became self-employed. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's macro-financial assistance to the countries of central and eastern europe, in particular through the european neighbourhood instrument (eni) and the european neighbourhood instrument (eni) and the european neighbourhood instrument (eni) and the european neighbourhood instrument (eni) and the european neighbourhood instrument (eni) and the european neighbourhood instrument (eni) and the european neighbourhood instrument (eni) and the european neighbourhood instrument (eni) and the european neighbourhood instrument (eni) and the european neighbourhood instrument (eni) and the european neighbourhood instrument (eni) and the european neighbourhood instrument (eni) and the european neighbourhood instrument (eni) and the european neighbourhood instrument (eni) and the european neighbourhood instrument (eni) for the period from 2007 to 2015.
written. - as a shadow reporter, i'm satisfied with the final version of the report. in accordance with the treaty on the functioning of the european union, the commission is required to present a report every three years on the progress made towards achieving the union's economic, social and territorial cohesion. accordingly, on 23 july 2014, the european commission adopted a report assessing the previous generation of cohesion policy implementation (2007-2013) and concluding that it had mitigated the impact of the sharp cuts in public investment following the financial and economic crisis. nevertheless, regional inequalities have further deepened as a result of the crisis. the rapporteur analyses first of all the successes and challenges of cohesion policy in the context of the economic and financial crisis and points out that the crisis has further highlighted the role of the commission's cohesion policy in overcoming the crisis and fighting against the fall in public investment and the significant rise in unemployment. i agree that multi-level governance, supported by the partnership principles, as well as sectoral and territorial approaches are the main strengths and levers of this policy. i am pleased that the report incorporates many of the ecr group's amendments which stress the need to build stronger and more effective administrations, particularly in those member states which are least developed. the report also stresses the importance of focusing on efficiency and results orientation and highlights the importance of avoiding politicization in the selection process. that's why i voted yes.
written. ‒ given that the average age of europeans is estimated to be over 50 years by 2050, it is necessary to develop specific targets to ensure the sustainability of the demographic situation. this is one reason why 2012 has been designated the year of active ageing. the concept is well thought out: in addition to lifelong learning and employability for older people, much attention has been paid to the positive role they play in society. this report is a detailed and realistic assessment of the results achieved and i therefore support it.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the european parliament's motion for a resolution on the report on the implementation, results and general evaluation of the european year for active ageing and solidarity between generations 2012 because i believe that the year has raised citizens' awareness of the physical, social and mental well-being of individuals, but also of communities, through various events, campaigns and activities. it is also important to emphasise the benefit of the exchange of best practices between member states on active ageing and the problems faced by older people and on the positive impact of intergenerational solidarity and dialogue. i therefore believe that such activities and policies should continue to be pursued in order to make the european union as prepared as possible to face demographic changes and challenges.
‒ the european union has declared 2012 the year of active ageing and intergenerational solidarity with the aim of creating a culture of ageing that embraces all generations and raising awareness of solidarity towards older generations. the large increase in the proportion of the elderly population is a feature of the democratic movements in the countries of the union and an issue that we must deal with more actively. in croatia, more than 15 percent of the population is over 65 years old and we have 1.2 million pensioners who need to be actively involved in society. i think it's important to highlight the world health organization's definition that says active ageing is "the process of increasing opportunities for healthy living, participation in society and safety with the goal of improving quality of life as people age". i supported the report by mr kukana, who praised the initiatives on active ageing and intergenerational solidarity and cited their achievements and results. i particularly welcome two important achievements: the development of the active ageing index and the guiding principles on active ageing and intergenerational solidarity. the union's contribution to the union's budget for the financial year 2012 is estimated at eur 875 million.
‒ the european union has declared 2012 the european year of active ageing and solidarity between generations. the commission should be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 290 tfeu concerning the establishment of a european agency for the operational management of large-scale it systems in the area of freedom, security and justice, in particular by means of implementing acts. joint cooperation between young and older population is particularly emphasised in order to foster solidarity and mutual understanding between them. the european year of ageing was intended to raise general awareness of the values of active ageing and to highlight the contribution of older generations to society in general. she also wanted to emphasize the fight against age discrimination, which should prevail over all these age stereotypes and remove barriers in society. it is vital to instill proper values in society and to fight ageism that carries with it negative stereotypes. our parents, grandparents, neighbours and all elderly people deserve to age with dignity and to be respected in their human dignity.
written. ‒ i support the report on the implementation, results and overall assessment of the european year of active ageing and intergenerational solidarity 2012, with the aim of creating a culture of active ageing in europe that must be based on a society for all age groups. one in five croatian citizens is over 65 years old, which poses a challenge to the economy, social care, pension funds and healthcare system, and it is predicted that by 2050 as much as 30% of the croatian population will be over 65 years old, a trend that is evident in most member states. the european year has increased the number of initiatives to promote active ageing in the member states, and has also helped to improve national active ageing policy programmes and stimulate the exchange of good practice between countries. active ageing enables people to age in good health and to participate actively in society, to be more fulfilled in the workplace and to be more involved in society, while at the same time being adequately protected, safe and cared for when they need it. the report also highlights the problem of age-related prejudice, discrimination and stereotyping and calls on member states to take measures to eradicate them.
written. the european year of active ageing and solidarity between generations aims to promote awareness raising about the value of active ageing and active ageing policies at union and member state level and among all public and private sector stakeholders, as the average age in the eu is expected to be over 50 by 2050. the report is of particular importance as the eu is facing unprecedented demographic, social and structural changes that need to be addressed without delay, as the general ageing of the population is accompanied by an increase in social care needs, health needs and care needs for older people and their families, and the long-term quality and sustainability of public services in the eu will depend largely on the measures taken over the next few years. i agree that active ageing and intergenerational solidarity are key to achieving the overall and individual objectives of the europe 2020 strategy and to creating a competitive, successful and inclusive europe. the success of active ageing policy is strongly linked to the effectiveness of the range of policies on non-discrimination, social protection, inclusion and public health that are shaped throughout the lives of eu citizens and workers. in this context, intergenerational solidarity is one of the fundamental principles of human society, and the achievement of the goals of society requires the life experience and commitment and ideas of all generations. i therefore support the report by mr cocan.
written. ‒ this explanation of the vote arises as a criticism of the existing system of evaluating the work of meps in the european parliament solely on the basis of the statistical number of parliamentary activities promoted in croatia, which does not actually reflect the actual quality and quantity of work, efficiency and above all the success of the representative action.
written. ‒ i support the report because the objectives of the european year of active ageing and intergenerational solidarity have been achieved. the objectives for that european year, 2012, were to raise general awareness of the value of active ageing and its different dimensions, to stimulate debate in order to exchange information and develop mutual learning, to provide a framework for commitment and concrete action, and to combat age discrimination in order to overcome age-related stereotypes and barriers. it is good that many strategies and plans have been adopted in the various member states and the results are visible. these policies and objectives should be continued in the future. the age limit for retirement should be raised only in exceptional circumstances, while member states still need to combat age discrimination by various measures, in particular in labour markets, and to work towards better social integration of older people and policies that promote lifelong learning for all.
written. ‒ aware of the fact that the population is ageing rapidly, we emphasise the importance of this report in order to react in a timely manner to the issuing of guidelines and to adequately address any difficulties that may arise in the population as they age. it is very important to offer the population a clear and honest trend and a view that their ageing does not mean exclusion from socioeconomic spheres. i support this report, as i also stress that many of the decisions set out in the 'european year 2012' project have not yet been fully implemented in all eu countries.
written. ‒ this report is a response to the commission's 2012 communication, which was created with the aim of promoting active ageing and intergenerational solidarity. i support the theses in the report that promote specific, generally acceptable objectives such as raising general awareness of active ageing, stimulating debate and developing the principle of mutual learning, proposing a framework for future commitments and concrete actions, and promoting activities that help to combat age discrimination. however, as the concept of active ageing and intergenerational solidarity is intertwined with several policy areas, such as pensions, health and long-term care, employment and adult education, the report unfortunately infringes the principle of subsidiarity in many segments. while i strongly support the idea of active ageing itself (emphasising that it must be voluntary, i.e. that older people should not be forced to remain in employment), the report's character is in certain parts too restrictive and deeply intrudes into the exclusive competences of individual member states of the union, for example by calling for the guarantee of adequate pension income or the right to a dignified life in old age, or a call for the european commission to implement a social investment package. i fully agree with the proposals and objectives of the report, but what i cannot accept is the failure to respect the principle of subsidiarity in the way they are implemented. that is why i abstained.
written. ‒ a sustainable european mobility policy must be based on a wide range of policy measures for a cost-effective transition to the least environmentally harmful and most energy-efficient modes of transport. but transport remains almost entirely dependent on fossil fuels and is the only sector in which greenhouse gas emissions have increased in the last 25 years, with growth in emissions that, had it not been for the economic crisis, could have been even higher. i support this report because it reflects the reality of the implementation of eu transport policy.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the european parliament's motion for a resolution on the implementation of the 2011 white paper on transport: 'review of the state of play and the way forward towards sustainable mobility' because it is clear that there has been a lot of progress in this sector. however, changes and reforms are still needed to keep european transport and logistics competitive. air transport, for example, faces challenges and threats from the internal and external markets, while greenhouse gas emissions are still too high. the commission notes that the aid is granted to the following undertakings: i therefore believe that it is necessary to insist on an integrated transport system and to invest in new technologies that will help the transport sector and mobility to become safer, more efficient, more reliable and 'greener'.
written. ‒ the white paper on transport sets out an ambitious plan to transform the european transport system and create a genuine single european transport area. its main objective is to increase mobility, remove barriers and promote growth and employment. at the same time, the proposals aim to reduce oil imports to europe and reduce carbon emissions from transport by 60% by 2050. the transport sector is the driving force behind the european union's economy. it employs some 10 million people and accounts for around 5% of gdp and as such should remain at the forefront of generating further economic growth and jobs and promoting competitiveness, sustainable development and territorial cohesion. i supported the report by mr van de camp as it is essential for the sustainable development of european transport and promotes the introduction of alternative fuels to reduce the dependence of transport on fossil fuels, improve air quality and reduce greenhouse gas emissions. transport is a complex system based on the interaction of infrastructure, vehicles and information technology, rules and behaviour. only through joint action by citizens and industry at local, national and regional levels can change be achieved.
written. ‒ as the transport sector is the engine of the european union's economy, employing some 10 million people, accounting for around 5% of gdp and should remain at the forefront of generating further economic growth and creating and preserving jobs, i supported the implementation of the 2011 white paper on transport. i believe that even more investment is needed in the development of european transport, as well as transport infrastructure, in order to maintain the competitiveness of europe, which is the world leader in production and transport. it is also necessary to move towards the least environmentally harmful and most energy-efficient modes of transport, in particular those using renewable energy sources. the white paper on transport provides a framework for implementing concrete reforms with a view to establishing a more competitive and efficient transport system. i therefore supported the report on its implementation in the hope that it would open up wider perspectives and contribute to economic growth and employment.
written. ‒ the white paper on transport sets out an ambitious plan to transform the european transport system and create a truly single european transport area. the transport sector is the driving force of the european union's economy, employing some ten million people and accounting for around 5% of gdp. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the new rules and to monitor the implementation of the new rules and regulations, including the implementation of the new rules on the internal market, and will continue to monitor the implementation of the new rules and regulations. measures towards faster mobility would stimulate further economic growth and job creation and promote competitiveness, sustainable development and territorial cohesion, since trade is the foundation for the free movement of people, goods and services on which the single market is based and since free movement is at the same time a powerful driver of union integration and a key factor in the implementation of european industry and trade.
written. in 2011, in implementing the white paper on transport, the commission presented an ambitious future strategy for the transport system with the aim of increasing mobility, removing major obstacles in key areas and promoting growth and employment. solving the big problems identified in the white paper means meeting very difficult goals by 2050. transport is a complex system based on the interaction of infrastructure, vehicles, information technology, rules and behaviour. all of these elements must be part of a shared vision for change. the changes proposed in the white paper should not only be seen as an opportunity to increase efficiency but also as a necessary condition for maintaining the competitiveness of the european transport and logistics sector. the objective of the review is not to lower the ambition of the 2011 targets, but to modernise the strategies in order to achieve a successful outcome. the transport sector is a driving force of the eu economy, employing some 10 million people and accounting for around 5% of gdp, and should remain at the forefront of generating further economic growth and jobs, and promoting competitiveness and sustainable development. the commission will continue to support the development of the european transport network, in particular through the development of a european transport network for the benefit of all citizens, including the development of a european transport network for the benefit of all citizens.
written. ‒ this explanation of the vote arises as a criticism of the existing system of evaluating the work of meps in the european parliament solely on the basis of the statistical number of parliamentary activities promoted in croatia, which does not actually reflect the actual quality and quantity of work, efficiency and above all the success of the representative action.
written. ‒ i support the report because transport issues, strategies and plans need to be planned a few years in advance and with a vision, as it is a complex system that depends on many factors and is very important in everyday life. the 2011 white paper is an ambitious roadmap and strategy for a future competitive transport system, aiming to increase mobility, erase borders in some key areas and promote economic growth and employment, and these objectives should be pursued further. it is also necessary to reduce europe's dependence on imported oil and carbon, which are still overused in transport. the commission should be able to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 290 tfeu concerning the definition of the concept of 'transport' and the definition of the concept of 'transport' in the context of this regulation. this report and the strategy maintain the 2011 targets and work towards achieving them as quickly and as well as possible. therefore, i support the report.
written. ‒ believing that transport is a highly productive, purposeful and representative sector reflecting the strength of european policies, it is important to allow the necessary changes and upgrades to the national and international road system in advance, before european roads become obsolete. i support this initiative to further build the system to enable better and faster transport connectivity, more mobile and qualified staff responsible for maintaining the transport system and to maintain the enviable level of economic viability of this branch of european policy as stated in the 2011 white paper on transportˮ. this report is in line with the policies of the european union and, through a holistic approach to the problem, supports the growth and development of the transport sector, greater technological advancement and maintenance of transport infrastructures, environmental awareness, and sound legal regulation.
written. ‒ i supported the report which analyses and assesses the implementation of the ambitious objectives of the transport white paper and encourages the achievement of a more efficient, sustainable, competitive and integrated transport system. although this analysis and the supplementary are already launched halfway through the period foreseen for achieving the objectives of the white paper on transport, i consider this a key step in the timely achievement of those objectives. in view of the state of croatia's roads, i strongly support the emphasis on the need to eliminate the differences between the level of infrastructure development and maintenance, especially between the eastern and western parts of the european union. the commission has also concluded that the aid granted to the airlines concerned is compatible with the internal market within the meaning of article 107 (3) (c) of the treaty. in addition, i believe that putting innovation at the service of transport users and putting people at the heart of transport policy should ultimately lead to increased safety and improved quality of transport services.
mr president, i have supported this report because it is clear that after so much talk about creating equal opportunities between men and women, we have not really moved from a dead end. moreover, every day, women are pushing their own boundaries, breaking records, creating new opportunities, but they are still perceived as less "worth" than men. they are shut out of the great doors of the business world and advancement, although they are far more educated than the men who pass through those doors without any problems. the glass ceiling is built on prejudice, and prejudice actually created society as a whole. so we need to do everything we can to, first of all, encourage women to have faith in themselves, to have confidence that they can achieve a lot, that they can successfully balance work and family and be in leadership positions. we need to ensure that women and men have equal conditions in terms of employment and work, the pay they receive for their work and promotion. the solution is not in quotas, but in changing the perception of women's value to the work they do.
written. ‒ although women make up 60% of higher education graduates, they unfortunately occupy less than 10% of the top positions in universities. the objectives we set ourselves in horizon 2020 cannot be achieved without the positive measures proposed in this report.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the european parliament's motion for a resolution on women's scientific and academic careers and the 'glass ceiling' they face because i support equality between women and men in all areas, including their scientific and academic careers. further efforts are needed to achieve this in full and to overcome the so-called 'glass ceiling' and finally eliminate unjustified and unfair discrimination. i also support programmes, campaigns and activities aimed at promoting gender equality and the equal status of women in society.
written. the glass ceiling is a term coined 20 years ago by the wall street journal to describe the barriers women face in advancing their careers and preventing them from reaching the top of the corporate hierarchy. gender equality is a fundamental principle of the european union. recent statistics indicate that women face many obstacles in their professional development. some of these are motherhood and family responsibilities, the differentiation of 'male and female' professions, the wage gap, lack of ambition (lack of self-confidence), unequal access to professions and sexual abuse of women. women are particularly hampered in the fields of science, technology, engineering and mathematics, which are considered "male". given that gender equality is a fundamental prerequisite for the full enjoyment of human rights for women and girls and is fundamental to their empowerment and the achievement of a sustainable and inclusive society, the eu should encourage member states to recognise the potential of quality vocational guidance and training to encourage girls to pursue education in stem fields. that is why i supported the report of mrs wozemberg.
written. ‒ the clear disparities in the low percentage of women among university staff and the high percentage of women among the student population, combined with a number of other elements (from the pay gap to the generally low number of women in management positions in the public and private sectors), clearly indicate that we are far from the equality society that the union is striving for. stereotypes are often a useful tool in social networking, but the moment they turn into prejudices that are used as an excuse to underestimate and impose unjustified expectations, they become a gray area that we must fight against vigorously. i strongly support the report by mrs wozemberg which calls on member states to provide incentives for scientific institutes and universities to introduce and implement gender equality plans, but which also clearly recognises that this is a fight in which the private sector, the media, the entire academic community and the civil sector must also be involved. the equality of women, and especially in the academic world, which has served as a progressive force for centuries and which today keeps europe as the leading social and economic force in the world, must be a goal to which all sections of society aspire, to which all sections of society work.
written. ‒ this explanation of the vote arises as a criticism of the existing system of evaluating the work of meps in the european parliament solely on the basis of the statistical number of parliamentary activities promoted in croatia, which does not actually reflect the actual quality and quantity of work, efficiency and above all the success of the representative action.
written. ‒ i support this report because i believe that every woman should be given equal opportunities in any sphere of social and academic life. we've seen a lot of these campaigns over the years, but it seems that we still have to fight for women's rights in the business world, and also here where it's science and universities, so in higher academic institutions and institutions. despite these campaigns, the current situation in gender equality is still far from satisfactory and therefore there is a need to continue to work on strategies that will lead to improvements in the status of women in the business world and in the environment. for all these reasons, i support the measures in this report and believe that they will lead to greater equality between women and men, especially in universities and in the world of science.
written. ‒ i support this report because i believe it is of the utmost importance to promote gender equality in science. as science is crucial to the european economy, it needs teams of scientists capable of carrying out the research needed to increase productivity and competitiveness. gender equality is key to achieving a sustainable and inclusive society. i also point out that in many countries there is a shortage of women scientists because of inadequate education systems in which the value of women scientists is often neglected. campaigns need to be directed not only at women but also at men, as they consciously or unconsciously repeat gender stereotypes that place women in an institutional barrier to advancing in their scientific careers. women are still rarely present in the highest academic and managerial positions in scientific institutions and universities, although positive changes have been made in gender equality in academia in recent years. we are talking about the existence of a 'glass ceiling' - an invisible obstacle based on prejudice that prevents women from reaching leadership positions.
mr. president, i consider the adoption of this report a defeat for democracy and the rule of law, and i voted against it. these ideologies were supposed to be left in some past time, and the socialists have re-imposed them on us. worst of all, they did it under the guise of protecting children's rights. this report deprives parents of the right to bring up their own children and member states of the right to determine their own curricula. so we have a right to ask ourselves what's next. and we all have to ask ourselves whether meps even know the views and values of their constituents. i voted against this report because it goes against the europe i believe in. i will continue to advocate a europe in which there must be room for the true human values that this report denies.
written. ‒ the report focuses on the fact that 30 million primary school-age girls worldwide are out of the education system. in order to overcome this situation, a series of positive measures are proposed to be implemented through european funds and programmes. education is seen as a prerequisite for gender equality, as statistics show, for example, that uneducated girls are more vulnerable to domestic violence. lifelong learning programmes are supported and aim to reduce the gender pay gap for the same work. i support this report.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on empowering girls through education in the eu, as education and training for girls and women are key factors for their empowerment at social, cultural and professional levels as well as for the full enjoyment of all other social, economic, cultural and political rights and ultimately for the prevention of violence against women and girls. in this respect, i support the general recommendations as well as the specific recommendations concerning education in this very well-prepared and comprehensive report. the recommendations can contribute to further improving gender equality and respect for human rights. particular attention should be paid to the implementation and monitoring of the proposed measures. i agree that in the area of education, which is underestimated in some countries of the union, independent bodies should monitor and assess progress and local, regional, national and european policy-makers should be regularly informed of all measures taken and progress made in this area.
written. ‒ the education and training of girls and women is an important european value, a fundamental human right and a key factor in empowering girls and women socially, culturally and professionally. society can be transformed through education that contributes to the full enjoyment of all other social, economic, cultural and political rights and ultimately prevents violence against women and girls. education should serve to develop girls into conscious, balanced persons who respect other people and who have the capacity for empathy and mutual respect, and should be encouraged with a view to preventing discrimination and the rejection of gender roles during the socialization phases of childhood and adolescence. while i encourage gender equality, i disagree with the report because it does not respect the principle of subsidiarity as a fundamental principle of the european union. the report also violates important international treaties, such as the universal declaration of human rights and the convention for the protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms, and, finally, does not fall within the competence of the femm.
written. ‒ i support the report on empowering girls through education in the european union, which deals mainly with the devastating fact that as many as 30 million primary school-age girls worldwide are outside the education system. as many as 17 percent of the world's adults, including two thirds of women, cannot read or write. education is a prerequisite for children to develop into aware individuals who respect others and a means of preventing discrimination, aggression and peer violence. in order to overcome this situation, a series of positive measures are proposed to be implemented through european funds and programmes. education is also a prerequisite for gender equality, because statistics show that uneducated girls are more vulnerable to domestic violence, but also less likely to stand up for themselves and their rights, which puts us in a vicious cycle of discrimination that is repeated from generation to generation. i support the thesis that education is the foundation of responsible citizenship that guarantees gender equality and empowerment of girls, and most importantly, a human right and the right of every child that should be free and available to their children without discrimination, regardless of their residence status.
written. ‒ this explanation of the vote arises as a criticism of the existing system of evaluating the work of meps in the european parliament solely on the basis of the statistical number of parliamentary activities promoted in croatia, which does not actually reflect the actual quality and quantity of work, efficiency and above all the success of the representative action.
written. ‒ i voted against this report because, under the lisbon treaty, it is a matter of competence of the member states and there is therefore no need for the european parliament to interfere with the competence of individual member states.
written. ‒ the report goes deep into areas that are outside the remit of the committee on women's rights and gender equality - primarily education, which is the subject of interference by individual member states of the union and in which the union has competence only to take action to support, coordinate or complement the actions of individual member states, but not to harmonise, which is precisely what this report is trying to do. in particular, under the guise of gender equality, universal and generally accepted principles such as equal access to education and the fight against discrimination, there is a subtle attempt to introduce the promotion of gender ideology in sex education into the school curriculum of all member states of the union and to make it compulsory not only in primary education but also in tertiary education. the report calls on all member states to eliminate sexism in school textbooks and to mobilise all teachers to take action against negative gender stereotypes. the member states are also invited to adapt their national laws in the areas of media and publicity in order to serve the same purpose as education. i consider this continuing and scandalous practice of imposing a specific ideology to be extremely undemocratic and dangerous, and i therefore expressly oppose this and all past and future attempts to do so.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the european parliament's motion for a resolution on the european economic area and switzerland: obstacles to the full realisation of the internal market, because i believe that the enlargement of the single market is of key importance for the european union, its member states and third countries, and that the eea ensures the integrity of such a market. it is necessary, however, to improve the implementation of the relevant single market legislation and to make technical adjustments while respecting the principles of fairness and reciprocity. i believe that the established relations between the eea member states, the eu and others go beyond the creation of a single market and economic prosperity, and also contribute to overall progress and stability.
written. ‒ the purpose of the european economic area (eea) is to extend the eu's internal market to the european free trade association (efta) member states. the eea agreement is a key element of economic growth and the most far-reaching instrument for extending the single market to third countries. it is believed to have proven to be a stable and effective agreement that works well and ensures the integrity of the single market in the long term. the strong relationship between the eu, eea and efta states and switzerland is considered to go beyond economic integration and the expansion of the single market and to contribute to stability and prosperity for the benefit of all citizens and businesses, including small and medium-sized enterprises. the four efta member states (iceland, liechtenstein, norway and switzerland) are important trading partners of the european union. norway is the eu's fifth most important trading partner in terms of trade volume. relations between the eu and the three efta member states (iceland, liechtenstein and norway) are based on the european economic area (eea), which allows for participation in the internal market. i supported the report by mr schwab because it stresses the importance of the proper functioning of the single market in order to achieve a level playing field and create new jobs. i welcome the participation of the european economic area countries and switzerland in the european union's internal market, which will contribute to growth, competitiveness and job creation.
written. ‒ the eea agreement is the most far-reaching and comprehensive instrument for extending the single market to third countries and has also proven to be a stable and effective agreement that works well and ensures the integrity of the single market in the long term. the strong relationship between the eu, eea and efta states and switzerland goes beyond economic integration and the expansion of the single market and contributes to stability and prosperity for the benefit of all citizens and businesses, including small and medium-sized enterprises. the eu-switzerland relationship has become stronger, better and more durable, and has contributed to peace, prosperity and growth in europe over the past decades. these relations can be deepened to the benefit of both sides by a comprehensive revision of sectoral agreements in full compliance with eu principles and contribute to a number of common features and interests. however, obstacles such as the restriction of freedom of movement (one of the eu's fundamental freedoms), the suspension of negotiations on switzerland's participation in the erasmus+ programme, the delayed implementation of the directive on the recognition of professional qualifications, undermine the strong bilateral relationship that has existed and still exists between the eu and switzerland. considering that it is important to continue to implement eu law in order to maintain the strength of the european single market, i support this report.
written. the european economic area (eea) agreement is the most important element of the eu's economic growth through the extension of the single market to third countries. in order to make such growth possible, an effective single market is needed, which can only be achieved by implementing legislation on the same. the commission has also taken into account the fact that the swiss citizens' initiative on the introduction of the new measures is not yet in force, and that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the introduction of the new measures. the abovementioned agreement between the swiss confederation and the eu/efta countries on the free movement and residence of persons of those countries and on the recognition of professional diplomas, the right to acquire immovable property and the coordination of social security systems has been supplemented from year to year and the latest version also includes a section on the rights of croatian citizens. i welcome the introduction of measures by the swiss confederation to avoid discrimination against croatian citizens, but i also support the report by mr schwaba in which he stresses the need to ratify the protocol on the extension of the agreement on the free movement of persons to the republic of croatia, given that the republic of croatia has been a full member of the eu for more than two years now and must therefore be included in all agreements.
written. ‒ this explanation of the vote arises as a criticism of the existing system of evaluating the work of meps in the european parliament solely on the basis of the statistical number of parliamentary activities promoted in croatia, which does not actually reflect the actual quality and quantity of work, efficiency and above all the success of the representative action.
written. ‒ i support this report because switzerland, as a member of the european free trade association (efta), is an important trading partner of the european union. in fact, switzerland is the eu's fourth most important trading partner in terms of trade. the european economic area, or the single market, whose creation would lead to even greater economic growth and europe's recovery from recession and crisis, is also of great importance to the european union, but this requires the implementation of the single single market legislation in an adequate manner, while also ensuring good implementation in order to reap the full benefits of such a market throughout europe. in order to achieve all this, the obstacles that now exist must be eliminated and the full achievement of the internal market must be pursued, and this report proposes that this should be achieved, and i have therefore supported it.
written. ‒ i support the report that monitors the implementation of the rules of the agreement on the european economic area. the report is primarily aimed at switzerland, but also covers other countries in the agreement on the european economic area. after switzerland unilaterally held a controversial referendum on immigration quotas, it became clear that the same violated the provisions of bilateral agreements with the eu. given that the same referendum was held at a time when it became clear that the republic of croatia should join the european union's borderless area, we cannot help but see the unilateral approach towards the citizens of our country. not wishing to interfere in the internal politics of any country, especially those outside the eu circle, we express the hope that swiss economic policy will not be backwarded by the implementation of this type of policy. the report also properly covers other countries with which the european union wishes to have an unhindered economic policy and economic cooperation area, and insists on the removal of all obstacles to the unhindered movement and mobility of potential labour and citizens within the european economic area.
written. ‒ the report refers primarily to the obstacles to the full realisation of the internal market between the european union and switzerland. the commission has also received a number of requests for exemptions from the general rules on the free movement of goods, which are not yet available in the union. in the light of the above, the commission considers that the measures adopted by croatia to prevent the introduction of unilateral measures are in breach of the principle of proportionality. the commission notes that the swiss authorities have not provided any evidence that the measures taken by the commission to prevent the entry of croatian nationals into the eu are in line with the principles of the treaty on the functioning of the european union. while i wholeheartedly and fully support the right of every sovereign state to respect the result of the referendum, i.e. the will of its citizens, in this case unfortunately there was direct discrimination against only croatian citizens, which i cannot support. the swiss authorities have also failed to respect the relevant provisions of the bilateral agreement on the free movement of persons, which unfortunately has prolonged the direct discrimination against citizens of the republic of croatia for an unlimited period. that is why i have voted in favour of the report.
written. ‒ some eu countries have long faced the problem of refugees and migrants seeking to enter the union. their motives and their fates are not the same, some fleeing war, some from poverty, some from persecution, but they all think the eu is the promised land. but the eu is not a country; it is a community of states, some of which are transit stations for refugees and migrants, and some of which are destinations. until the causes that drive these people to europe are remedied, they will come. until libya gets a stable and functioning government and syria peace, they'll come in their thousands. at the moment, the eu is dealing with the consequences of these problems, but it should be dealing with the causes. the eu and its governments must always bear in mind that refugees and migrants are people who need to be treated humanely. we must respect our own laws and international conventions to provide sanctuary to those in danger. that is why i support this report and hope that we will behave in this crisis in a manner befitting the community of advanced nations.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the european parliament resolution on migration and refugees in europe because this current, first and foremost humanitarian crisis that is taking place needs to be discussed and decided on at this european level as well. the eu needs to respond quickly to such problems, to update good solutions already adopted to new circumstances and to address implementation at member state level. the problem of migrants and refugees is a common european problem and solutions should be sought in this context. i condemn and oppose all initiatives that seek to segregate and differentiate migrants and refugees on various grounds or to make the eu a 'fortress' to be defended from those who seek above all the possibility of a normal life for their families. particular attention should be paid to action against criminal groups that have turned this problem into a profit opportunity. europe needs more solidarity, more compassion and more joint action.
the european parliament resolution on migration and refugees in europe expresses regret for all those who have lost their lives on their way to europe and solidarity with the victims of the conflict. the european union is facing many challenges at the moment, but as european commission president jean-claude juncker stressed in his first state of the union address, migration and refugees are the union's greatest test and must be our priority. i supported a resolution welcoming the european commission's initiative to relocate large numbers of asylum seekers with operational and financial assistance to member states. it is our duty to show solidarity with refugees fleeing conflict and to take on equal responsibility in all member states. we don't need to close borders, we need to manage them effectively because the people who want to cross them are looking for a safe and democratic society. we call on all member states to adapt legislation as soon as possible, to implement a common asylum system and to strengthen the union's role in finding a long-term and sustainable solution to the conflict.
written. ‒ in the european parliament these days, there is talk of the refugee crisis, there is talk of masses of refugees, of an invasion of migrants, of a metastatic tumor, there is talk of building walls, there is a clear awareness that the issue of positioning towards migrants can affect the outcome of elections, there is a summing up of the costs of helping migrants. like it's a mosquito bite or we're trying to protect ourselves from leprosy. we are rightly concerned that there are fraudsters among the refugees, but that does not diminish our responsibility to people who are fleeing in fear for their lives. and that's what we forgot -- that it's about people, people who just want to stay alive, who want life for their children, who want to breathe clean air instead of smoke from explosions, who want to fall asleep and wake up without fear. we must give them a new life among us or a safe life in their homeland. but first we have to start looking at them as people, not as a problem. this is a challenge to our humanity.
written. i support the motion for a resolution on migration and refugees in europe. the migration crisis is the biggest problem facing the european union at the moment. the seriousness of the crisis is shown by the recent figures from iom and frontex, which show that almost 250 000 migrants arrived in the eu by sea in 2015. the number of illegal crossings of the eu's external borders along the western balkans route is 102 342. such numbers do indeed require an urgent response from the union. i therefore welcome the recent proposal from the european commission to implement the urgent relocation of asylum seekers currently in greece, italy and hungary. i also support the idea of establishing a permanent and binding mechanism for the resettlement of refugees which will certainly help us in future crises. the european commission's measures are only part of a comprehensive package of programmes and measures, which also includes a proposal to adopt a 'common european list of safe countries'. the list is necessary to enable member states to focus their reception capacities on those most in need of protection. the last point i would like to make is the need to find the cause of this migration crisis and to find sustainable solutions to the conflicts in the union's neighbourhood, because what is happening there has repercussions for us, the citizens of the european union, and this migration crisis has shown us that.
written. ‒ croatia, like most countries in south-east europe, is facing the pressure of the refugee crisis in the european union. the refugee crisis has been affecting neighbouring countries, namely macedonia, serbia and hungary, for the past three months, and has put croatia in a situation where a high level of preparedness is needed. on this issue, i have already reacted on 14 august this year as a co-signer of the letters sent by meps to the european commission requesting the immediate activation of the civil protection mechanism in order to help the member states most affected by the wave of migrants and asylum seekers. i call on the commission to strengthen and unify the common european asylum system as soon as possible, in order to ensure that all member states properly implement eu legislation and to ensure that common effective, consistent and humane standards are applied across the union. i also call on the commission and the member states to ensure, in the 2016 budget and in the provisions of the multiannual financial framework (mff), a significant degree of room for manoeuvre and readiness to allocate funds with a view to enabling better quality support to the european asylum support office. in conclusion, i believe that an international conference on the refugee crisis, involving all the key international actors, should be convened with the aim of developing a common global humanitarian strategy.
written. ‒ we support the creation of a resolution that would resolve as soon as possible the current issue of accepting refugees, their accommodation and ensuring decent living conditions for all people who see refuge and salvation in europe. the issue of migration is testing once again the european union's ability to deal with problems that require quick, immediate solutions. while the institutions of the european union are a place where different opinions and proposals can be heard, as leaders of a new, different and better world, we must not allow this diversity of opinions to prevent us from carrying out the tasks we are obliged to do, not only because of the humanitarian and political values we stand for, but also because of the moral implications of the migration and refugee problem. we hope that the resolution will represent a step forward in relation to the current situation in the member states in terms of the reception and care of refugees. but we also hope that the eu institutions will address the causes of this problem as soon as possible, namely wars and conflicts in the middle east and africa, so that refugees from that part of the world are given the conditions to stay in their homes and so that their migration is a matter of choice, not of coercion as it is now.
written. ‒ europe has a moral duty to help the displaced who are crying out for refuge from the horrors of war. our leading role in the world must not be based on economic and scientific achievement alone, but also on a higher degree of humanity and empathy. i think we're all in agreement on that. but i am very unhappy with the messages that the union is sending at the moment because i have the feeling that certain political circles are using this terrible situation to promote their policies on importing cheap labour and changing the demographic structure of europe. those people are clearly unable to understand that the best way we can help the syrian people is to use all of our military and diplomatic capabilities to stop the war in their homeland and then help them build the society they once had. all that remains is a fire-fighting measure that, given the increased security threat in these chaotic conditions, could very easily cost both syrian refugees and their european hosts.
written. ‒ the israeli-palestinian conflict continues to have an impact on the entire middle east, although it has recently been overshadowed by the crisis in syria and the rise of the so-called islamic state. following the initiative of us secretary of state john kerry in 2013 2014 and the war in the gaza strip in the summer of 2014, the middle east peace process between israelis and palestinians has stalled. i call on the vice-president, high representative mogherini, to use effectively all existing eu instruments, including positive and negative incentives, that allow for influence on israelis and palestinians to achieve a two-state solution.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution on the eu's role in the middle east peace process as establishing peace in the middle east remains a key priority for the international community and a necessary factor for regional stability and security. the impact of events in the middle east and the european union itself is particularly evident today. i believe that the role of the eu and the member state must be stronger in a diplomatic sense. new diplomatic initiatives are needed, such as oslo 2. the eu needs to bring together all partners willing to engage in such a new diplomatic initiative to achieve results. in this context, a process should be pursued to resolve the israeli-palestinian conflict, as an important part of the overall middle east crisis, through the creation of two states.
the european parliament resolution on the role of the union in the middle east peace process reiterates the call for increased efforts to bring peace to the middle east and condemns the continuing violence. peace in the middle east is even more necessary at a time when conflicts in the region are increasing and the signed nuclear agreement with iran has created a favourable environment for the continuation of the peace process. the european union has backed a solution that recognizes the existence of two states with 1967 borders and with jerusalem as the capital of both states that recognize each other and coexist in peace and security. since the resolution encourages the continuation of the peace process with a view to the implementation of such a solution, i supported it.
written. ‒ in the light of the discussions on the continuation of the middle east peace process, i would like to point out that i voted in favour of this resolution and strongly support the continuation of the peace process. i regret that an amendment was not adopted that clearly emphasizes the importance of the two-state concept for two peoples. it is stated in pursuit of the fulfillment of the political aspirations of two peoples - each in its own country. this also applies to the preservation of the full rights of these peoples as a minority in both states. i believe that the inclusion of such a solution could have sent a stronger positive message to both sides and strengthened the eu's role as a fair mediator. ms. mogherini and the eu have acquired through their dedicated negotiations an authority that could help resolve this conflict. the aim of the peace process must be to ensure peace and stability for the people of israel and palestine and to establish trust between them, including through a committed fight against corruption.
written. ‒ this explanation of the vote arises as a criticism of the existing system of evaluating the work of meps in the european parliament solely on the basis of the statistical number of parliamentary activities promoted in croatia, which does not actually reflect the actual quality and quantity of work, efficiency and above all the success of the representative action.
written. ‒ the middle east peace process has been disrupted, despite the enormous efforts of the international community led by the european union. but these efforts must not stop. there is no alternative to direct negotiations and cooperation between the opposing parties, and the eu must be the initiator of these negotiations. the european union must continue to be a stabilizer of relations and a neutral factor in the interest of laying the foundations for peace processes. we support the report, recognizing that peace can only be achieved through an agreement between the opposing parties, and not through unilateral moves and actions that threaten the security and lives of civilians in the middle east. i hope that the frequent initiatives of the eu institutions will change the attitudes and actions of all those involved in the destabilisation of the middle east in the near future and will encourage a clear political commitment to peaceful coexistence.
written. ‒ i would like to express my concern about the systematic deterioration of human rights in belarus, the denial of the right to freedom of expression, assembly and association, and the unfair registration process for civil society organisations. furthermore, belarus is the only european country that still carries out the death penalty. in that country, human rights defenders, civil society activists continue to be intimidated, pressured, and raided by police. given all these undemocratic phenomena and actions, the upcoming presidential election will have an easily predictable and unmistakable outcome.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution on the situation in belarus as it is necessary to improve the cooperation relations between the eu and belarus. in this regard, the progressive progress in respecting political rights, freedom of speech and opinion, freedom of the media and the operation of the non-governmental sector should be supported. improvements have also been made in the release of some political prisoners. the role of belarus in the de-escalation of the situation in ukraine should also be taken into account. progress has also been made in eu-belarus economic cooperation. in this regard, the commission should be supported in continuing to critically assess the situation and to continue its engagement, which would contribute to the further development of democratic processes and to increasing the level of respect for various aspects of human rights.
the european union is ready to improve relations and cooperation with belarus when conditions in that country allow for respect for democratic standards, the rule of law and respect for fundamental human rights. the recent release of six political prisoners, opposition activists, is a positive sign. the eu is also committed to the development of a common foreign and security policy, including the establishment of a common foreign and security policy. the eu also remains ready to expand business and trade links with belarus, and the country's membership of the eurasian union is not incompatible with such measures. the commission has also taken steps to ensure that the visa facilitation regime is fully implemented in all member states. what is devastating is the existence of the death penalty, which is contrary to european values and human dignity.
written. ‒ this explanation of the vote arises as a criticism of the existing system of evaluating the work of meps in the european parliament solely on the basis of the statistical number of parliamentary activities promoted in croatia, which does not actually reflect the actual quality and quantity of work, efficiency and above all the success of the representative action.
written. ‒ i support this resolution because it is important to encourage democratic moves and initiatives in belarus. so far, many things that are happening in belarus are unacceptable and not in line with the policy of the european union or with the opinions and attitudes of european citizens. for example, the lack of freedom of the media, the death penalty, which in europe still exists only in belarus, isolation, the threat to human rights and so on. the situation in belarus is not yet in line with democratic principles and it can be said that europe is deeply concerned about belarus, especially about human and fundamental rights in the country, while many other processes still need to be corrected. therefore, belarus should continue to work for the betterment of the country itself and its people, recognizing positive developments, such as the recent release of the remaining political prisoners, and highlighting the negatives and omissions and sanctioning them together with the belarusians. belarus should respect un recommendations, international law and national minorities, all in order to improve the coexistence of people within the country and coexistence with the european union.
written. ‒ i support the motion for a resolution underlining the situation of fundamental human rights in the republic of belarus in accordance with the report of the high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. given that this country remains the only dictatorship in europe, and the only country still to implement the death penalty, i welcome the resolution which encourages greater engagement of the eu state and institutions towards belarus. but without respect for democratic principles, human rights and fundamental freedoms, in accordance with the universal declaration of human rights, it is impossible to speak of progress in relations with the republic of belarus. i hope that the process of releasing the six political prisoners is an indication of the belarusian authorities' desire to participate in democratic processes and that such moves are not a gathering of political and international sympathies, but a sincere intention to reform the political environment in belarus.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the european parliament's motion for a resolution on social entrepreneurship and social innovation in the fight against unemployment because the european union is facing major social and economic challenges, which have been further amplified by the economic and financial crisis. i believe that it is necessary to upgrade and improve the current socio-economic model to ensure faster and sustainable growth. the priority should be to stimulate job creation, with particular attention to the most vulnerable groups in society and to young people. in this context, i believe that social entrepreneurship and social innovation can make a significant contribution to strengthening and growing the social economy and that it is therefore essential to promote education and training and the entrepreneurial and innovative approach of young people.
written. ‒ i supported the report by mep lope fontagné which encourages member states to use social entrepreneurship as a tool to combat the high unemployment rate in the union. the social economy is an important driver of the economy in the european union, but in croatia we can say that it is only in its infancy and we do not have accurate data on this form of entrepreneurship. according to a recent study by the european commission, the social economy in the european union generates 10% of gdp. the social economy employs over 14 million people, or about 6.5% of the workforce in the european union. two million companies and smes are socially responsible and account for 10% of all eu enterprises. these figures should be an incentive for member states to invest in social entrepreneurship and innovation and to start implementing social economy strategies as soon as possible, especially as it is oriented towards the betterment of society as a whole and is highly attractive to young people. it is also important to define social entrepreneurship at union level in order to better monitor the statistics and impact of the social economy.
written. ‒ i supported this report because the social economy, given its social nature, offers jobs to the most vulnerable and thus contributes to economic growth, solidarity and social cohesion. social economy enterprises are more flexible and innovative, offer favourable working conditions and adapt better to economic and social circumstances. the commission notes that the capital injections were made in the form of a capital injection of eur [...] million. it promotes lifelong learning among older workers and long-term unemployed to enable them to re-skill in the direction of the social economy. it is a way of doing business that is not only aimed at maximising profits, but also at providing secure jobs and social engagement through the investment of earnings for social purposes, and the figures show that social entrepreneurship provides 14.5 million jobs and that 50 billion euros are turned over annually in this sector.
written. ‒ in the quest to create a fairer european society, social entrepreneurship plays a unique role, as the aim of social and solidarity economy enterprises is not only to improve economic but also social conditions. social economics is not just a question of attitudes towards economic activities, but it is a question of a holistic approach to life in which economics is meaningfully and sustainably integrated along with all other aspects of human life. i support the report and the calls it makes to the commission and to national institutions to make further efforts to facilitate access to public funding for social entrepreneurs and to make further efforts to promote and integrate social entrepreneurship into existing educational programmes. the social and solidarity-based economy offers jobs to groups that are most often excluded from the open labour market, thus contributing to solidarity, social cohesion and economic growth. i firmly believe that with the growth of social entrepreneurship, which has proven particularly resilient to the gender imbalances and volatile economic conditions present in europe in recent years, the union would achieve many of the more ambitious targets set by the europe 2020 strategy sooner and more easily.
written. the economic and financial crisis that has hit the eu requires a revision of the social and economic model in place to ensure future growth and development that must reflect the economic principles and social and territorial cohesion on which the eu is based. i agree with ms fontagné and support her report, which states that the social economy should be the backbone of the eu's primary objectives - such as creating jobs, the well-being of citizens, caring for the most vulnerable groups of citizens as well as for young people, women, the elderly and the disabled, and finally for immigrants, who are currently the european union's most pressing problem. i think social entrepreneurship is a good answer to the problems that the economic crisis has left behind. the purpose of a social economy enterprise is to achieve its social objectives such as creating jobs for the most vulnerable groups, creating a positive impact on society and the environment, etc. such enterprises have a strong local and regional roots and are thus better able to identify the specific needs of the community.
written. ‒ this explanation of the vote arises as a criticism of the existing system of evaluating the work of meps in the european parliament solely on the basis of the statistical number of parliamentary activities promoted in croatia, which does not actually reflect the actual quality and quantity of work, efficiency and above all the success of the representative action.
written. ‒ i support this report because social entrepreneurship, like social innovation, is important for the further development of the social economy in europe. it is therefore important that this sector of innovation and entrepreneurship in the economy is given a special kind of attention, at european and national level of each member state. it is also important that social economy enterprises are included in action plans for employment, development and social inclusion, and it is the responsibility of member states to promote sound and socially responsible entrepreneurship and investment in their social economies. business and entrepreneurship need to be supported in the ways that are available, because they are the backbone of employment and development in europe. i would also welcome the tax relief decisions which benefit business and therefore support this report.
written. ‒ i support this report because the problem of unemployment entails many issues such as social exclusion, but also extreme poverty. the commission should be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 290 tfeu concerning the definition of the concept of 'originating products' and the definition of the concept of 'originating products' and the definition of the concept of 'originating products' and the definition of the concept of 'originating products'. social entrepreneurship is an important driver of social cohesion and sustainability that can drive economic growth while reducing poverty, social exclusion and other social problems. it is important to address this problem at european level, but also at national level.
written. ‒ i supported a report that recognises the social entrepreneurship model as an opportunity for young people to offer innovative responses to current economic, social and environmental challenges, including by creating jobs for groups that are most often excluded from the open labour market, but also contributing to economic growth. i consider that the lack of awareness of managers of financial intermediaries about the importance of social entrepreneurship is one of the main causes of difficult access to finance and therefore i support the emphasis on the need to raise awareness of the importance of that entrepreneurship. since even citizens are not sufficiently informed about the social and solidarity enterprises sector, i believe that education and training of people who intend to work in this sector, as well as greater visibility at national and european level, will greatly help its further development.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the european parliament's motion for a resolution on creating a competitive eu labour market for the 21st century: matching skills and qualifications with demand and employment opportunities as a way of recovering from the crisis, because serious reforms of the labour market and economic policies are needed to achieve inclusive, smart and sustainable growth in the european union and to overcome the consequences of the economic and financial crisis. in this context, rapid adaptation and exploitation of new technologies, greater synergies between education systems, the exchange of good practices and strong encouragement of entrepreneurship, self-employment and small and medium-sized enterprises are needed. i believe that this can create a labour market that is globally competitive and sustainable.
written. ‒ unemployment remains one of the union's main challenges. although there are some signs of recovery, the labour market has been declining in recent years and employment opportunities remain low. ambitious economic policies and labour market reforms are needed to foster smart, sustainable and inclusive growth and create new jobs that deliver quality and sustainable employment. several challenges affect the european labour market, including globalisation, ageing societies, rapid technological change, skills and job mismatches, and an increase in demand for highly skilled workers, while there is an oversupply of low-skilled workers. the report stresses the importance of social investment and recalls the need for geographical and cross-sectoral labour mobility. the role of educational institutions in skills development is very important. the importance of support and incentive measures for smes, which are the backbone of the eu economy, is underlined. i supported the report by ms dlabajova because i believe that there is a need to work continuously to link education, training and labour markets at all levels and to foster smart, sustainable and inclusive growth. job creation in europe requires a holistic approach that reflects the needs of the labour market, which supports vulnerable groups by improving working conditions and providing incentives.
written. ‒ the effects of the economic and financial crisis continue to linger on the labour market and job creation is slow. reducing unemployment remains one of the eu's main challenges, with rates varying considerably between member states (germany 4.8% compared with spain 23.7%). youth unemployment is almost twice the eu average and stands at a high of 21.4%. at the same time, 2 million jobs within the union cannot be filled because of labour market incompatibilities and insufficient labour mobility. the report therefore states that labour market reforms are necessary to achieve a competitive market. first, it is necessary to increase flexibility both in the labour market and for jobseekers. the commission should also be able to provide information on the impact of the new rules on the functioning of the internal market and on the impact of the new rules on the functioning of the internal market. these are just some of the recommendations of the report that are more than necessary in this period of high unemployment and insecurity for young people across europe.
written. ‒ in the european union labour market, there are significant differences between member states in occupations that cannot be filled due to a shortage of skilled workers. according to the commission, a maximum of 12,4 million people have been unemployed for more than one year, of which 6 million have been unemployed for more than two years, posing a threat to the labour market as long-term unemployment negatively affects economic growth and the sustainability of the social welfare system. i support the rapporteur's proposal for the necessary measures to match skills and qualifications with demand in order to create a competitive labour market, which require that measures be taken on the labour market in relation to workers' skills and basic and vocational training. the inflexibility of the labour market and the absence of domestic demand and investment have a negative impact on job creation, while a competitive union labour market can contribute to the achievement of the employment objectives and the fight against poverty and social exclusion under the europe 2020 strategy.
written. ambitious economic and social policies and reforms are needed to achieve a competitive eu labour market. the pillars of eu growth and development are smart, sustainable and inclusive growth. the main obstacle to the achievement of these objectives and to a competitive market is the high level of unemployment. at eu level, the unemployment rate is 9.8%, but in some member states it is as high as 25%. the commission has also adopted a communication on the implementation of the european year of the environment, which aims to promote the use of renewable energy sources in the eu. the reason for such unemployment is partly the lack of market-oriented skills in the education system, which creates unfilled jobs due to the lack of necessary skills. better linkages between education, training and the labour market are needed at all levels. another important element in the path towards a competitive market is the mobility of citizens within the eu, which remains very low, despite high unemployment rates in some member states and unfilled jobs in others. this is where reforms are needed, to reduce existing barriers and to encourage citizens to seize the opportunities offered by the eu market. in view of the above, i support the report by mrs dlabaj.
written. ‒ this explanation of the vote arises as a criticism of the existing system of evaluating the work of meps in the european parliament solely on the basis of the statistical number of parliamentary activities promoted in croatia, which does not actually reflect the actual quality and quantity of work, efficiency and above all the success of the representative action.
written. ‒ i support this report because it requires better connections and active participation of the main actors - educational institutions, business structures, trade unions and workers - within the states and local communities, but also at the european level to be of quality and competitive. given the impact of the financial crisis on the european labour market and the fact that unemployment and youth unemployment are above the eu average in many member states, while job creation is still slow, and that on the other hand there are over two million jobs that cannot be filled due to labour market mismatches between different countries and insufficient labour mobility, proposed reforms are needed to increase flexibility of both labour and labour markets, to better align workers' skills and competences with market needs, and to achieve a higher quality and more competitive european labour market. the proposed reforms are also needed to better align educational institutions with the needs of the real sector and to value values such as lifelong learning, eures, individual access to different social groups, language education and similar proposals in this report.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of a report which stresses the need for reforms to achieve a competitive labour market in order to increase labour market and personal career flexibility, align skills with available jobs and develop a stronger synergy between the education system and business needs. given that youth unemployment remains high in many member states, i support the emphasis on the importance of the exchange of best practices between member states as well as the need to promote initiatives that will encourage self-employment and entrepreneurship, with a particular focus on smes and micro-enterprises. removing bureaucratic obstacles and reducing the tax burden on labour will greatly help job creation in this sector. finally, i consider it extremely useful to improve the labour market situation in member states such as croatia by supporting the preservation of traditional skills that create stable jobs and their transfer to future generations, combining them with new knowledge.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the european parliament's motion for a resolution on the 30th and 31st annual reports on the monitoring of the application of eu law (2012-2013) because i believe that the legal texts of the european union must be fully accessible to citizens in a transparent and simple manner, i.e. a reliable and predictable regulatory framework must be ensured. we are witnessing the differing transposition and implementation of eu law across the member states, due to technical and linguistic barriers, and excessive bureaucracy. such a system is not fully adapted to citizens and lacks a high degree of efficiency. the commission should also be able to provide the necessary information to the member states in order to ensure that the union's financial interests are protected.
written. ‒ the effective application of eu rules is necessary in the context of achieving political objectives, which ultimately comes down to respecting the rule of law. the report of the representative of chrysogonus stresses the need for the member states and the commission to fulfil their duties and responsibilities. the commission must help member states to implement eu law properly in order to strengthen the support and confidence in its legitimacy that citizens are losing because of all the problems of recent years. i supported the report which aims to make information on the implementation of union law in the area of freedom, security and justice more structured, detailed, transparent and accessible. it is noted that other measures could be introduced alongside the annual monitoring report to enable parliament to report more thoroughly on the state of implementation, delays, irregular transfers, enforcement and procedures in the field of justice and in other areas.
written. ‒ the consistent application and respect of the rule of law are the foundations on which the european union, but also all its member states, rest. it is therefore up to us to ensure a consistent application of the rule of law that will ensure that citizens are informed in a clear and transparent manner and informed in a timely manner about which legal standards have been adopted by the eu and which national authorities are responsible for their proper application. the main responsibility and duty for the proper implementation and application of eu law lies with the member states and their institutions. it is the duty of the eu to respect eu primary law in the decision-making, implementation and imposition of social, economic and other policies on member states and to assist member states in their efforts to respect democratic and social values, and to be guided by the principle of subsidiarity and the powers of the member states. the commission should be able to take action to ensure that the union's citizens are informed of the infringements of union law and to ensure that the union's citizens are informed of the infringements of union law. given the importance of the application and respect for fundamental rights set out in this report, i support its adoption.
written. ‒ article 51 of the charter of fundamental rights of the european union clearly limits the obligation of member states to respect the charter when applying union law, but does not provide for a limitation of the obligations of the charter on eu institutions, bodies, offices or agencies. i would point out that in the european union, which is based on the rule of law, legal certainty and predictability of the law, there must be a legal obligation for the citizens of the european union to be the first to be informed in a clear, accessible, transparent manner (via the internet and other means) and in a timely manner about which national legal standards have been adopted in the context of the transposition of eu legislation and which national authorities are responsible for their correct application. i support the report which stresses that the commission should focus on effective problem-solving, effective governance and preventive measures, but also stresses that, in addition to formal infringement procedures, it should also consider new ways to improve the transposition and enforcement of european union law.
written. i support the report by rapporteur chrysogonos on the proposal for a council decision on the 30th and 31st annual reports on the monitoring of the application of eu law (2012-2013) which emphasises the application of eu law if the union achieves its political objectives, which is ultimately a matter of respecting the rule of law. the report emphasises the need for member states and the commission to fulfil their duties and responsibilities in this regard. it is of particular importance as it highlights that, in an eu based on the rule of law, legal certainty and predictability of the law, there must be a legal obligation for citizens of the european union to be the first to be informed, in a clear, accessible and transparent manner, of the national legal rules adopted in the context of the transposition of eu legislation and of the national authorities responsible for their correct application. in the context of the recent financial crisis, member states have had to take measures that threaten eu primary law, in particular the provisions on the protection of social and economic rights. i believe that eu legislation must be transposed correctly and in a timely manner into the legal order of each member state and that there is a need to further strengthen the cooperation between members of the european parliament and the european affairs committees of national and regional parliaments.
written. ‒ this explanation of the vote arises as a criticism of the existing system of evaluating the work of meps in the european parliament solely on the basis of the statistical number of parliamentary activities promoted in croatia, which does not actually reflect the actual quality and quantity of work, efficiency and above all the success of the representative action.
written. ‒ i support this report because it promotes austerity measures which are still very important for europe, which has not yet recovered from the financial and economic crisis that has been unfolding in recent years. the application of eu law by member states is effective, which is a positive thing considering that this is a category that is essential for achieving the political objectives of the european union. this should be the case in the future, and all member states and the commission should fulfil their obligations and be accountable for them, as they have been so far.
written. ‒ while the report emphasises the commission's duty to monitor the application and enforcement of eu law in a timely and effective manner, i believe it focuses on issues that should not be prioritised. the four main areas where the highest number of cases were initiated were transport, health and consumer protection, environmental protection and internal market and services issues, which were identified as priority areas in this report. while there is a need to encourage enforcement in these areas, i believe that other issues, such as reducing bureaucratic obstacles and increasing competitiveness, should also be highlighted. this would allow for a simpler and more efficient application of european union law in the member states. the commission has also concluded that the aid is compatible with the internal market within the meaning of article 107 (3) (c) of the treaty. that is why i voted against this report.
madam president, during the war in croatia, i had the opportunity to help many of the displaced and refugees from bosnia and herzegovina and to feel what it means to be homeless, to be left without everything. that is why i am supporting today what the commission is doing, the actions and the positions we have and condemning what happened on monday. however, i want to warn you that the migrant crisis has practically shifted to croatia. in the last 24 hours, refugees have been coming into croatia, and what's important is that the croatian government has shown seriousness at this point, but croatia cannot solve this problem on its own. and that is why it is important that the commission immediately help our country so that croatia can cope with the wave of refugees that will surely follow. in addition, i must say, we have a great example from kutina where young people are even preparing a cultural program for refugees. such people need support, but the commission and the european union must act and show solidarity in action.
madam president, as we are having this debate, the first hundred refugees are entering croatia. all around our country, borders are being closed, walls are being erected and railways are being blocked, so it's unclear at this point whether anyone will want to take in the surplus of refugees that croatia has nothing to offer. clearly, fences, walls and roadblocks are not the answer, but they are not the product of someone's madness. part of the responsibility certainly lies with brussels, which has sent messages that clearly do not have the support of all member states. today, the large numbers of people in the refugee camp have nothing to do with the wars in syria and iraq. they come from countries not directly affected by conflict, and they come because european officials have told them that europe has room for everyone. europe should have a place for women, children, the elderly and those facing certain death if they remain in their homeland, and for economic migrants, this europe of concern should have had a common immigration policy long ago.
written. more than 100,000 people are waiting for our answer whether we will approve or reject the commission's proposal and receive them. i support the commission's proposal because it is realistic and guarantees the dignity of all those fleeing the war in syria. it is a proposal that will enable us to show solidarity with those in need and to build the europe we believe in. i support the quota system, but i think it's a temporary solution. it is necessary to address the causes of these people leaving their countries and to see what the eu is doing to root out the causes, to stabilise the situation and to keep migration under control, because security reports say that among the refugees there are those who have bought syrian passports and who could potentially pose a security threat. we need a common comprehensive strategy involving all countries and all parties, which will contribute to the protection of our external borders, but also to the protection of those fleeing war. this is not just a humanitarian issue, but also a security, economic and social issue, and we must be prepared to provide these people with dignity, while ensuring that eu citizens live in safety and preserving our internal stability.
president of the council. madam president, it would be easy to move on to another item on the agenda. but it so happens that this item on the agenda, which we are now going to deal with, is not unrelated to the one we have just discussed. the debate has, of course, focused on refugees, who are the victims of conflicts, of terrible wars that tear apart a number of countries. but a number of members have noted that among these refugees there are of course also people who are called refugees or economic migrants, as if the poverty, as if the absolute destitution they often face were not a reason to go looking for a better life elsewhere. what about the young people in africa and elsewhere who have no prospect of finding a job, no prospect of a decent life? in the end, are these young people not right to leave, to set off too? we are talking, of course, about economic migrants, migrants who would have fewer rights. yes, perhaps they have no rights under the geneva convention, but is not absolute poverty a reason to leave and seek a little better life elsewhere? so i would like to repeat a little what president juncker said last week: who are we europeans to condemn these millions of people who want to go elsewhere? not so long ago - because in history, a century or a century and a half is a relatively short period of time - millions of europeans set out because they were poor, because they had no economic and social prospects in europe, because they had nothing to offer their children. they went looking for a better life elsewhere and looked in particular to the new world that had welcomed them. therefore, we must understand. it should be noted that one third of the luxembourg population - and i believe there are other countries in similar situations - left for the united states because they could not survive in luxembourg. so poverty affects us. and the poverty that is elsewhere concerns us. this is the reality of a globalized world. migration is part of this globalized world, and especially in a globalized world where, at the end of the day, even those who live in the back of africa have information, means of communication, means of getting an idea of what their life could be like if they could live it elsewhere. this debate therefore concerns us and, in a certain sense, it is a continuation of the previous debate because the answer, here too, to these so-called economic migrants cannot be the construction of new walls, the construction of new barbed wire or the use of tear gas, for the moment, we do not know what will happen next. the answer to this problem is development. it's a global economy that doesn't condemn millions, if not billions, of human beings to total destitution, not to mention climate refugees, refugees who are already the victims, today, of climate problems and global warming. that is why the adoption of the 2030 agenda for sustainable development is so important and must be a top priority for europe, because here too we are in the front line if we fail to combat poverty effectively in our neighbours, in our african neighbours and elsewhere. following the work of the addis ababa conference on financing for development, the sustainable development summit in new york is the second major milestone of this year 2015, which should hopefully - i believe that hopes are justified - conclude with the adoption of a universal climate agreement in december in paris at cop 21. the final outcome of the post-2015 process can be considered as overall satisfactory. indeed, the european union's main objective of adopting an ambitious, transformative and sustainable sustainable development agenda has been more or less achieved. we are still waiting for final adoption by the summit at the end of this month in new york. the agenda includes a set of objectives that integrate in a balanced way the three dimensions of sustainable development and pursue a primary objective: poverty eradication. in this context, we can welcome the fact that the action programme resulting from the addis ababa conference on financing for development is the cornerstone of the means of implementing the 2030 agenda and includes both financial and non-financial means to implement the future development agenda. i would like to underline the role of parliament in this collective success and thank you for your support throughout the negotiation process. in this context, i would like to mention in particular the work of mr stier on your november 2014 resolution on the comprehensive development framework beyond 2015 and that of ms theocharous on the role of local authorities in development cooperation. we must now take action, that is, implement the 2030 agenda. to do this, we must first examine all the instruments at our disposal and determine whether they are adequate. the programme represents a significant development in relation to the millennium development goals, particularly in its universal character which means that it will have to be implemented by all and at all levels of development. it is not just for developing countries, it is an agenda for sustainable development. we get back to this idea that we all live on the same planet and that there are no rich people on one side and those who unfortunately don't have the chance to be rich people on the other. in this context, the commission will have to examine all european legislation in the various sectors concerned and, if necessary, present appropriate legislative proposals to the european parliament and the council. member states will also need to review their sustainable development strategies and instruments in the light of the 2030 agenda. the implementation and monitoring of the 2030 agenda is not only a matter for governments and administrations but for all actors, including civil society and the private sector. the programme incorporates a robust monitoring and control mechanism which was one of the major difficulties during the negotiations. we now have a framework to assess progress and report back to the citizens. in implementing the 2030 agenda, we also need to ensure that the balance between the three dimensions of sustainable development - economic, social and environmental - is maintained, and i count on the support of parliament. on the council side, the ministers for development and environment will have the opportunity to discuss the continuation of the process and the coordination of the process on 26 october in luxembourg. there are also strong links between the 2030 agenda for sustainable development and the cop 21 conference, which will take place in paris from 30 november to 11 december. for the luxembourg presidency, it will be crucial to ensure that we build on the progress made in addis ababa and new york to ensure that the paris conference is also a success. with regard to this paris conference, reconciling development and climate action is possible, but it is not only possible, it is absolutely essential. this is why the 2030 agenda for sustainable development has created a new objective: urgent action to combat climate change and its consequences. this objective calls for an ambitious and universal agreement in december in paris at cop 21. preparing for cop 21 is one of the main priorities of our presidency and this friday the environment and finance ministers will be discussing climate finance at their meeting. the environment council will adopt conclusions as early as friday which will serve as a mandate for cop 21. the position of the european union and its member states is clear. the 2015 agreement should, firstly, be a universal and legally binding agreement to effectively combat climate change and to contain the increase in the average global temperature to at least two degrees below pre-industrial levels. second, a deal that is made to last, that offers a long-term vision of the transformation needed towards resilient, low-carbon societies and economies that are able to withstand the effects of climate change. thirdly, a flexible agreement with the capacity to respond dynamically to changing scientific and technological knowledge, responsibilities and capacities and to allow for broad and effective participation. finally, an agreement with mechanisms to measure progress and deepen ambition. we need a sound, rules-based regime, including rules on monitoring, verification of emissions and clear compatibility of emissions for all countries. the parties' actions will need to be irreversible and to move towards low carbon emissions. an agreement with a long-term objective, which should send a strong signal for transforming the development trajectories of countries to become low-carbon economies that are resilient to the effects of climate change. i would add that funding will be an important element, with a public and private commitment at the heart of the scheme of $100 billion a year by 2020 from developed countries to the poorest and most vulnerable countries, and more broadly, a re-direction of investment towards low-carbon and economically viable technologies. this is a great prospect for rebooting our economies and making a real technological leap and supporting sustainable growth. finally, i would like to stress that we welcome the support, here too, of the european parliament and its rapporteur, mr gilles pargneaux, to help us reach an agreement in paris in the near future.
first vice-president of the commission.– madam president, i will make some specific comments on development—related elements for the summit on sustainable development and cop 21, but before doing this, i want to make a more general remark. it is almost a year ago that, in the course of the hearings in this parliament, president juncker decided to hand me responsibility for sustainable development in a broad sense to create coherence in our policies. i want to point to the fact that one of the factors that will determine whether we will be successful with these policies is whether we are able to create coherence between the different elements – and we lack coherence. we lack coherence in my institution, we lack coherence in this institution, in the council, in the member states, in the international world. i think my first plea to you today would be, let us work together to create coherence between the actions of the dgs in the commission, the different committees in the european parliament. let us face it, sometimes the policies that come out of different dgs and different committees have contradictions. that is a reality, so let us try and do away with contradictions. i am at your disposal, i say to the members of this parliament, to do better than we have done up till now. i really want to make sure that we are coherent, because sustainable development has three main aspects: obviously environmental; but also economic, and social. these elements have a role inside the european union, and obviously worldwide, and as long as we are not able to create coherence between these different dimensions our approach will not be successful enough and will, if it continues to be contradictory, also lead to a waste of financial resources, human resources, political resources. the adoption of the 2030 agenda for sustainable development is going to be a landmark achievement, i think, because it has an inclusive nature already. it is something the european union has been advocating for a long time and i think this time, for once, citizens, parliaments, civil society, made the contributions, not just governments, and the way this parliament was involved in the process testifies to that different approach. the european union had an instrumental role in shaping the agenda; a lot will be expected of the european union also in new york, and president juncker has asked me to lead the delegation. there are 17 sustainable development goals which follow and expand on the mdgs. as i said, they would have to integrate economic, social and environmental dimensions, as well as human rights, gender equality, the rule of law, good governance and peaceful and inclusive societies. let me come back to this point because i think it is crucial. a holistic approach is what we need, but there is always a big danger in a holistic approach. if you say you need to do everything you end up doing nothing. but if you only leave the different silos on their own you might achieve something in one silo, nothing in another, etc. so the challenge here is to be precise on the specific issues without ever forgetting that you need to integrate it with other policies. parliaments will have to have an important role to play in that, and governments as well, but civil society should never be forgotten, because integrating policies is actually better done mostly in civil society than at governmental level. we have agreed a global partnership, it is ambitious, and i think we are determined to change, to integrate our internal and external policies, to make sure that, also in the future of the europe 2020 strategy and other areas, we are coherent with what we agree in new york. of course we need to look after the most vulnerable. if we do not look after the most vulnerable sooner or later they will draw the conclusion that they have no future where they are and will look for a future elsewhere, which will exacerbate the problems with migration we already have. in that context i think those countries which are now facing huge financial challenges because of the migration crisis, had they decided a long time ago to follow the un’s guidance and go up to 0.7% of oda, i think we would perhaps be looking at a different situation. so i would urge, through you, all the member states finally to try and reach our objective, which is still in my view a modest one. it would inspire the rest of the world if europe were also to lead in this area. it is not just about aid and support. huge parts of the world that used to depend on aid and support are now self-sustaining, are going through incredible growth cycles, incredible growth figures, but very often this growth is very unequally distributed. people migrate not because their country’s economy is shrinking or in trouble but because the wealth in their country is unevenly distributed, because they have no say, because democracy is thwarted, because their human rights are trampled upon. so there also we need to have an integrated approach involving all actors. and we need a strong and inclusive follow-up and review mechanism. all too often we are good at coming to agreements, promising all sorts of things, but we are weak at following up, weak at presenting what we do and weak at being accountable for what we need to do, so we need to put up that strong and inclusive follow-up and review mechanism. on cop 21, very briefly, on development-related aspects, i have three remarks. first, we need to deliver the 20% of climate-relevant finance for our development budget, including the development cooperation instrument and the european development fund, which will result in more than eur 9 billion in climate finance between 2014 and 2020. this is more than double what was delivered during the previous period. we are making a significant effort to reach this target and have actively contributed to the climate finance report the oecd is preparing for the special world bank and imf meeting in lima in october. second, we are preparing to launch specific new climate-relevant initiatives, including a new phase of the global climate change alliance with a budget of at least eur 350 million that will support adaptation to climate in vulnerable countries, notably least-developed countries and small island developing states. it will also provide support to accessible low-carbon energy through: bilateral and thematic programmes with around eur 3.6 billion, including the new innovative electrification financing initiative, (electrfi), which will help mobilise private investment in this area; support to sustainable agriculture and food security, eur 8.8 billion; and up to eur 50 billion of investment through our blending facilities, with our climate change windows being a key mobilising more climate finance from other public and private investors. this will include eu funding of at least eur 2 billion in the period 2014-2020. finally, we plan a number of targeted side events in paris to present these initiatives and raise awareness among our key partners in order to maximise their participation.
madam president, minister schmit, vice president timmermans, in less than two weeks, the new 15-year global development framework will be adopted at the new york summit. the european parliament has already adopted a resolution and thus contributed to defining the new development framework after 2015. the european union has also devoted this entire year to promoting development policy, calling it the european year of development. as we noted in the previous discussion, this year could also be called the european year of migration. and of course, development policy is an important aspect in defining responses to the current refugee crisis and the long-term migration challenge. in this context, i welcome the announcement by the european commission of the creation of a dedicated fund for africa of eur 1.8 billion, on top of the existing fund for syria. however, it is not enough to allocate from the european budget or the european development fund, but a financial contribution from the member states to these funds is needed. the commission should also be able to provide the necessary information to the member states to enable them to take the necessary measures to ensure that the union's financial instruments are used effectively. at the same time, development policy must focus more on projects to support peace and security, as well as on promoting good governance, building effective and responsive institutions, and combating corruption. the current framework of the millennium development goals did not address these issues, but that should change in two weeks in new york. the new global framework is therefore much more demanding than the previous one and focuses on the very causes of poverty and underdevelopment, not just the symptoms. the issues of peace and security, respect for human rights, effective justice and migration are thus part of a new framework which, unlike the millennium development goals, will be universal, i.e. binding on the member states of the european union. the challenge and task ahead is the credible implementation of the new development goals and it is therefore important in the coming period to ensure that the european parliament effectively monitors the implementation of the new goals within the eu and in european development cooperation with other countries.
written. the un sustainable development summit in new york must answer why the fight against poverty and climate change is failing. the results are poor and the achievement of the millennium development goals has remained a pipe dream of great ambition. cop 21 will be crucial for the future of countries that rightly expect our help and partnership. the european union should certainly also think about targeted aid to countries that are often the source of crises such as the migrant crisis at the moment. as the crisis is expected to last for a considerable period, targeted investments are becoming even more important.
written. in the european year of development, we faced a number of challenges brought about by our race for better technological capabilities, strong industry and strong economic parameters. only after we had put some of the financial difficulties behind us did problems of a primarily social and moral nature come to the fore. the targets to be adopted next week at the un summit are aligned with the european union's objectives. i stress the need for an agenda like the 2030 agenda for sustainable development so that as a group of globally interdependent political actors we have clearly set priorities and goals that we need to work towards to end poverty in all its forms. but apart from the clear and visible guidelines we need to have on the social and economic problems, there are a number of other problems, perhaps unknown to european countries, that we are likely to face in the future. the european council in brussels on 25 and 26 september called on the commission to take the necessary steps to ensure that the european union's future is not left to chance.
mr president, i would like to express my firm position and support for the european union's single energy market because i think that this single energy market really has no alternative. based on stable legislation and security of supply, but also free choice for consumers, i think it's something that's a great advantage that we can give our fellow citizens at this point. but what i would like to emphasize and repeat in my speech, mr sefcovic, is to draw your attention to the energy resources that exist in the western balkans, from the planned construction of lng terminals in croatia and albania, but also to renewable energy sources, especially hydropower, in the countries of south-east europe and those outside the eu, from where the refugees are coming. so maybe we can have a win-win combination where we have renewable energy and we help developing countries and we stop the refugee flows from those countries.
mr. president, esteemed commissioners of the european commission, the crisis has been going on for a long time. and the crisis is very deep. i have no doubt that you are aware of this, i have had the opportunity to speak with you and i have become acquainted with your good intentions. here again, in these measures we can read your good intentions, but we have to be realistic about whether we will actually succeed because i fear that the crisis is not only too long, but it is too deep as i said, and for such a crisis it will probably require more radical reforms to succeed in eventually lifting the entire sector. we all want to help you do that. to be based on family farms, on authentic quality european products. reform is definitely needed, as well as probably very radical measures that we expect from you in the coming months.
mr president, i commend the commission and commissioner hogan for their swift response and for the allocation of eur 500 million for crisis interventions in the dairy sector. unfortunately, the commissioner himself is aware, as are all of us here, that the funds provided will not be sufficient to plug all the holes that have been created by political decisions that farmers have had no influence on. i think we should also think about and strongly support measures that will be more effective than the existing ones in order to save what can be saved in the dairy sector. it is difficult for all farmers, but the crisis is felt far more strongly in the new member states, where the farmer must give 3 litres of milk for 1 litre of water. in croatia, for example, 75 percent of the money that goes to support agriculture ends up in the hands of big companies, not the small family farms that the money goes to. in addition, croatian farmers pay up to 5 times higher interest on loans than their western european counterparts and are in a state of debt slavery. faced with unfair competition and a government that doesn't care about them, they rightly wonder how they're going to survive and so of course they have high expectations of you, commissioner hogan, because they know that you understand them well.
mr president, in my country, croatia, the crisis in the agricultural sector is undoubtedly hitting small producers hardest, who are struggling to cope with rising production costs and for whom we have not sufficiently facilitated the placing of products on the common market. constantly raising the standards of production may seem to benefit consumers, but in the long run it harms them by reducing their choice. the commission has also proposed that the commission should provide a detailed description of the measures it intends to take to ensure that the union's financial interests are protected. the decline of small family farms thus deprives consumers of quality products that could be competitive, and policy does not intervene in agriculture to such an extent. europe must preserve its tradition of family farming, and this can only be achieved by reducing the tax and administrative burden on small family farms and by making information and funds more accessible.
written. the common agricultural policy over the last 20 years has combined the process of liberalisation with a policy of strengthening producers and producer associations, all with the aim of empowering farmers to sell their products collectively. the commission therefore concluded that the measures in question were not imputable to the state and that the commission had no reason to doubt that the measures in question were necessary and proportionate. if we add to the legislative regulations a political crisis like the one in ukraine that led to sanctions against russia, the situation in agriculture in the european union can rightly be called a crisis. the commission should also be able to assess the impact of the new rules on the situation of small farmers in croatia, in particular by examining the impact of the new rules on the situation of small farmers in the member states. for example, the production of most major fruits and vegetables in croatia has decreased in the past year. dairy farmers are particularly affected by the abolition of quotas. the commission has also examined the possibility of a new aid scheme for the production of bicycles and the possibility of a new aid scheme for the production of bicycles. the organisation into associations must become a strategic imperative for small producers, not only to increase competitiveness on foreign markets, but also to meet the needs of their own market. i hope that legislative proposals will be made to further facilitate and encourage such practices.
mr president, the international planned parenthood organisation received over eur 10 million from the european commission for projects inside and outside the eu between 2007 and 2014. much of this money comes from development aid funds, aid designed to eradicate world poverty and ensure a life of dignity for every human being. but the u.s. branch of this organization, which is generously funded by european taxpayers, is currently under investigation for suspected involvement in the illegal sale of parts of aborted babies. all this is taking place in the european year of development, a year we are promoting under the slogan 'our world, our dignity, our future'. i therefore call on the commission to remain true to its own motto, to preserve the dignity of the eu and to stop funding the international planned parenthood organisation in the future.
mr. president, is life in europe a barbed wire today? is life in europe a water cannon? is life in europe today tearful? i must say that croatia has shown the human face of europe in the last 24 hours and i am proud of our citizens and fellow citizens who have clearly shown this. i ask the european commission to help croatia immediately. is it possible that the candidate countries, serbia and macedonia, are doing much more in this refugee crisis than the member countries are doing? i ask the european commission to help the candidate countries, serbia and macedonia, who have shown a human face and are helping refugees, immediately. i also ask that the european commission immediately fund unhcr and the refugee camps in lebanon, turkey and jordan because we may be facing another refugee cataclysm.
mr. president, two years and three months ago, the international criminal tribunal for the former yugoslavia handed down a first-instance judgment against six bosnian croats who were civil servants during the bosnian war. as vice-president of the delegation for bosnia and herzegovina, for relations between the european parliament and bosnia and herzegovina, i feel called upon to express my concern at the length of the procedure. more than 11 years had passed since the six had voluntarily surrendered to the hague, and this trial became one of the longest judicial trials in the former yugoslavia. the international criminal court in the hague was established with the aim of establishing and maintaining peace. i want to believe that in the trial against jadranko prlic, bruna stojic, slobodan praljka, milivoj petkovic, valentin čorić and berislav pušić, justice and truth will be satisfied and that the verdict will be pronounced quickly. we must be guided by the truth if we want to achieve reconciliation between peoples and the establishment of lasting peace, and the truth is that the military operations in croatia and bosnia and herzegovina during 1995 created the preconditions for the end of the war and the establishment of peace, and that the cause of the war in croatia and bosnia and herzegovina is milosevic's great serbian policy, the consequences of which are srebrenica and vukovar the greatest crimes in europe since the second world war.
mr. president, the refugee column has also knocked on the door of croatia and it is now clear to everyone that this humanitarian and security crisis will spare no one. member states take turns closing borders, raising armies, blocking railways and pointing fingers at one another, seeking to find the main culprit behind the chaotic situation. but it is becoming clear that the main culprit lives here in brussels. the european commission, this stateless government, with its messages of unreserved solidarity and openness to migrants, has only encouraged tens of thousands of people from war-free asian and african countries to join the real refugees in seeking happiness in europe. since the european commission has no country of its own, it cannot take care of anyone without forcing eu members, who are increasingly resisting pressure, to do so. the huge differences between the commission's ambitions and european reality are now resulting in chaos which is a serious threat to the security and social systems of the member states.
i voted in favour of the european parliament resolution on the commission work programme for 2016 because europe is facing a challenging period that requires concrete measures and responses. i believe that it is necessary to define in detail how the implementation of the europe 2020 strategy will be continued in order to ensure growth and jobs. the high unemployment situation is alarming and requires an urgent response in the form of job creation and the resolution of the eu's social problems. i fully support the adoption of a single market strategy, the improvement of the exchange of information and good practice, and the financing of businesses, especially small and medium-sized ones, which are the engine of the european economy. it also needs to further encourage green investment and raise awareness of environmental and health issues. however, the biggest challenge will surely be the migration crisis, which requires a decisive and joint european response, and in this context i support the european agenda on migration, but i believe that additional support measures are necessary.
the european parliament resolution calls on the commission to encourage job creation as the unemployment rate remains very high. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's macro-financial assistance in the context of the union's macro-financial assistance to the countries of central and eastern europe. welcomes the adoption of the european fund for strategic investments and the european migration agenda by the commission and calls for the swift implementation of these programmes; the commission is invited to draw up a coherent and clear foreign and security policy strategy, which would seek to identify new and upcoming challenges facing the eu in a volatile security environment. the commission should present initiatives aimed at establishing a 2030 climate and energy framework for the purpose of concluding a global climate agreement. i supported parliament's resolution on the commission work programme for 2016 as we need an ambitious programme with a clear vision, direction and courage to face the many challenges of the union.
written. ‒ at a time when the eu is facing the greatest humanitarian crisis and security threat in its existence, it is the commission's duty to align its work with the union's current needs, contributing to continued cohesion and the overall improvement of the lives of eu citizens. the commission's work must therefore continue to focus on growth and employment, while keeping in mind the human person and his dignity, regardless of the external challenges facing the union. in supporting this resolution, i would like to commend the commission's efforts so far in the agricultural policy and wish to see the policy of rapid and adequate action continued in 2016 in response to the many challenges in this sector. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's macro-financial assistance to the countries of central and eastern europe, in particular the countries of the former soviet union, the former soviet union and the former soviet union. i believe that the commission must come forward in 2016 with proposals to reduce bureaucracy and remove regulatory burdens as a contribution to simplifying the cap. in addition, i expect the submission of appropriate initiatives and even legislative proposals that should contribute to reducing the extent of unfair trading practices in the food chain, but also to improving the overall quality of life in rural areas.
written. ‒ i support the resolution adopted as a result of long negotiations and compromise between the political groups in the european parliament. i am pleased that the views and positions of my political group have been recognised as a valuable contribution to the protection of our citizens. the commission's future work programmes should address key challenges of the 21st century such as climate change, energy independence, resource efficiency, the transition to a digital society, global competition, gender equality, while taking into account the cost of a disunited europe. i join the calls on the commission, given that the eu's main challenge remains to regain the trust of its citizens, which should be seen as a source of hope and a driver of sustainable growth, job creation and greater social cohesion, to use all its powers to lead the way in deepening european integration and to put forward an agenda to improve europe's economic recovery in a fair and inclusive single market while creating more quality jobs and reducing social inequalities. at a time when the european union is facing a growing number of crises, both within and outside its borders, coordinated action by all european institutions is of the utmost importance. i am therefore pleased that the european parliament, whose representatives, as the only ones directly elected by the citizens, bear a special responsibility in the efforts to overcome the current crises, has also expressed its common position in this resolution.
written. ‒ i support the joint resolution on the commission's work programme for 2016. the europe 2020 strategy remains a firm foundation for smart, sustainable and inclusive growth in the european union, which must respond to key challenges of the 21st century such as global competition, climate change, energy independence, resource efficiency and rising inequality and unemployment. it is necessary to direct financial resources towards political priorities but also in a balanced and, above all, flexible manner that will allow the budget to be adapted to unforeseen circumstances. we are witnessing a series of tragedies caused by the refugee crisis that has hit europe. we need to be better prepared for such situations and have strategies in place. in addition to the migration crisis mentioned above, the european union has been struggling for some time with an economic crisis that is causing, among other things, social problems. the european parliament, through this resolution, encourages the commission to devise a strong response to tackle these problems, in particular unemployment, skills shortages, social inequalities and exclusion, and the dangers of brain drain.
written. ‒ i support the resolution and call on the commission to make full use of its right of initiative. i also expect the commission to put forward a proposal for the next phase of the europe 2020 strategy for growth and jobs in response to the challenges and opportunities ahead. in the european year of development, the commission should deliver tangible results in africa and i call on the commission to develop and implement a follow-up action plan on the european consensus on humanitarian aid in order to ensure consistency and continuous joint implementation of its commitment to the humanitarian principles of humanity, impartiality, neutrality and independence. balanced trade agreements can serve to set the rules for globalisation, so i call on the commission to ensure that european standards are not compromised, and i would stress that trade must play an important role in fighting poverty and improving development abroad. i believe that removing barriers to trade and investment globally remains a key priority of the eu's trade strategy. i call on the commission to commit itself to combating unjustified protectionist measures. i would like to stress the importance of the transatlantic trade and investment partnership (ttip) and remind the commission of the importance of cooperation, transparency and exchange of information with parliament throughout the process.
written. ‒ the strategies outlined in this report assume a stronger role for the commission in overcoming the difficulties and challenges that lie ahead in the coming years. better work by the commission is better work by all the other institutions and i therefore particularly welcome the initiatives presented in this resolution which stress the importance of facilitating the implementation of adopted legislative measures. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the eu's energy strategy and will continue to monitor the implementation of the eu's energy strategy and the eu's energy strategy. the programmes and initiatives presented in this report cannot be implemented without adequate financial support, and therefore the report supports the importance of a financial restructuring of the commission's work as soon as possible, with greater involvement of the member states, so as not to stand in the way of projects such as horizon 2020 - the research and innovation programme that would increase the technological capabilities of the european economy and industry.
written. ‒ the epp, s&d, alde and green parliamentary groups are co-signatories to the joint resolutions on the commission's 2016 work programme. the resolution contains a number of aspects that can be supported, such as the requirement to respect the principle of subsidiarity, better legislation, consistent application of existing legislation, more efficient use of taxpayers' money, the fight against fraud, and the importance of the ttip agreement. however, i must express my strong disagreement with many of the aspects of the resolution. the commission's proposal for a regulation on the establishment of a european agency for fundamental rights (fra) is based on the principle of equal treatment for men and women.
written. ‒ i am glad that we supported the commission's proposal because we have shown that the eu helps its member states when they are faced with a problem with a european dimension. it also finances measures to receive and resettle refugees in order to relieve the burden on the border countries they enter. this news is also important for croatia, as the hungarian wall has redirected refugees to eastern slavonia and sri lanka. i'm proud of my slavs and the way they welcomed those unfortunate people, unlike orban who also announces walls against croatia. i expect the commission to help croatia, because we will need help.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the council decision introducing temporary measures in the area of international protection for the benefit of italy, greece and hungary because urgent and concrete measures are needed to provide an adequate and effective response to the refugee wave. surely those countries need help. we are witnessing that other member states, as well as macedonia and serbia, are facing major problems. the republic of croatia has received thousands of refugees, and i therefore believe that the european commission should react urgently by providing financial assistance to the member states of the union, third countries and refugee camps in the middle east. now more than ever, we need a united and coordinated approach to the crisis.
written. ‒ the refugee situation is becoming more serious by the day and a unanimous agreement is needed immediately as the number of refugees is increasing dramatically. the commission's main messages call on the member states to show solidarity, to share responsibilities equitably and to stress that the borders of the european union should remain protected under the rules of international agreements, but should not be closed because this would violate the values for which the union stands. i supported the european parliament resolution accepting the commission proposal to introduce temporary measures in the area of international protection for the benefit of italy, greece and hungary. this is a clear message from the parliament's representative to the council to convene a meeting as soon as possible so that the ministers of the member states can accept the measures, show solidarity with the refugees and unite. the proposal concerns 120,000 refugees who have fled conflict to the border countries of the european union. with equal responsibility, croatia should accept 1,064 people. with the closure of the hungarian-serbian border, refugees continued their journey to western europe through croatia and the situation is worrying since in the first two days, about 15 thousand refugees entered, for which the responsible institutions were not ready.
the european parliament adopted a proposal for the urgent relocation of 120 000 asylum seekers from italy, greece and hungary to other eu member states at an extraordinary plenary session in brussels, due to the overload of these three countries. more than 11,000 people entered croatia in one day, and the number is increasing by the minute, with as many as 80,000 refugees expected to arrive at the croatian border. the borders are not functioning as they should, entry into croatia is uncontrolled and through illegal crossings, and we are also witnessing that some of them do not want to stay in the safety of our reception centers, which all puts us in question whether they have hidden intentions. it was also noted that refugees from syria include those from areas not affected by the war (such as serbia and kosovo). we have to distinguish between war refugees and economic refugees. people who are really physically persecuted, who have been left homeless and have left their country out of sheer fear for their lives, those for whom the path they have taken was really the only way to stay alive, such people we have to give security and assistance and i expect the european commission to help croatia financially in providing that assistance.
written. ‒ i support the proposed council decision introducing temporary measures in the field of international protection to redistribute long-term refugees in the eu's border countries among the member states according to the proposed quotas and thus help in solidarity those member states which, due to their border situation, are most vulnerable to the increasing number of refugees arriving every day. i hope that the commission will also take into account as soon as possible the modified routes of movement of refugees, which include croatia, where thousands of migrants arrive every day, so that the same approach is applied to those countries. the problem of refugees and migrants is a european problem and the european union should take this position in its response.
‒ on 13 may 2015, the european commission presented a comprehensive european agenda on migration, highlighting the urgent measures to be proposed by the commission in response to the crisis situation in the mediterranean and the medium- and long-term initiatives to be taken to provide structural solutions to better manage all aspects of migration. the situation on the borders of the eastern mediterranean deteriorated dramatically in july and august 2015, when more than 137 000 illegal migrants were identified as having entered greece via the dodecanese and the north-eastern aegean islands (particularly kos and lesbos). similarly, more than 42 000 irregular migrants arrived in italy via the central mediterranean, and 78 472 migrants entered hungary via the hungarian-serbian border in the same period. the commission should also be able to provide information on the number of asylum applications submitted by third-country nationals in the member states, in particular on the number of asylum applications submitted by third-country nationals in the member states.
written. ‒ i am opposed to the urgency of this procedure, as i do not consider it sufficiently transparent; it does not allow for the possibility of committee discussion, the creation of a report, and time for constructive negotiation between the political groups. i also do not support the system of forced relocation, because i believe that a voluntary approach is the only appropriate one in cases like this. europe has a moral duty to help the displaced who cry out for refuge from the horrors of war. our leading role in the world must not be based on economic and scientific achievement alone, but also on a higher degree of humanity and empathy. i think we're all in agreement on that. but i am very unhappy with the messages that the union is sending at this moment because i have the feeling that certain political circles are using this terrible situation to promote their populist policies. clearly, such people are unable to understand that the best way we can help refugees is to use all our military and diplomatic capabilities to stop the war in their homeland and then help them rebuild the society they once had. all that remains is a fire-fighting measure that, given the increased security threat in these chaotic conditions, could very easily cost both refugees and their european hosts.
vice-president of the commission.– madam president, on behalf of the commission, i would like to thank parliament for supporting the proposal to amend the common provisions regulation as regards specific measures for greece. the proposal is an exceptional measure to address the unique situation in greece. the commission’s proposal follows the agreement reached in july at the euro summit. the agreement reached between co-legislators to maintain the commission proposal – and the exceptional speed which with which they processed this – is a concrete sign of european solidarity. the proposal must be seen in the wider context of the reform process undertaken by greece. timely and effective implementation of reforms to modernise the state and the economy, as agreed under the third programme, is crucial to ensure financial stability, fiscal sustainability and sound economic fundamentals for investment, job creation and growth. it is crucial to dispel any uncertainty and ensure a sound financial sector. with capital controls in place, the financing streams of the real economy are strained at a time when investment is needed most. the eu funds have an important role in this respect. there are substantial means available from the eu budget for greece but the implementation of the project, co-financed with eu funds, is held back by the tight liquidity situation of the greek state. to help address this situation we have put forward three exceptional measures so that the investment supported by eu funds can take place, and take place swiftly. for the 2014-2020 period, it is proposed to increase the rate of initial pre—financing for greece by seven percentage points for the european regional development fund, the cohesion fund, the european social fund and the european maritime and fisheries fund. this frontloading should allow for starting more investments earlier. for the 2007-2013 period, two measures are proposed: firstly to release the last five percent of the remaining eu payments, which are normally retained until the closure of the programmes in 2017 and, secondly, to remove the obligation to provide for national cofinancing and to apply the 100% eu financing rate. these measures should help bring the investment finance for the 2007-2013 period to a successful conclusion. all these measures would translate into eur 2 billion available for greece over the two years 2015 and 2016. importantly, these measures are budget-neutral for the current multiannual financial framework and would have no impact on the payment plan either. the additional pre-financing for the 2014-2020 programmes should be covered by payment application by the end of 2016. it is, of course, crucial to ensure that the money duly reaches the beneficiaries and does so as quickly as possible in line with the rules of sound financial management. to this end, a ring-fencing mechanism will ensure that additional amounts for the 2007-2013 period are used only for payments to beneficiaries. greece has already put such a mechanism in place. moreover, greece is required to report on the implementation of these measures by the end of 2016 and in the final implementation report for the 2007-2013 period. the commission has stood by greece throughout the crisis with both financial support and technical assistance. we will continue to support greece, both in the implementation of the reforms and in making the best use of eu funds. technical assistance is already being provided through the new structural reform support service which is available to all eu member states. technical meetings and ad hoc missions on the ground are being organised. as it happens, commissioner crețu is in greece today. i am looking forward to your debate.
the commission has also taken note of the fact that the greek authorities have not yet provided the commission with a full explanation of the reasons for the delay in the adoption of the measures. greece must implement reforms that the tsipras government has been running away from in the last term, and voters recently rewarded it for such behavior. i believe therefore that in the coming period there will be no significant improvement in the implementation of structural reforms, which makes our efforts to help greece a bit futile. the commission notes that the greek authorities have not provided any evidence that the restructuring plan is in line with the restructuring plan. i believe that to be true, but i must express my disagreement with such a strategy. increasing government spending is certainly not going to get the country out of the crisis because it's such irresponsible behavior that got it into it. for our efforts to make any sense, the new greek government must attract private investors and strengthen the private sector at the expense of the public. is the tsipras government ready for that? what measures does it plan to take to achieve this? i fear that in the long run, these moves are not helping our friends and partners in greece, but pushing them deeper into the abyss. if greece had not been a member of the eurozone, which it was admitted to under questionable circumstances, it would have been much harder to get into debt all these years and would be in much less trouble today. we may have stopped giving the greeks unconditional gifts of european taxpayers' money, but we continue to encourage them to overspend with formulations like this that public investment sets as a prerequisite for sustainable recovery. the commission notes that the greek authorities have not provided any evidence that the restructuring plan is in line with the restructuring plan. everything else is a mere livelihood that both the greeks and the european taxpayers are tired of.
on behalf of the alde club. madam president, commissioner, i will say at the outset that this is an excellent commission proposal. it is timely, it recognises the problems that greece has been facing for many years and the commission has shown maturity at this point, and i would say that parliament will, apparently, do the same. this parliament will take all the necessary decisions under the accelerated procedure to express the solidarity of the european union, the commission and parliament and all those who are making decisions to the greek people at this time, and to help all those we know in need of help in greece. in this context, the alde club, on whose behalf i am speaking, supports this accelerated procedure. our rapporteur, the chair of the committee on regional development, has done all she can. at our committee meeting, we saw the need for an expedited procedure without much formality, everything at our disposal, with the very purpose and the sole desire to help greece. it is estimated that this will save some two billion euros for the greek budget, and that an additional one billion will accumulate for the needs of the cohesion and structural funds, as well as the maritime and fisheries fund. that's a significant amount of money. it will not solve all the problems in greece, but it will be a very concrete and clear means that will bring a new chance for greece and for the greek government from which we expect a lot. the greek government has gone to the polls, recently regained its confidence. cyprus has spoken here in parliament, he has promised reforms. we're looking forward to those reforms. we expect the new government to respond in the way we have shown. we have shown solidarity, we have shown a determination to help greece, but we also expect the greek government to fulfil its promises to europe and in doing so to do what we all expect that greece becomes a real part of our great european family again. it's an emergency, and an emergency calls for an emergency measure. we did it. we now await greece's moves. ((the speaker agreed to answer the question 'blue card' (article 162 (8) of the regulation)).
answer the question posed by raising the blue card. i have read the opinion of the committee on budgets, i have seen that there are appropriate reserves in the committee on budgets, but i believe that what the commission has proposed, and the way we have dealt with it in the committee on regional development, guarantees that this money will be spent properly because otherwise we will, of course, have to react. so i think, as i said in my speech, that this is a good proposal and that it should be implemented.
member of the commission.– madam president, as this assembly knows, policy is local and, as with any other policy, development cooperation policy also has to be local. that is why i would like to thank parliament for its resolution on the role of local authorities in development cooperation. it highlights a common belief that the roots of democracy and well-being are local. development starts at the local level. most jobs, basic social services, political and civic rights are provided first and foremost in cities or regions or through local branches of government. moreover, i agree with the resolution where it states that, in order to be adequate and legitimate, policies have to be defined through a bottom-up approach. this means that they have to start with local authorities. i am convinced that the newly adopted 2030 agenda for sustainable development can only be of benefit if all actors are involved and mobilised. to that end, all public and private representatives, including local authorities, have to be involved in the implementation of the sustainable development goals. the world’s urban population will reach 70% by 2050. having a specific goal dedicated to urbanisation is therefore of crucial importance. but beyond the specific sustainable development goal, cities will be the frontline of all other issues, including migration, environmental sustainability, climate resilience, fragility and inequalities. local authorities will need human, institutional and financial resources to fulfil their missions. the transfer of financial resources from central governments remains a difficult aspect of decentralisation, and it is often overlooked. all these issues are a question of sovereignty. we will address this through our political dialogue with partner countries, with the objective of ensuring coherent and efficient implementation. since 2013, the commission has been working on empowering local authorities in partner countries for enhanced governance and more effective development outcomes. this work will now be intensified. we have started to deliver on this commitment following four priorities, which are: supporting decentralisation reforms and local initiatives; strengthening the capacity of local authorities; addressing the challenges brought to the fore by rapid urbanisation; and engaging with associations of local authorities at all levels. these priorities are all covered by the resolution to be adopted in parliament. as an example of our cooperation, in january this year the commission signed the first framework partnership agreements with five global and regional associations of local authorities. these agreements formalise our reinforced support. we are also backing up our political commitment by providing adequate resources: eur 450 million has already been secured from the dedicated programme of the instrument for development cooperation on civil society organisations and local authorities. all eu instruments are gradually taking local governments into account as well. approximately eur 1.7 billion will be used to support decentralisation reforms, rural development and local governance in the period up to 2020. these precious resources must be used to ensure delivery and concrete results in empowering local authorities in the implementation of development cooperation.
on behalf of the ppe club. madam president, here we are ten days ago at the united nations summit, where heads of state and government adopted a new sustainable development agenda. a consensus was reached on a global development strategy. a great deal of work has been done, but now the much more difficult, challenging part is to fulfill promises or to transform words into deeds. implementing as many as 17 sustainable development goals is a major challenge and requires the formation of a global partnership involving all actors. so that is why i want to support the rapporteur and congratulate her on this report which deals with the important actors of global development, i.e. local authorities. in its report on the new global development framework adopted last november, the european parliament highlighted local authorities as key actors in both the creation and implementation of the new development agenda. the report by ms theocharous confirms the position of the member of this house that good governance is needed at all levels of government local, national and international in order to achieve development goals, eradicate poverty and ensure a life of dignity for all people. in the final document adopted in new york, a separate objective 11 on sustainable urban development was also adopted. it is clear that the implementation of this objective is only possible with close cooperation with local authorities. but the involvement of local authorities must not be limited to this objective. local authorities are key to achieving all the other objectives, but also to collecting data, measuring results for transparency and accountability. not only can local governments best understand the need for local people as the level of power closest to the citizens, decentralisation of power is also an effective means of fighting corruption, building democracy and protecting human rights, which is what many developing countries need most.
on behalf of the ecr club. madam president, i could agree in principle with the spirit of this resolution, as i myself have often stressed that decisions that are crucial to the lives of citizens should be taken as close as possible to them and their families. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's macro-financial assistance to the countries of central and eastern europe, in particular through the european neighbourhood instrument (eni) and the european neighbourhood instrument (eni) and the european neighbourhood instrument (eni) and the european neighbourhood instrument (eni). however, i cannot help but notice that the approach proposed in this text is based on incorrect assumptions. the commission notes that the commission has not provided any evidence that the tax exemption for the private sector is justified by the nature of the tax system in question. it is small and medium-sized enterprises that need to take the lead and be the engines of growth in developing countries, while local governments need to pave the way for them by reducing taxes and administrative burdens.
on behalf of the alde club. madam vice-president, mr commissioner of the european commission, back in the 1990s when i was very involved in the political life of croatia, i preached and few people listened to me. i must say that the role of local and regional authorities can be crucial for the faster development of a country, for tackling unemployment, for stronger social, economic or environmental policies. also, another experience i had when i was vice-president of arlem, when we had cooperation with the southern mediterranean coast in that organisation which brings together regional and local authorities of the european union and regional and local authorities of the southern mediterranean, it was seen how important it is for them to have direct relations and direct cooperation with us. it is in this context that i am convinced that what commissioner mimica has said, who knows me well and who knows how much i have advocated the importance and role of regional and local authorities in croatia, is precisely the examples he has given that we must take into account the two principles, the principle of subsidiarity and the principle of decentralisation, in cooperation with our partners in the developing countries. i propose that the european commission really do encourage the maximum cooperation between our cities, our big cities, but also smaller cities because rural areas in developing countries are also important for strengthening democracy, for strengthening development, precisely to encourage the cooperation and exchange of experiences that big cities in europe have, and that big cities in african countries need, for example cairo, which really needs our help in, for example, its business planning. it does not always have to be financial, it can be given in many other ways, by the flow of experiences that our cities, municipalities and rural areas have achieved in the european union. and in this way we can help our partners in developing countries. i think we have a good document and on this basis we can achieve a good policy of cooperation with developing countries.
madam president, we regulate the size of the letters on the cans that contain meat products, we regulate the various labels and we regulate a lot of things, and we have maximum coloring on banks, banking services and banking products. this is the case of spain, the case of greece, the case of cyprus, but also the case of croatia, where mortgage loans in swiss francs have destroyed citizens. it's a classic bank scam. the small, tiny letters, there's no regulation anywhere about what the letters should be when you take bank loans, but on the canned meat and the origin of the meat and the goods that are in those cans, there we regulate something. it is in this context that we need new legislation and we need to make it clear that such banking fraud simply cannot pass through the european union.
mr. president, dual-use items are a topic we've already discussed in this house, in this chamber, but i don't think we've gone much further. namely, this hacking team case had to happen in order to bring this topic back on the agenda and to reopen a series of questions about our general security, and especially our personal security, and those of us who live in the european union, and especially those who live in the countries where these technologies are sold. they can then be used in a variety of other countries, not necessarily just in the countries where they're sold. i would remind you that this is a danger for those of us who live in the european union. we can create enormous, terrible problems for ourselves. in this context, i expect the commission, not only because it has handed everything over to the member states but also because it has a share of responsibility, to come to this parliament with concrete ideas and proposals.
mr president, the integration of the six western balkan countries into the european union is a common interest. better transport and energy connectivity between these countries will contribute not only to economic growth but also to their better understanding of each other. the inclusion of these countries in the large european transport network ten-t will connect these countries to europe, but will also connect the member states to each other. maintaining a high level of support among the citizens of these countries for their countries' integration into the european union is certainly a very important added value on the path of these countries towards the ultimate goal, which is membership of the european union. i therefore call on the european commission to further develop the connectivity plan developed in cooperation with these countries and, in particular, to work diligently on the implementation of the ten priority projects developed under that plan.
mr president, i want to give my full support to the rapporteur and the committee. i think this is an extraordinary topic. as we have done in the agricultural sector, so we should do in the non-agricultural sector. i'm all for upholding the authenticity of the product. when it comes to croatia's agriculture, we had non-retvan mandarin and istrian prut and recently personal potatoes, but when it comes to intangible heritage, we also have slavonic goldfinch and pasha lace and brother stone, and i want to inaugurate today the konavala link, the konava link from the dubrovnik area. so it's up to us to support this because the fact and the projection that they're talking about four million new jobs is not to be dismissed. so we have to support small craft, we have to support small and micro enterprises because that is what our european economy is based on.
mr president, mr juncker, when you presented your programme you said that the european union had 29 members. the 29th member's space is not imaginary because it is made up of unemployed and disenfranchised europeans. today, we can freely add to these unfortunate groups - refugees. in today's world, there are no longer local or regional crises; all crises today have the potential to become global crises. this refugee crisis in europe is a clear indication of that. the european union is clearly divided on this issue. only five member states accept about 70 percent of the refugees. the crisis has also put us under great pressure by highlighting how european institutions function well under normal conditions but poorly and slowly respond to sudden problems. for example, croatia is the only member of the european union that is exposed to thousands of refugees without being part of the schengen area. instead of solidarity, we are faced with political harassment, barbed wire and the militarization of the border by another eu member state. it all comes down to the question of what kind of society we want to live in and what kind of image the european union wants to have in the world.
written. the conclusions of the informal european council meeting last september contributed to a step forward in tackling the migrant crisis. however, that step forward is not a sufficient step. to find a solution, we need to acknowledge two things: that the size of the refugee wave in the eu has taken everyone by surprise, and that there are very large differences between member states. as it is realistic that the wave of refugees will not stop soon, we must create a permanent system of solutions for the reception of refugees. we must do everything possible to ensure that the refugee problem is tackled primarily by stabilising the situation in the countries of origin. we also need to help all the countries involved in this crisis: turkey, lebanon and jordan. it is important that the eu also stands with serbia and macedonia to help these countries in their efforts.
mr president, the refugee crisis has shown the weakness of our european policies. asylum policy is not politics. it's just protocol that's not being followed. the schengen regime has been completely dismantled at the external borders of the european union and partially suspended at the internal borders. i remember the crisis of the 1990s in the former yugoslavia when croatia - a small country with a third of its occupied territory, exposed to aggression - solved the problem of 600,000 refugees from bosnia and herzegovina from its territory, more than arrived in the european union as a whole during this period. and it was not the european union that solved the problem of the war in bosnia and herzegovina, but an outside power. the situation is similar today. countries are solving their own problems, and some outside forces are working to solve the crisis in their own way. and just as the crisis in the former yugoslavia led to a common european security and defence policy, i expect this crisis to lead to new and better common european policies.
mr president, it is certain that the last european council meeting has made a great step forward. it is certain that the commission's position all along during the refugee crisis is an excellent one in that it really wants to resolve this very difficult situation. however, what we cannot escape is that we have come to this situation completely unprepared. both the commission, the member states and the european union as a whole... have been caught off guard by this situation and have unfortunately also seen the great differences between us. what i want to emphasize in particular is that the european union needs to take a much stronger role in the world in resolving the totality of this situation. i would also like to stress that non-member countries in the western balkans such as serbia and fyrom (macedonia) have done more than some member countries. and i want to emphasize that turkey and lebanon and jordan are doing it. indeed, the european union and its member states must think hard about their position in the coming months, for this crisis is sure to continue.
written. ‒ i support any report that addresses the issue of improving worker protection and tackling forced labour. the very fact that the committee report was adopted by unanimous decision of the members present speaks volumes about the importance of this issue and the need to improve worker protection.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the draft legislative resolution of the european parliament on the draft council decision authorising member states to ratify, in the interest of the european union, the protocol of 2014 to the forced labour convention, 1930 of the international labour organisation, in relation to articles 1 to 4 of the protocol relating to matters relating to judicial cooperation in criminal matters, as it reconciles disparities in implementation processes in that area and improves mechanisms to prevent trafficking in labour. the protocol insists on the creation of national policies and action plans to combat forced labour more effectively and continuously. the protocol also provides for measures to support and assist victims. i therefore support that recommendation, which encourages further respect for fundamental rights and improves the overall state of the economy and society.
‒ the forced labour convention is one of the eight core conventions of the international labour organisation (ilo) that defines international labour standards and is considered an instrument for ensuring human rights. the protocol requires ilo member states to adopt national policies and action plans for the effective and equitable abolition of forced labour and creates measures to implement the provisions of the protocol. it also sets out measures that ilo member states must implement to prevent forced labour by educating and informing people and by applying legislation to prevent forced labour and protect people from potentially fraudulent employment. the protocol provides for certain measures for the identification, release, protection, recovery and rehabilitation of victims, together with other forms of assistance and support. i supported the report of representative stevens approving the protocol because i believe that forced labor is against fundamental human rights. ratification of the protocol is necessary to make progress in preventing trafficking in human beings, labour exploitation and the protection and compensation of victims of forced labour.
written. ‒ the original convention on forced labour entered into force almost 100 years ago, but forced labour still affects some 21 million people worldwide. contrary to popular belief, the european union is not exempt from forced labor, with a rate of 7 percent of people working against their will. cases of forced domestic workers or agricultural workers have been found in all eu countries. not only is forced labor a violation of basic human rights but it also generates illegal profits of at least $150 billion a year, according to a report by the international labor organization. thus, it is a crime that affects not only the individual but also society and the world economy. the ratification of the 2014 protocol is an important step in the fight against forced labour worldwide and in the european union, as well as an important step in the fight against crimes closely related to forced labour, such as trafficking in human beings, prostitution and child pornography. i therefore welcome and have supported the recommendation on a draft council decision authorising member states to ratify, in the interest of the european union, the protocol on matters within the european union's competence relating to judicial cooperation in criminal matters.
written. ‒ as the republic of croatia has been a member of the international labour organisation since 1992 and a signatory, inter alia, to the 1930 forced labour convention, i fully support the draft council decision to ratify the 2014 protocol which further elaborates and adapts to the modern context the provisions on the prevention of trafficking in human beings for forced labour and on the protection of its victims. today, almost 80 years after the adoption of that convention, forced labor remains a harsh reality for tens of millions of people around the world. the european union, as a community of developed sovereign democratic states, must make its position clearer than ever and enable concrete steps to be taken to combat trafficking and exploitation of human beings. the commission should also be able to assess the impact of the 2014 protocol on the functioning of the internal market, in particular by examining the impact of the 2014 protocol on the functioning of the internal market. the union's policy on forced labour should be based on the principle of non-discrimination and the principle of equal treatment.
written. ‒ the forced labour convention is one of the ilo's eight core conventions that form the basic international labour standards and is considered a human rights tool. the ilo estimates that globally at least 20.9 million people are victims of forced labor. the protocol thus seeks to address shortcomings in implementation and to make progress in the prevention of trafficking in human beings and the exploitation of human beings for work, as well as in the protection and compensation of victims of forced labour. the protocol requires ilo member states to develop a national policy and action plan to effectively combat forced labour and to take measures to implement the provisions of the protocol, in agreement with employers' and workers' organisations. the measures to be taken by the member states to prevent forced labour are also indicated and legislation to prevent forced labour is ensured. this is particularly true for workers in all sectors of the economy, and in particular migrant workers, from potentially abusive and fraudulent employment, and the risk of forced labour. the protocol addresses fundamental rights, victims and the fight against trafficking in human beings, a crime that affects not only individuals but also societies and economies as a whole. i therefore support the report, because ratification of this protocol is an important step in the fight against trafficking in human beings and in ensuring the rights of victims of crime throughout europe.
written. ‒ this explanation of the vote arises as a criticism of the existing system of evaluating the work of meps in the european parliament solely on the basis of the statistical number of parliamentary activities promoted in croatia, which does not actually reflect the actual quality and quantity of work, efficiency and above all the success of the representative action.
written. ‒ i support the recommendation to ratify the 2014 protocol to the 1930 forced labour convention on the grounds that slavery and forced labour are still a major and intractable global problem. according to the latest data and projections, it is assumed that there are currently about 20.9 million people in the world who are victims of forced labor, which is unacceptable. in this regard, the protocol has the function of making progress in the prevention of trafficking in human beings for the purpose of forced labour, identifying existing shortcomings in the implementation of policies and legislation that combat forced labour, as well as protecting and compensating victims. the protocol on the status of refugees ('the protocol') provides for the abolition of the death penalty for all persons subject to forced labour. also, education and information should prevent forced labor and its illegal use, create appropriate legislation in all branches of the economy, protect all workers, especially migrants, and help victims of forced labor in any way possible by compensating for material and mental damage. in view of the above, ratification of this protocol is of the utmost importance.
‒ the forced labour convention is one of the eight fundamental conventions of the international labour organisation (ilo) which constitute the main international labour standards. according to estimates by the international labour organization (ilo), there are more than 20 million victims of forced labour worldwide, a frightening fact. this decision allows member states to ratify the parts of the protocol which fall within the competence of the european union. the protocol requires member states to adopt national plans in cooperation with trade unions and employers' associations, in order to effectively combat forced labour. in addition, member states must educate all relevant stakeholders and ensure the protection of workers' rights in all sectors of the economy. the european parliament shall give its assent before the member states can ratify this protocol. i support this draft decision which can help prevent trafficking in human beings for the purpose of forced labour, as well as contribute to the protection and compensation of victims of forced labour.
written. ‒ i supported the protocol to the forced labour convention because i believe that its adoption and implementation can address the shortcomings in the implementation of the convention, which aims primarily to prevent trafficking in human beings for forced labour and to protect victims of forced labour. i strongly support the call for member states to take measures to prevent forced labour, such as education and information of people and protection of people from potentially offensive and false employment, as such crimes affect both individuals and entire economies. given that at least 20.9 million people are victims of forced labour, i believe that it is of the utmost importance that these recommendations are implemented, especially in terms of punishing the perpetrators and depriving them of the benefits of forced labour. i believe that this modern slavery can only be eradicated by ensuring international legal assistance and information exchange.
written. ‒ i support this report and the ban because 4-methylamphetamine is a derivative of amphetamine which, according to official eu statistics, is responsible for 21 deaths caused by abuse. young people are the target group of consumers and as such suffer the most harm from consumption. deaths have been reported across europe, and recently a teenager died in croatia in the middle of drinking. some of the compounds on the market are extremely potent and can cause effects such as high blood pressure, paranoia, psychosis, nausea, seizures, and in some cases death. the most serious consequences occur because the active substance is incorrectly distributed throughout the product during mixing and drying. as a result, some packaging is many times stronger and more harmful than normal. the common market and the abolition of borders have brought europe many benefits, but in this case that freedom has negative side effects. the member states cannot tackle the problem of 'legal drugs' on their own because they cannot keep track of the speed at which new compounds are emerging.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the draft legislative resolution of the european parliament on the draft council implementing decision on the control measures for 4-methylamphetamine because it is clear from the current information and knowledge that 4-methylamphetamine causes serious psychological and health effects such as anorexia, insomnia, hyperthermia, depression and many others. the commission has also identified a number of potential risks to the health of consumers, including the risk of exposure to methamphetamine, as a possible source of exposure to methamphetamine. in addition, 4-methylamphetamine is produced and distributed by the same organised crime groups that are involved in the trafficking of methamphetamine. therefore, i strongly support the imposition of control measures on 4-methylamphetamine for the safety of all citizens of the european union.
written. ‒ the report by mep michał bonia discusses the subjecting of 4-methylamphetamine to control measures after the scientific committee of the european monitoring centre for drugs and drug addiction conducted a risk assessment. i supported the report because of the importance of tackling drug abuse, which is a major problem for the union. 4-methylamphetamine is produced in the illicit amphetamine market and is used and sold as a controlled drug amphetamine. it has similar effects to other stimulants, and 21 deaths have been recorded, alone or in combination with one or more substances, especially amphetamines.
written. ‒ according to the european monitoring centre for drugs and drug addiction, between 6500 and 8500 deaths are recorded in europe each year as a direct result of excessive, irregular and illicit drug use. across the european union, and in the republic of croatia as well, cannabis is the most commonly used drug, followed by amphetamines. 4-methylamphetamine is a derivative of amphetamine, created in the illegal amphetamine market where it is sold. this hazardous substance has been detected in 15 member states of the european union, while one country has also reported production on its territory. although extensive data on the effects of the use of the substance are not yet available, limited scientific evidence points to numerous health risks associated with the use of this drug, especially in combination with other substances, when it becomes life-threatening. i therefore fully support the commission's decision to subject this new psychoactive substance, 4-methylamphetamine, to additional control measures across the european union and have therefore supported this report.
written. ‒ 4-methylamphetamine is a synthetic derivative of amphetamine that is most commonly sold and used illegally as amphetamine. it's manufactured and resold by the same criminal groups. so far, 21 deaths have been reported directly related to the use of this substance. the current regulatory system at european level shows that, despite the dangers posed to humans, only 8 member states control 4-methylamphetamine within the overall legal framework for drug testing. in view of the fatal consequences that this substance can cause and the lack of control at european level, i agree with parliament's recommendation and support the proposal to introduce a single control system at european level.
written. ‒ 25i-nbome, ah-7921, mdpv and methoxetamine are chemicals that have been shown to cause toxicity in humans and have been found in a number of member states as substances associated with deaths and detected in post-mortem causes. some member states use legal measures to control them, but all citizens in all member states need to be protected. the risk assessment report shows that further studies will be needed to determine the health and social risks of 4-methylmethylphetamine. the commission has not received any information from the member states or from the applicant concerning the use of 4-methylmethylamphetamine in the union. as a result of the health risks it poses, as documented by the discovery of several reported deaths, the fact that it can be consumed unconsciously by users and the lack of medical value or use, this chemical should be subject to control measures in the union. the commission has also received comments from the member states on the measures taken to control 25i-nbome, ah-7921, mdpv and methoxetamine.
written. ‒ this explanation of the vote arises as a criticism of the existing system of evaluating the work of meps in the european parliament solely on the basis of the statistical number of parliamentary activities promoted in croatia, which does not actually reflect the actual quality and quantity of work, efficiency and above all the success of the representative action.
written. ‒ i support this report because it is clear from the reports and findings of many relevant european health institutions on 4-methylamphetamine that this substance should be subject to control measures in the european union. the substance that has been shown to be dangerous to human health and that has already caused 21 deaths in europe is actually a stimulant derivative of amphetamine that has been tested for appetite suppression. today, it appears on the eu market as a dangerous drug - a type of amphetamine. as it is a substance that is produced and sold as a drug on illegal markets, especially via the internet, and as one member state has discovered how this drug is also produced on its territory, it should be banned and not allowed to reach citizens, especially children. the positive thing so far is that as many as eight member states have brought this apparently new drug under control of their drug control laws, and other member states should do the same.
written. ‒ i support the introduction of surveillance measures for 4-methylamphetamine. 4-methylamphetamine is a synthetic derivative mainly found in powder or paste form, but also appears in tablet and liquid form. it has emerged in the illegal drug market where it is sold and used as a controlled drug amphetamine. the effects of ingestion and combination of 4-methylamphetamine with other substances, including amphetamine and caffeine, may cause an increased risk of toxicity to the body. the number of deaths from the substance in the union is estimated to be around 20 in the union as a whole. the commission has assessed the safety of 4-methylamphetamine in the union by examining the safety of the active substance in the food and feed chain. the commission should also be able to assess the impact of the measures on the supply of 4-methylamphetamine to the union market, in particular by identifying the potential risks associated with the supply of 4-methylamphetamine to the union market.
written. ‒ i supported the report that 4-methylamphetamine be subject to control measures, as this would ban the production of this psychoactive substance and make its use a criminal offence. the commission has also identified a number of other potential risks associated with the use of the substance in the union. scientific studies conducted by the european monitoring centre for drugs and drug addiction have shown that this substance has similar effects on the human body and drug-like behaviour, such as increased blood pressure, nausea, headache, insomnia, paranoia, anxiety and depression. since the substance has not been proven to have any medicinal value, i believe that this ban will enhance the health security of eu citizens and the fight against cross-border crime.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the draft legislative resolution of the european parliament on the draft council implementing decision to subject 5- (((2-aminopropyl) indole to control measures due to the acute toxicity of that substance and the harmful effects it may have on the human body. the substance is not used for medical purposes and has no established medical benefit. increased availability of it would certainly mean greater threats to individuals and public health, but further research is needed to establish the exact health and social threats. therefore, i strongly support the imposition of control measures on 5- ((2-aminopropyl) indole for the safety of all citizens of the european union.
written. ‒ i supported the report by mep teresa jiménez-becerril barrio because of the importance of tackling drug abuse, which is a major problem, especially among young people across the union. it stresses the importance of further studies on the health effects of 5- (((2-aminopropyl) indole, but the analyses to date already show the need to subject it to control measures in the union. the scientific committee of the european monitoring centre for drugs and drug addiction has carried out a risk assessment and concluded that this substance is a stimulant that can have hallucinogenic effects and can be found in powder and tablet form. the use of 5-[2-aminopropyl]indole alone or in combination with other substances has led to 24 deaths in four member states and six member states have already introduced legislation to control it.
written. ‒ i support the proposal to subject the psychoactive substance 5- ((2-aminopropyl) indole to additional controls across the european union as the available evidence and information indicate the need to subject this dangerous substance to additional controls. as a result of the health risk posed by this substance, which has been identified and proven in several reported deaths, and the fact that it can be consumed unconsciously by users and lacking in medical value, 5-[2-aminopropyl]indole should be subject to controls throughout the european union. the detection of 5-[2-aminopropyl]indole was reported by nine european countries to the emcdda and europol. the commission has not received any comments from interested parties on the use of 5- (2-aminopropyl) indole in the union. the risk assessment reports reveal that there is limited scientific evidence available on the hazard of 5-[2-aminopropyl]indole and therefore the need for further studies to determine the health and social risks posed by it is highlighted. it is precisely because of the dangers this psychoactive substance carries with it that i feel it necessary to subject it to additional control measures.
written. ‒ so far, 24 deaths have been reported directly related to the use of this substance. the current regulatory system at european level shows that despite the hazards this substance poses to humans, only 6 member states control 5-[2-aminopropyl]indole within the overall legal framework for testing the substance. in view of the fatal consequences that 5- (((2-aminopropyl) indole can cause, as well as the lack of control at european level, i agree with parliament's recommendation and support the proposal to introduce a single control system at european level.
written. ‒ in accordance with the council decision on the exchange of information, risk assessment and control of new psychoactive substances, the scientific committee of the european monitoring centre for drugs and drug addiction (emcdda) is assessing the risks of the new psychoactive substance 5- (2-aminopropyl) indole. the substance 5- (2-aminopropyl) indole is a synthetic derivative of indole, and is a known substance that may also have hallucinogenic effects. 5- (((2-aminopropyl) indole is mainly found in powder form, but also in tablet and capsule form and is commercially available on the internet. the available data indicate the toxicity of 5- ((2-aminopropyl) indole and the potential to produce adverse effects in humans. in four member states, a total of 24 deaths were recorded in which 5-[2-aminopropyl]indole, alone or in combination with other substances, was detected in post-mortem samples from april to august 2012. therefore, further studies are urgently needed to establish the health and social risks posed by 5-[2-aminopropyl]indole. i support the report that 5- (((2-aminopropyl) indole should be subject to control measures throughout the union.
written. ‒ this explanation of the vote arises as a criticism of the existing system of evaluating the work of meps in the european parliament solely on the basis of the statistical number of parliamentary activities promoted in croatia, which does not actually reflect the actual quality and quantity of work, efficiency and above all the success of the representative action.
written. ‒ i support the report because i believe that 5- ((2-aminopropyl) indole is a harmful substance that should be subject to control measures in the european union, given that 24 people have died from it in the last few years, mostly in sweden. it is a substance that is dangerous to human health and is now appearing on the eu market as a dangerous psychoactive drug. as it is a substance that is produced and sold as a drug in illegal markets, and especially via the internet, it must be banned and not allowed to reach citizens, especially children. the positive thing is that six member states have already brought this new drug under control of their drug control laws, and other member states should do the same. unfortunately, this drug is currently not sufficiently known to the public, the available scientific evidence on it is limited, but as it is known to be a substance that is harmful to the human body and mind, this drug should be suppressed and prohibited by laws at national level in all eu member states.
written. ‒ i support the imposition of surveillance measures for 5- ((2-aminopropyl) indole. 5-{2-aminopropyl) indole is a stimulant that has hallucinogenic effects and causes various adverse effects on human health. in four member states, 24 deaths and 21 poisonings have been reported in connection with this new psychoactive substance. if this new psychoactive substance becomes widely available, the consequences for society and public health could be significant. the commission has assessed the safety of 5- ((2-aminopropyl) indole in the union by examining the safety of the active substance 5- ((2-aminopropyl) indole) in the food and feed industries. i support the commission's position, and these substances should be subject to control measures and criminal sanctions as provided for in the 1971 united nations convention on psychotropic substances, for the purpose of combating harmful synthetic substances.
written. ‒ i supported the report that 5- ((2-aminopropyl) indole be subject to surveillance measures, as a scientific study by the european monitoring centre for drugs and drug addiction has found that this substance is a psychotic substance that affects the central nervous system, just like illegal drugs. it has been found to induce hallucinations, changes in thinking, behavior, perception, consciousness, and mood, and thus provides a legal alternative to illegal drugs such as cocaine or ecstasy. in view of the harmful effects which this substance may cause, i consider that its dissemination must be prevented in order to avoid mislabelling of this substance and thus circumventing consumer protection legislation.
written. ‒ i support this report and the ban because according to official statistics, 5-2-aminopropyl indole has caused 24 deaths in the eu since august 2012. young people are the target group of consumers and as such suffer the most harm from consumption. deaths have been reported across europe, and recently a teenager died in croatia in the middle of drinking. some of the compounds on the market are extremely potent and can cause effects such as high blood pressure, paranoia, psychosis, nausea, seizures, and in some cases, death. the most serious consequences occur because the active substance is incorrectly distributed throughout the product during mixing and drying. as a result, some packaging is many times stronger and more harmful than normal. the common market and the abolition of borders have brought europe many benefits, but in this case that freedom has negative side effects. the member states cannot tackle the problem of 'legal drugs' on their own because they cannot keep track of the speed at which new compounds are emerging.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the draft legislative resolution of the european parliament on the draft council implementing decision to subject the substances 4-iodine-2,5-dimethoxy-n-(2-methoxybenzyl) phenethylamine (251-nbome), 3,4-dichloro-n-[[1-[[dimethylamino]]cyclohexyl]methyl]benzamide (ah-7921), 3,4-methylenedioxypyrovaleron (mdpv) and 2-[[3-methoxine]]-2-fil (methylamino) cyclohexane (methylaminoxete) to control measures because the acute and chronic toxicity of those substances can cause significant harm to the human body. on the other hand, the psychological consequences and the potential for addiction make them even more dangerous, despite the limited data available. in addition, the increased availability and use of such substances could have serious consequences for individuals and public health. therefore, i strongly support the subjecting of 251-nbome, ah-7921, mdpv and methoxetamine to control measures for the safety of all citizens of the european union.
written. ‒ twenty-two member states and norway have reported the detection of 25i-nbome and four deaths have been recorded as a result of the substance. the effects of ah-7921, alone or in combination with other substances, have caused 15 deaths in three member states. mdvp has effects similar to cocaine and methamphetamine. the commission has also adopted a communication on the implementation of the eu's action plan for the prevention of the spread of the disease, which aims to improve the prevention of the spread of the disease by preventing and combating the spread of the disease. methotrexate is used as a substitute for ketamine and was the cause of 21 deaths. i supported the report by member of parliament teresa jiménez-becerril barrio on the subjecting of 25i-nbome, ah-7921, mdpv and methoxetamine to control measures.
written. ‒ due to the health risks posed by 25i-nbom, ah-7921, mdpv and methoxetamines, as documented in the detection of several deaths, due to the fact that users may consume them unconsciously, due to the lack of medical control or control of use, the aim of this proposal is to call on all member states to subject 25i-nbom, ah-7921, mdpv and methoxetamines to control measures throughout the european union. for all the reasons stated above, i agree with the decision to carry out additional controls and restrict the use of those substances that have been shown to be dangerous and toxic in order to prevent the negative consequences they have. by subjecting these life-threatening substances to control measures, we safeguard the health and lives of all european union citizens, which must be our primary objective.
written. ‒ so far, there have been 4 deaths linked to 25i-nbome, with only 6 member states controlling its use at national level and another 7 member states using other legal frameworks. 15 deaths have been linked to the use of ah-7921. as many as 108 deaths were associated with mdpv and 20 with methoxetamine. in view of all the above, i agree with the proposal to subject the substances 4-iodine-2,5-dimethoxy-n-(2-methoxybenzyl) phenethylamine (25i-nbome), 3,4-dichloro-n-[[1-[[dimethylamino) cyclohexyl]methyl]benzamide (ah-7921), 3,4-methylenedioxypirovalerone (mdpv) and 2-[[3-methoxyphenyl]-2-[[ethylamino] cyclohexanone (methoxetamine) to control measures at european level in order to prevent their spread and their fatal consequences for human health.
written. ‒ i agree with the report by my colleague teresa jimenez-becerril barrio on the control measures for 25i-nbome, ah-7921, mdpv and methoxetamine. the purpose of the decision is to ensure the implementation of control measures on those new substances in the member states of the european union. the scientific committee of the european centre for drugs and drug addiction has carried out a risk analysis of psychoactive substances and submitted a risk assessment report to the commission and the council. the european commission and the european council have discussed the new psychoactive substances and concluded that they have caused a number of poisonings and deaths. these substances affect human health and the risk is increased by the fact that some users unconsciously consume them in combination with or instead of other stimulants.
written. ‒ this explanation of the vote arises as a criticism of the existing system of evaluating the work of meps in the european parliament solely on the basis of the statistical number of parliamentary activities promoted in croatia, which does not actually reflect the actual quality and quantity of work, efficiency and above all the success of the representative action.
written. ‒ i support this report because 25i-nbome, ah-7921, mdpv and methoxetamine have no proven or recognised use in human or veterinary medicine. 25i-nbome is a potent synthetic derivative of 2c-i, a classic serotonergic hallucinogen that has been subject to risk assessment, control measures and criminal sanctions at eu level. the use of 25i-nbome is not widely available, but the limited data available suggest that it can be consumed in different places. ah-7921 is a structurally atypical synthetic opioid analgesic known as doxylam among internet vendors, consumer websites and media. the use of ah-7921 in the food industry is not well documented, but the available data suggest that it is not widely used and is used in the home. mdpv is a ring-substituted synthetic derivative of cathinone, chemically related to pyrovalerone, and both substances are controlled under the united nations convention on psychotropic substances. the potential for harmful effects on humans is evident from its acute toxicity on consumer websites, and given that it has also been detected in biological samples examined in four member states in relation to fatalities in road accidents caused by driving under the influence of drugs, this substance should definitely be regulated and controlled by national and european legislation.
written. ‒ i support the imposition of surveillance measures for 25i-nbome, ah-792, mdpv and methoxetamine. the commission shall, by means of implementing acts, lay down the rules on the protection of the health and safety of workers from the risks related to exposure to 25i-nbome. it's sold on the black market as lsd. ah-7921 is a synthetic analgesic and has been detected in eight member states and 15 deaths have been reported related to this substance. it's sold online. mdpv is a synthetic derivative controlled under the united nations convention on psychotropic substances. 108 deaths were recorded in eight member states. it's widely available among online vendors and on the street. in the united kingdom, the use of methoxetamine has been reported to be associated with a higher risk of deaths in the elderly. this is devastating data. it is necessary to subject these substances to control measures and criminal sanctions as provided for in the 1971 united nations convention on psychotropic substances. i support this initiative because we need to fight against harmful synthetic substances that cause serious illness and death in the european union.
written. ‒ i voted to subject 4-iodine-2,5-dimethoxy-n-{2-methoxybenzyl}phenethylamine (25i-nbome), 3,4-dichloro-n-{1-{dimethylamino) cyclohexyl]methyl]benzamide (ah-7921), 3,4-methylenedioxypirovalerone (mdpv) and 2-{3-methoxyphenyl}-2-ethylamino) cyclohexanone (metoxetamine) to control measures as the investigations of the european monitoring centre for drugs and drug addiction have shown that these substances have no recognised use in human or veterinary medicine, and have hallucinogenic effects and cause severe forms of agitation, confusion of intense auditory and visual hallucinations, aggression, and self-harm. in addition, those substances pose health risks as they have been detected in autopsy samples of several fatalities and are listed among the causes of death. there is a certain risk that users may unknowingly consume new psychoactive substances such as these, which can lead to fatal consequences. for these reasons, i believe that the european union should regulate and prevent further diversion and use of these substances.
written. ‒ i support this report and the ban because the misuse of these substances is a threat to public health in the eu. young people are the target group of consumers and as such suffer the most harm from consumption. deaths have been reported across europe, and recently a teenager died in croatia in the middle of drinking. some of the compounds on the market are extremely potent and can cause effects such as high blood pressure, paranoia, psychosis, nausea, seizures, and in some cases, death. the most serious consequences occur because the active substance is incorrectly distributed throughout the product during mixing and drying. as a result, some packaging is many times stronger and more harmful than normal. the common market and the abolition of borders have brought europe many benefits, but in this case that freedom has negative side effects. the member states cannot tackle the problem of 'legal drugs' on their own because they cannot keep track of the speed at which new compounds are emerging.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the draft legislative resolution of the european parliament on the draft council implementing decision to subject 4-methyl-5- ((4-methylphenyl) -4,5-dihydroxazol-2-amine (4,4'-dmar) and 1-cyclohexyl-4- ((1,2-diphenylethene) piperazine (mt-45) to control measures as no human or veterinary medical benefit has been established or proven for these two substances within the european union. however, the identified fatalities associated with the consumption of 4,4'-dmar and mt-45 indicate that further studies are needed to determine with certainty their health and social threats. therefore, i strongly support the subjecting of 4,4'-dmar and mt-45 to control measures for the safety of all citizens of the european union.
written. ‒ i supported the report by mep michał bonia which stresses the importance of researching the health effects of 4,4'-dmar and mt-45, introducing control measures for the substance and tackling drug abuse, which is a major problem, especially among young people in the member states. the commission has also received information from the united kingdom on the use of mt-45 in the manufacture of certain products. the commission has also identified a number of potential risks associated with the use of 4,4-dmar in the union. it's sold on its own, but it's also in the illegal market for ecstasy and amphetamines. there are 31 deaths linked to this substance. the commission has also received comments from the applicant, the united kingdom, the united kingdom and the united kingdom. due to these statistics, the report calls for further investigations and additional control measures for those substances.
written. ‒ the currently available evidence and information provides us with sufficient grounds to object to the psychoactive substances 4,4-dmar and mt-45 and to take steps to strengthen control measures across the european union in relation to these substances. in view of the health risks posed by these substances, the acute toxicity demonstrated by the tests, and the documented few deaths resulting from the consumption of these substances, as well as their lack of medical value, i support this report and support the implementation of control measures for 4,4-dmar and mt-45.
‒ between november 2013 and july 2014, 31 deaths were reported related to the use of 4,4'-dmar. of particular concern is the fact that this substance is often smuggled by criminal groups. in the period from november 2013 to july 2014, 28 mt-45 related deaths were reported in only one eu member state, partly as a result of insufficient controls at national and european level. in the light of the above, i support parliament's agreement to the council proposal to subject the substances 4-methyl-5- ((4-methylphenyl) -4,5-dihydroxazol-2-amine (4,4'-dmar) and 1-cyclohexyl-4- ((1,2-diphenylethyl) piperazine (mt-45) to control measures at european level in order to prevent their spread and their fatal effects on human health.
written. ‒ i agree with the draft report by my colleague michel bonny on the control measures for 4,4'-dmar and mt-45. following a council decision requesting a risk assessment of the use, production and trafficking of those psychoactive substances, the scientific committee on drugs and drug addiction conducted a study and submitted a risk assessment report to the european commission and the council. although scientific evidence on the overall risks of the substances concerned is currently limited, it was concluded that there is a basis for subjecting those substances to control measures in the member states of the european union. it is considered that those substances, due to their toxicity, are capable of causing serious adverse effects on human health and it has been concluded during the discussions in the commission and the council that they have caused a number of poisonings and deaths. in addition, the risks are further increased because there have been cases where users have taken the substances with or instead of other psychoactive substances. the implementation of control measures is therefore necessary, as are the criminal sanctions provided for.
written. ‒ this explanation of the vote arises as a criticism of the existing system of evaluating the work of meps in the european parliament solely on the basis of the statistical number of parliamentary activities promoted in croatia, which does not actually reflect the actual quality and quantity of work, efficiency and above all the success of the representative action.
written. ‒ i support this report because the substance 4,4'-dmar is a synthetically substituted oxazoline derivative, and this substance has appeared on the psychoactive substances market as a research chemical sold by online vendors and is also available on the streets, where it appears as a new and as yet unregulated and under-researched drug. it is sold and used as a stand-alone substance or in the form of ecstasy or amphetamines. the commission has not received any information from the member states or from the union regarding the use of 4,4'-dmar in the manufacture of the active substance. the commission has not identified any other uses for 4,4'-dmar in the union, and has not identified any other uses for 4,4'-dmar in the union. there is no evidence so far of the involvement of organised crime in the production, distribution, trafficking and supply of mt-45, but as it is a new type of drug, mt-45, which is not included in the list of controlled substances, should be regulated.
written. ‒ i support the imposition of surveillance measures for 4,4'-dmar and mt-45. the new psychoactive substance 4,4'-dmar has psychostimulating properties and has been available on the eu drug market since at least december 2012, and has been detected in nine member states. in addition, 31 deaths and one non-fatal poisoning were reported in three member states. the data on deaths suggest that users have unconsciously taken 4,4'-dmar in search of other stimulants. the new psychoactive substance mt-45 has caused 28 deaths and 18 non-fatal poisonings in one member state. the commission has also examined the information provided by the member states on the risks of these substances in the union and the risk assessment of the substances concerned in the union. the main reason is that the toxicity of these substances can cause serious adverse effects on human health, especially since users are often unaware of the nature of the substance they are consuming, thinking it is something else. i support the commission's position because i believe that these substances should be subject to control measures and criminal sanctions as provided for in the 1971 united nations convention on psychotropic substances.
written. ‒ i have supported the report on the monitoring measures for 4-methyl-5- ((4-methylphenyl) -4,5-dihydroxazole-2-amine (4,4'-dmar) and 1-cyclohexyl-4- ((1,2-diphenylethyl) piperazine (mt-45) in view of the risks assessed by the scientific committee of the european monitoring centre for drugs and drug addiction. according to these results, the substances in question are new psychoactive substances that have become available on the drug market since 2013 and have been associated with numerous deaths and non-fatal poisonings in three member states of the european union in one year. i believe that this is sufficient evidence of the risks of using these substances, and additional information on their harmfulness is provided by the fact that several animal studies have shown that the acute toxicity of mt-45 is several times higher than that of morphine. although these substances are not in widespread use, they are mainly used by addicts who do not have access to heroin, and it is therefore clear that their use must be regulated from the outset and that further spread must be prevented.
written. ‒ i support this report on financial assistance to greece and bulgaria, which were affected by severe winter conditions and floods in 2015. this proposal is in line with current practice and the total amount will be financed through a reallocation of the available appropriations for progress from the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2015.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a decision of the european parliament and of the council on the mobilisation of the european union solidarity fund, in accordance with point 11 of the interinstitutional agreement of 2 december 2013 between the european parliament, the council and the commission on budgetary discipline, on cooperation in budgetary matters and on sound financial management, as i believe that an adequate solution for the affected regions of greece and bulgaria, whose citizens need effective assistance and solidarity, needs to be found and responded to. bulgaria submitted a request to mobilise the fund, following severe winter conditions that have affected public infrastructure, communication networks and roads, business buildings and homes, the agricultural sector and forests. in greece, on the other hand, floods have damaged and isolated many mountain settlements and destroyed some of the cultural heritage assets. sewer lines were damaged in 17 communities, and extensive damage was done to agriculture, farms, public and commercial buildings, and private homes. i therefore support the financial support provided to these countries through the mobilisation of the eu solidarity fund.
written. ‒ i supported the request to mobilise the eu solidarity fund for bulgaria and greece, as the purpose of the fund is to enable quick, efficient and flexible responses in disaster situations, thus showing solidarity with the population of regions affected by disasters. bulgaria has submitted an application to mobilise the fund due to severe winter conditions and greece has submitted two applications due to flooding, for a total amount of eur 16,2 million. the bulgarian regions have been affected by rain, floods, snow and landslides causing significant damage in particular to public infrastructure, private property and the agricultural sector. the damage is estimated at eur 243,3 million. major floods in eastern macedonia and thrace have caused extensive damage to agriculture, warehouses and crops, public buildings, private homes and business premises in greece. the damage was estimated at eur 395,8 million.
written. ‒ i supported the decision to mobilise the european union solidarity fund for disaster relief in bulgaria and greece because they fulfil the criteria established for providing assistance to countries affected by natural disasters. member states are entitled to mobilise a certain amount of money from the european funds to provide for the national economies of crisis-affected countries, to allow the normal functioning of the labour market to be restored and to re-integrate the affected countries into the european union's trade flows. the damage caused by the natural disasters that hit bulgaria is estimated at eur 243,305 million and is treated as a major natural disaster, while the one that hit greece is categorised as a regional disaster. in both countries, natural disasters have damaged public infrastructure, business facilities and, with them, jobs. on the basis of the information currently available, the amount of money provided for bulgaria and greece is considered sufficient to cover new potential applications for assistance from the funds for the remainder of the year, and i therefore support the decision to mobilise the european solidarity fund to assist these two countries.
written. ‒ in view of the strong impact and destructive consequences of the regional natural disasters that struck greece and bulgaria in january and february 2015, i support the proposal for a decision of the european parliament and of the council to grant the european union solidarity fund to support the recovery of these two countries. the severe flooding in central greece and the devastating winter conditions in bulgaria have led to severe damage and destruction of infrastructure, communication networks and roads, forests, public institutions, private homes and businesses. the commission shall be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 290 concerning the establishment of a european solidarity corps. the commission should also take into account the fact that the commission has not yet adopted a decision on the compatibility of the aid with the internal market. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's macro-financial assistance to the countries of central and eastern europe, including the countries of the former eastern bloc, in order to ensure that the union's macro-financial assistance is consistent with the union's macro-financial assistance. solidarity is one of the fundamental values of the european union, and natural disasters are one of the most serious disasters that can befall a country, so it is only right to ensure that we all shoulder the burden of recovery together.
‒ bulgaria and greece were hit by natural disasters in early 2015. heavy rains, floods and landslides have destroyed public, private and agricultural infrastructure. the commission notes that the commission has not provided any information on the amount of the compensation for the damage caused by the natural disaster. the commission has proposed to mobilise the european union solidarity fund (eusf) and to grant financial assistance for the disaster in bulgaria under the category of 'major natural disaster' and two disasters in greece defined as 'regional disasters'. the european union solidarity fund aims to provide member states with rapid, effective and flexible financial assistance in the event of an emergency and to show solidarity with the people of the region affected by a disaster. at the plenary i supported the commission's proposal to mobilise the european union solidarity fund (eusf) and to grant financial assistance related to the disaster in bulgaria and greece. these member states need funds to restore infrastructure in the local and regional community.
written. ‒ i support this report because it is in the spirit of democracy, christian democratic principles and humanity to help people, and consequently bulgaria and greece, which have recently experienced three natural disasters in their own climate. given that the solidarity fund was set up and has a function for precisely such problems, it is evident that it should be mobilised as these are the situations described in the purpose of this fund. this is a striking example of an emergency situation and an opportunity to show solidarity with other member states and therefore a fund should be mobilised to help the population of regions affected by disasters. the commission has assessed that the applications submitted by greece and bulgaria meet the criteria and conditions for granting the aid, and that there are no other more serious obstacles to the activation of that aid.
written. ‒ i support this initiative which aims to help member states suffering from the severe consequences of natural disasters. the european union solidarity fund is an effective way of showing solidarity and helping the affected areas of the european union and local populations in distress. in early 2015, bulgaria faced severe winter conditions, while greece and eastern croatia suffered massive flood damage in mid-2014. the european commission has concluded that the requests by bulgaria and greece to mobilise the european union solidarity fund are justified, and i therefore support this report.
written. ‒ i supported the request to mobilise the european union solidarity fund in the case of greece and bulgaria, which have been affected by major natural disasters, i.e. extraordinary regional disasters, in order to provide them with adequate financial assistance. as i myself come from a country that was hit by floods last year and fires this year, i am well aware of how much a natural disaster can adversely affect people's lives and dignity. as in croatia, natural disasters in bulgaria and greece have reduced the quality of life of local communities and have been particularly disadvantageous for economies that are already disadvantaged. as this is an appropriate way of showing solidarity and support to the vulnerable citizens of these countries, i believe that this mobilisation is very much needed by their citizens to help rebuild infrastructure and normalise life in the affected areas.
madam president, i, like the absolute majority of my colleagues, also supported this report. i am convinced that, since there is protection at eu level for geographical indications of agricultural products and the current arrangements are of good quality and effective, it is logical to extend the eu arrangements to non-agricultural products. only then will we be able to consolidate a regime that already exists for a certain type of product. it is quite clear that it is much more efficient to protect the specificities of our products at one european level than to have 28 particular, fragmented, separate regulations, each of which is of course a little bit different legally. it is important that this adjustment does not impose any burden on the entrepreneur, it is a voluntary matter. it is therefore up to the producer to make use of this protection or not, and neither the state nor the european union imposes anything on him. i think that's very important and that's something that entrepreneurs need to be aware of.
madam president, today i supported the initiative to extend the protection of the european union's geographical indication to non-agricultural products. non-agricultural products, like agricultural products, are the engines of economic growth and development, and this is an innovative approach to the traditions and specificities of individual regions. this is another way of promoting european values that we must strive for. it also aims to create new jobs, to encourage small and medium-sized enterprises and artisans, all of which we need in rural areas, but also in all other parts of the european union. in croatia we have a lot to offer and show europe and the world. just as agricultural products are recognised as being of special and high value and quality, such as neretva mandarins, mutton kulen, potatoes, olive oil, coconut oil, so we are proud of non-agricultural products, such as lace-making, wooden toys from the croatian zagorje... (the president interrupted)
written. ‒ what is the value of european skills, traditions and knowledge? if it's done in small quantities, it's expensive. and it very easily disappears under the onslaught of counterfeits from third countries. for example, european textile manufacturers complain that about 40 percent of their revenue is spent on litigating counterfeiters instead of increasing production, and many factories have long since closed. a designation of origin has many advantages that a protected designation of origin does not have. above all, it is consumer recognition. consumers like to buy products with a genuine label because they know they are buying quality and authenticity. instead, when they get home, they turn over the overpriced product and it says "made in china". small craftsmen and poor regions would benefit most from such a label. four million new jobs! the legal basis has already been laid with the labelling of agricultural products, and the new copyright directive is already the first stop on which we can start building a success story immediately. when someone skeptical talks to me about this subject, i simply ask them where european agriculture would be if there were no origin labels for, say, wines, or certain fruit or meat products? we must not be afraid to protect what is ours and ask our trading partners to respect it!
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the possible extension of the protection of the european union's geographical indication to non-agricultural products, given that there are many traditional european high-quality products based on traditional knowledge and techniques, and they are part of the eu's cultural heritage and part of the economic and social life of many european regions. such products, especially in rural areas, are directly linked to the local way of life, and contribute to enhancing the overall attractiveness of certain areas, preserving local identities and promoting their particularities. such production has positive effects on tourism, culture and trade. i support the commission's initiative to explore the possibility of introducing a european-level safeguarding instrument as part of a broader strategy to promote high-quality eu products. as in the case of agricultural and food products, the new system should provide a guarantee of authenticity and origin with a clear link to the geographical origin.
written. ‒ croatia has many traditional products and they represent the uniqueness and heritage of our people and therefore deserve to be protected. one such product is the bow tie, which is special not only because of its beauty but also because of the effort that generations of our grandmothers put into its making. the croatian lace is protected by unesco, and lepoglava, pag and hvar are particularly proud of it. the worthy hands of slavonic women make the most beautiful gold bullion i've ever seen, and a wall basket made of matches, or a laptop bag made of corn husks are a real hit. the brač stone is embedded in the most important cultural assets of croatia and even today enjoys a special status in the manufacture of useful objects. handmade wooden toys, native to croatia, bring a smile to every child's face. the petri dish is special not only because of its appearance but also because it is made by the last petri potter. i therefore support the european parliament's resolution on the possible extension of the protection of the european union's geographical indication to non-agricultural products, because these are products that represent our tradition and value that we need to protect, for our history and for our future. for the sake of history, so that we don't forget them and for the sake of the future, so that we don't destroy them.
written. ‒ extending the protection of geographical origin to non-agricultural products such as pasture lace and marriage stone will increase their market recognition and value and thus sales. it will also allow for more transparent information to consumers about the quality of the products they buy, which is why i fully support this proposal. i hope that the commission will use it as a starting point and present the proposal as soon as possible. the extension of the geographical indication to traditional non-agricultural products would allow authentic products that have existed in our culture for hundreds of years to be protected at eu level in the same way as, for example, karlskoga prut, personal potatoes and lamb chops. i am particularly pleased that the report adopted an amendment requesting that the negotiations on trade agreements also include open lists of all products (agricultural and non-agricultural) protected by a geographical indication, so that the pastry string and the marriage stone are part of future eu trade agreements with non-member countries. the amendment is particularly important for croatian products because, by including open lists, it also covers products for which geographical indication protection is pending.
written. ‒ i support the report on the possible extension of the european union's geographical indication to non-agricultural products. the eu has a unique gi protection system for agricultural products, which is based on the principle of 'one country, two systems'. the extension of the protection of geographical indications to non-agricultural products will have multiple positive effects. for consumers, it will mean providing reliable information on the place and method of production of a particular product. in addition, the extension of protection will contribute to the sustainability of the operations of small and medium-sized enterprises, which are the backbone of the european union's economy and employ some 33 million people. manufacturers across the european union have been building quality policies for their products for years. the designation of origin is one of the main factors that gives them a competitive advantage, contributes significantly to the preservation of their cultural and gastronomic traditions and supports rural development together with market support measures and producer income. those companies often lack sufficient financial means to protect their products and therefore need protection at union level to ensure the promotion of high quality eu products, both on the internal market and on the global market.
written. ‒ this explanation of the vote arises as a criticism of the existing system of evaluating the work of meps in the european parliament solely on the basis of the statistical number of parliamentary activities promoted in croatia, which does not actually reflect the actual quality and quantity of work, efficiency and above all the success of the representative action.
written. ‒ i support this report because traditional european high-quality products based on traditional knowledge and techniques form part of the eu's cultural heritage and as such represent a key element to be preserved within the economic and social life of many regions of europe. such products can contribute to the development of new strategies to support entrepreneurship at local and regional level. it is also possible to create new jobs for skilled workers closely linked to specific fields, thus giving a new impetus to professional and craft training. the protection of geographical indications is a key element of the protection of geographical indications. the increasing interest of consumers in the origin, authenticity and production methods requires information from manufacturers and product labelling enables consumers to make informed purchasing decisions based on the origin and quality of the product. the european union would benefit from a uniform european legislation in this area in international trade negotiations, and i therefore support the report.
written. ‒ the protected geographical indications (pgi) programme, together with the protected designation of origin programmes and the traditional specialities guaranteed, represents the european union's efforts to promote and protect the quality of agricultural and food products. these programmes promote the diversity of agricultural production, protect product names from misuse and inform consumers about the products they use. the extension of the cap to non-agricultural products would cover a whole range of authentic products derived from the local traditions and skills that the european union abounds in and that are an integral part of the eu's regional and local culture. enlargement has significant economic potential in terms of developing tourism as well as creating jobs. i fully support this proposal because i believe it will ensure not only the protection of the union's cultural heritage but also the quality of products placed on the eu market and will help to stop the exodus of young people from rural areas, as it is projected that more than four million jobs would be created. one of the products that has not yet been mentioned in the intangible heritage is certainly the horsehair, and i took the opportunity during the discussion to inaugurate it as an authentic croatian product that should be included in the list of non-agricultural products whose geographical origin should be protected.
written. ‒ i supported this excellent proposal because i believe that it does not violate the principles of proportionality and subsidiarity in any of its aspects and is a true example of the added value that the union can bring to the member states. given that the european union market is already rich in products which are part of the cultural, social and economic heritage of individual member states of the union, the proposal to extend the protection of geographical indications, in addition to agricultural products (which have been protected at european level since 1992), to non-agricultural products, i consider to be extremely positive, useful and appropriate. the commission has also taken note of the fact that the geographical indications are protected by the european union and that the geographical indications are protected by the european union.
madam president, today we supported concrete measures to amend the regulations to help greece absorb european funds more quickly. we must not forget that other member states also have difficulties in financing investments and strategic projects and often lack sufficient resources for co-financing and pre-financing. i therefore appeal to the european commission to consider helping to implement and accelerate the implementation of european funds in other member states as well, in particular in the eight member states which are particularly lagging behind and for which the european commission has also set up a task force. the commission has also been asked to provide information on the implementation of the new rules and to provide the commission with the necessary information. of course, we appeal to governments to simplify the rules of implementation because end-users are finding it increasingly difficult to navigate through different regulations.
written. ‒ i support this report because greece is in a particularly difficult financial and economic situation. i believe that we should do everything in our power to help this eu member state as quickly and efficiently as possible, with the most urgent measures, without any additional procedures that would further delay the procedure for granting an additional advance by the commission.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the draft legislative resolution of the european parliament on the proposal for a regulation of the parliament and of the council laying down common provisions on the european regional development fund, the european social fund, the cohesion fund, the european agricultural fund for rural development and the european maritime and fisheries fund and laying down general provisions on the european regional development fund, the european social fund, the cohesion fund and the european maritime and fisheries fund with regard to the specific measures for greece because i consider that the european commission's proposal is very well structured and recognises the real problems currently facing the eu. i also support an accelerated procedure to show the solidarity of the whole of the european union towards greece and to meet the need without too many formalities. the commission has also received a number of complaints from the greek authorities concerning the use of the greek banking system. in addition, it is also necessary to ensure the continuation of investments envisaged under individual programmes.
written. ‒ greece has been particularly affected by the consequences of the financial crisis, followed by a multi-year steady decline in gdp, which has caused a serious lack of liquidity and of the public funds needed to stimulate a sustainable recovery. the crisis in greece, which has been going on for several years, requires special measures designed exclusively for this country. the commission has also received comments from the greek authorities, which have not provided any further information. the commission has also provided a report on the implementation of the budget for the financial year 2016 which is based on the annual accounts of the european union for the financial year 2016. this is unfortunately necessary and i believe that stricter controls on the use of funds by national governments, and for the execution of projects under operational programmes, should be applied wherever the minimum effects envisaged when these programmes were approved are not achieved.
written. ‒ taking into account the particularly difficult situation in which the greek economy finds itself in the context of not only the financial but also the wider socio-economic crisis, it is necessary to ensure measures that address the specific problems facing the country in a systematic and deliberate manner. the commission notes that the greek authorities have not provided any evidence that the greek banks have been able to obtain a sufficient return on their investment in the greek economy. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's macro-financial assistance to greece, in particular through the european neighbourhood instrument (eni) and the european neighbourhood instrument (eni) and the european neighbourhood instrument (enif). accordingly, the proposed amendments aiming at increasing the level of pre-financing for the greek cohesion policy programmes, increasing the co-financing rate for the 2007-2013 programmes and abolishing the payment ceilings for the programmes should be welcomed and supported. the commission should also be able to provide the necessary financial support to the member states in order to ensure that the union's macro-financial assistance is used to support the implementation of the union's macro-financial assistance. the commission should also support the envisaged regulatory mechanism which should ensure the real impact of these funds through strict reporting deadlines to the commission.
written. ‒ given that greece has been hit by the financial crisis in a unique way and that the lack of liquidity and public funds is hampering investment under programmes funded by the european union (european regional development fund, european social fund, cohesion fund and european fisheries fund), i support the report by ms mihaylov which welcomes the european commission's proposal to amend regulation no 1303/2013. the commission shall be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 26 to supplement this regulation by laying down detailed rules for the application of this regulation. in addition, the co-financing rates for the 2007-2013 operational programmes should be increased in order to increase regional competitiveness and employment. the commission notes that the greek authorities have not provided any evidence that the commission has taken into account the fact that the greek authorities have not provided any evidence that the commission has taken into account the fact that the greek authorities have not provided any evidence that the commission has taken into account the fact that the greek authorities have not provided any evidence that the commission has taken into account the fact that the greek authorities have not provided any evidence that the commission has taken into account the fact that the commission has not provided any evidence that the commission has taken into account the fact that the greek authorities have not provided any evidence that the commission has taken into account the fact that the commission has not provided any evidence that the commission has taken into account the facts available. the commission has also taken note of the fact that the commission has not yet adopted a proposal for a regulation on the establishment of a european fisheries fund for the period 2014-2020.
written. ‒ the financial crisis has led to a continuously negative growth rate in greece, serious liquidity problems and a lack of public funds for the investments essential to stimulate growth and job creation. as an exceptional measure, in view of the emergency situation, the commission proposed the application of three elements to ensure that the eu funds available from the european regional development fund (erdf), the european social fund (esf), the cohesion fund (cf) and the european maritime and fisheries fund (emff) are efficiently used for investments on the ground and reach the beneficiaries as quickly as possible. at the plenary session, i supported the proposal to increase the level of initial pre-financing of the funds available for the period 2014-2020 for cohesion policy programmes under the investment for growth and jobs goal and programmes supported by the erdf in order to directly stimulate investment for the efficient use of investments on the ground and for the beneficiary to receive the funds as quickly as possible.
written. ‒ i support this report because the financial crisis in greece has led to negative gdp growth rates in greece for many years, and has caused a lack of liquidity and a lack of public funds for public investment needed to spur a sustainable recovery. in order to ensure that greece has sufficient financial resources to implement the programme, i consider it necessary to increase the level of initial pre-financing of operational programmes in order to invest in growth and jobs. in order to improve the efficient use of available funds for financing operations, regional competitiveness and employment adopted in the period 2007-2013 in greece, the maximum co-financing rate and the ceiling for payments for programmes at the end of the programming period should be raised. in view of the support needed, this regulation should enter into force immediately.
‒ greece has been particularly affected by the consequences of the financial crisis. the country is currently facing a lack of liquidity and public funds needed for public investments to ensure a sustainable recovery. the commission therefore proposes to request additional pre-financing for operational programmes under the cohesion policy under the investment for growth and jobs goal for the period 2014-2020 as well as for programmes financed by the european maritime and fisheries fund in greece. the commission proposal also provides for a 100% ceiling for the total amount of prefinancing and interim payments, as well as an increase in the co-financing rate to 100%, for the operational programmes for the period 2007 to 2011 for the convergence and regional competitiveness and employment objectives. in view of the urgency of the situation, the committee on regional development has drawn up this report under a simplified procedure without amendments. as this procedure will allow the regulation to enter into force as soon as possible and to provide greece with the assistance it so badly needs, i fully agree with the committee's position.
written. ‒ this report is the european parliament's response to the european commission's communication of 15 july, in which the commission granted renewed access to the substantial funds available to greece within the european union budget. the commission communication entitled 'a new start for growth and jobs in greece' has €35 billion available for the period 2014-2020, of which €20 billion will be available from the european structural and investment funds. the commission notes that the greek authorities have not provided any evidence that the aid is compatible with the internal market. i therefore call on the european commission to develop strict monitoring mechanisms. i consider that the measures proposed are insufficiently developed and of very questionable quality in the long term (even in the short term). that's why i voted against it.
written. ‒ i support the report on the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund (adam opel) to help 2692 former workers through a coordinated package of measures. the dramatic fall in car sales in europe caused by the global financial and economic crisis has led to the emergence of an excess of workers in the automotive industry, and in this way vocational training measures (vocational guidance, workshops, advisory services) are being taken to help them.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a decision of the european parliament and of the council on the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund, in accordance with point 13 of the interinstitutional agreement of 2 december 2013 between the european parliament, the council and the commission on budgetary discipline, on cooperation in budgetary matters and on sound financial management of the financial assistance granted to the german company adam opel. the global economic crisis has also affected the automotive industry to a large extent, where devastating data shows a significant decline in sales of cars in the mid-price category, which includes small and medium-sized vehicles, and the leading player adam opel ag. as a consequence of the fall in sales, a large number of opel employees were made redundant, and the european globalisation adjustment fund provided considerable support. i therefore support the request by germany to help reintegrate dismissed workers into the labour market and to contribute to economic and social growth.
written. ‒ i supported the report by mr geier approving the request to mobilise the european globalisation adjustment fund to help former employees of the german adam opel ag. in february 2015, germany submitted an application to mobilise the european globalisation adjustment fund to provide assistance to adam opel ag in the amount of eur 6,9 million. the european fund was created to provide assistance to former employees in finding a new job, education or self-employment, who have lost their jobs as a result of globalisation and the financial and economic crisis. the crisis led to record low sales of cars for adam opel ag, resulting in the dismissal of 2826 workers and 55 workers who became technological surplus at the johnson controls facility of bochumu gmbh & co., a supplier of adam opel ag.
written. ‒ having examined the request submitted by germany for financial assistance from the european globalisation adjustment fund and having taken into account the number of targeted beneficiaries, the proposed measures and the estimated costs, the commission proposes to mobilise the european globalisation adjustment fund for an amount of eur 6 958 623, representing 60% of the total cost of the proposed measures. i agree with this fundraising measure because it is necessary to provide assistance to all the workers who have been declared redundant, of which 2,826 are at adamu opel ag and 55 at the johnson controls facility of bochumu gmbh & co., a supplier of adam opel ag. the german automotive industry has reached its lowest level since 1997 and the consequences of this crisis in the automotive industry, which is itself a direct consequence of the global financial crisis, are devastating for jobs that need to be preserved. we need to be sympathetic to companies that are not doing well with globalization and that could fail without help. competitiveness and market diversity are hallmarks of the european union and should be supported in a high-quality manner, while maintaining integration itself.
written. ‒ the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) is an important instrument of solidarity, i.e. assistance for all those affected by structural changes in global trade, in particular workers whose work becomes redundant in the context of relocation of production, but also under the impact of the financial crisis and the resulting business decisions or closures of enterprises. in the case of the german adam opel, 2692 redundancies out of a total of 2881 workers are a direct consequence of the global financial crisis and a 25% drop in the number of cars registered in the eu between 2007 and 2013, which created a problem of overcapacity at adam opel. i welcome the commission's decision to award eur 6 958 623 in this case, as well as the specific assistance measures envisaged in the form of professional training and personal advice.
written. ‒ this explanation of the vote arises as a criticism of the existing system of evaluating the work of meps in the european parliament solely on the basis of the statistical number of parliamentary activities promoted in croatia, which does not actually reflect the actual quality and quantity of work, efficiency and above all the success of the representative action.
written. ‒ i support this report because the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) was set up precisely to help people, i.e. workers, who have been declared redundant, which is also the case here when we talk about the request of the german state and its company adam opel. such people should be helped to re-enter the labour market or to be able to self-employ, which is also the scope and intervention of the egf. since the german state guarantees this company of its own, i consider that funds can be allocated without controversy to that member state in order to make it easier to provide for its citizens in some way, and in particular because this request is in line with the requirements for determining the financial contribution from the egf. therefore, since all legal and legislative procedures have been respected and everything has been done correctly, i have supported this report.
‒ the european globalisation adjustment fund was created to provide additional assistance to workers in the member states of the european union who are suffering from the consequences of major structural changes in world trade. the european commission has adopted a decision to mobilise eur 6 958 623 for germany to reintegrate into the labour market more than 2600 workers made redundant by the closure of the bochum plant specialising in the production of opel adam cars. due to the unfavourable global economic developments, the decision of the owner general motors to sell vehicles exclusively on the european market, the decrease in the number of new vehicle registrations in the european union (25% for the period 2007-2013) and the fact that the number of new vehicles sold in europe is the lowest since 1997, the factory had to be closed and the workers laid off. i support this mobilization of funds to help the laid-off workers.
written. ‒ while i support the need to support unemployed young people under 25 through education, vocational training or training, i believe that the european globalisation adjustment fund cannot effectively help displaced workers find work, or provide a long-term solution. germany argues that the closure of the adam opel ag plant in bochum and the consequent redundancies are linked to the global financial and economic crisis; however, it is clear that the financial aid of eur 6 958 623 from the fund cannot bring them back into the labour market as it will not create new jobs. as i have stressed in previous similar calls for mobilisation of the european fund for global development, long-term objectives can only be achieved by reducing the tax burden on companies and removing the bureaucratic obstacles that make it difficult to do business.
written. ‒ i support the report on the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund (ford genk) to help some 4500 former workers through a coordinated package of personalised services, including individual help with job search, case management and general information services, training, compensation and incentives. the protection of workers and their rights is always my first priority as a social democrat and we must do everything to help workers who have been left without jobs and financial security by the impact of the global economic crisis.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a decision of the european parliament and of the council on the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund, in accordance with point 13 of the interinstitutional agreement of 2 december 2013 between the european parliament, the council and the commission on budgetary discipline, on cooperation in budgetary matters and on sound financial management, as i believe that the consequences of the economic crisis, which has affected ford genk in belgium to a large extent, should be addressed as efficiently and rapidly as possible. the commission notes that the belgian authorities have not provided any evidence that the aid is compatible with the internal market. belgium has submitted an application to mobilise the european globalisation adjustment fund in order to support displaced persons by providing a wide range of measures to facilitate the reintegration of displaced workers into the labour market. emergencies imply specific measures which in this case i support.
‒ belgium submitted an application in march 2015 to mobilise the european globalisation adjustment fund to provide assistance to ford genk in the amount of eur 6,2 million. the european fund was created to provide assistance to former employees in finding a new job, education or self-employment, who have lost their jobs as a result of globalisation and the financial and economic crisis. the belgian company ford genk suffered a decline in passenger car sales of 14.6 percent, due to the economic crisis, due to the growing influence of manufacturers from china and southeast asian countries. as a result of the sales decline, 3701 workers were declared surplus at ford genk, and an additional 1180 workers became surplus at 11 suppliers and other manufacturers cooperating with ford genk. i supported the request to mobilise the european globalisation adjustment fund to help ford genk to help the dismissed employees.
written. ‒ given that the belgian automotive industry has been in a steady decline for some time, and that it has reached a higher decline than that recorded in the other member states of the european union combined, and that the number of jobs in the automotive sector in belgium has been drastically reduced for the third year in a row, and that workers are being constantly laid off, i supported the belgian request to mobilise the european adaptation fund to assist belgium in the automotive industry. in the economic crisis facing the whole world, we must do everything in our power to preserve jobs and production which will then contribute to strengthening national economies and economic development. it is important that workers do not bear the brunt of the crisis, and i therefore welcome the fact that by mobilising this european adaptation fund, the european union will help first the workers who will have the bulk of the funds available and then the recovery of the belgian car industry. the belgian request for mobilisation meets the conditions for authorising the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund and i therefore supported it.
written. ‒ the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) is an important instrument to help all those affected by structural changes in global trade, in particular workers whose work becomes redundant in the context of relocation of production, but also affected by the financial crisis and the resulting business decisions or closures. i welcome the commission's decision to grant eur 6 268 564 in aid to belgium in the case of ford genk, as well as concrete measures to help workers in the form of job-search assistance, training and subsidies.
written. ‒ this explanation of the vote arises as a criticism of the existing system of evaluating the work of meps in the european parliament solely on the basis of the statistical number of parliamentary activities promoted in croatia, which does not actually reflect the actual quality and quantity of work, efficiency and above all the success of the representative action.
written. ‒ i support this report because the purpose of the european fund is to provide support for workers who have been declared redundant and self-employed and have ceased to operate because of structural changes in world trade flows caused by globalisation. belgium has therefore submitted an application for a financial contribution from the european globalisation adjustment fund and supplemented it with additional information. that request is in line with the requirements for determining the financial contribution from the egf. in order to allow the egf to be mobilised as soon as possible, this decision should apply from the date of its adoption. the conditions for granting a financial contribution from the egf were considered to be fulfilled and i therefore endorsed that report.
‒ the european globalisation adjustment fund was created to provide additional assistance to workers in the member states of the european union who are suffering from the consequences of major structural changes in world trade. the european commission has adopted a decision to mobilise funds (eur 6 268 564) for belgium to reintegrate into the labour market more than 4 500 workers made redundant by the closure of the ford plant in genk, caused by adverse trends in the automotive industry and the loss of a significant market share. this assistance and the mobilisation of funds will allow for individual job-search assistance for each worker, additional education and training and incentives for their employment. i support this report and believe that we must do everything we can to protect workers and production in the member states.
written. ‒ i voted against the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund in the case of the belgian company ford genk, as i consider that the fund is not an effective means of providing financial assistance to member states. in particular, i consider that these short-term measures cannot help the dismissed workers to find new employment, nor will they help belgium to reduce the unemployment rate. the commission also found that the average price of the product concerned in the union market was higher than the average price of the product concerned in the union. the high tax burden and bureaucratic obstacles are the main problems of the european union's declining economy and it is necessary to focus on finding solutions to these problems, both in the automotive industry and in other sectors.
written. ‒ i support the report on the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund (al italia) to help 184 former workers with a coordinated package of measures, including active support in job search, training, reimbursement of mobility costs, employment benefits for people over 50... the commission notes that the airport services agreement concluded between ryanair and ams was signed on 29 june 2014 and entered into force on 1 january 2014.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a decision of the european parliament and of the council on the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund, in accordance with point 13 of the interinstitutional agreement of 2 december 2013 between the european parliament, the council and the commission on budgetary discipline, on cooperation in budgetary matters and on sound financial management, as i believe that the aid to alitalia workers declared surplus should be provided as quickly and efficiently as possible. the reintegration of dismissed workers into the labour market is achieved through a number of measures such as enrolment and skills assessment, active job search assistance, training, reimbursement of mobility costs and encouraging the recruitment of people over 50. the commission notes that the airport services agreement between ryanair and ams was signed on 27 june 2013 and that the agreement between ryanair and ams was signed on 27 june 2013. that is why italy has applied for a financial contribution from the egf which i support.
‒ the italian airline alitalia has suffered financial losses in the air transport sector due to major structural changes and globalisation, resulting in the laying off of 1247 employees. italy submitted an application in march 2015 to mobilise the european globalisation adjustment fund to provide assistance to alitalia in the amount of eur 1,5 million. the european fund was created to provide assistance to former employees in finding a new job, education or self-employment, who have lost their jobs as a result of globalisation and the financial and economic crisis. i supported the request of ms van to mobilise the european globalisation adjustment fund to help alitalia to take care of the redundant workers.
written. ‒ over the last year, we have voted for a number of decisions on the use of the european globalisation adjustment fund. these decisions have helped workers who have found themselves in an unenviable position as a result of major structural changes in world trade patterns and the global financial and economic crisis. the huge increase in the number of passengers carried from/to italy by other air carriers, the decrease in the number of passengers carried by alitalia and the implementation of full privatisation have led to significant losses for this company. finally, 1 247 workers of the alitalia group were declared redundant. i support the request of the italian authorities for a financial contribution from the globalisation adjustment fund of eur 1 414 848 for 1 247 workers. the commission notes that the airport services agreement between ryanair and ams was signed on the same day as the agreement between ryanair and ams. i also welcome the focus of this report on active job search and other measures for training workers, including measures for the re-employment of redundant workers over the age of 50. this financial assistance is therefore necessary to alleviate the disadvantage of wounded declared surplus and to enable their reintegration into the labour market. i support this report and voted for its adoption.
written. ‒ the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) is an important instrument of solidarity, i.e. assistance for all those affected by structural changes in global trade, in particular workers whose work becomes redundant in the context of relocation of production, but also under the impact of the financial crisis and the resulting business decisions or closures of enterprises. in the case of the italian company alitalia, 184 of the 1249 workers were dismissed because of overcapacity. the commission notes that the airport operator has not provided any evidence that the airport operator has been operating in a market economy. in this context, i welcome the commission's approval of the allocation of eur 1 414 848 to italy in this case, as well as personalised assistance services for workers in the form of skills assessment, active job search assistance and in particular incentives to recruit workers over the age of 50.
written. ‒ this explanation of the vote arises as a criticism of the existing system of evaluating the work of meps in the european parliament solely on the basis of the statistical number of parliamentary activities promoted in croatia, which does not actually reflect the actual quality and quantity of work, efficiency and above all the success of the representative action.
written. ‒ i support this report because the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) is precisely intended to help workers and those who have been declared redundant at their place of work, as well as those who need an incentive to self-employment, and this is precisely the case here when we talk about italy's application for the alitalia group, which had to lay off 1 249 workers as a result of the global economic and financial crisis. these workers should be helped to re-enter the labour market or to be able to work on their own, which is also the purpose of the egf. since italy submitted this application in time, fulfilling all the criteria and conditions for the award of a financial contribution from the egf, the resources can be allocated to this member state in order to provide some relief to its citizens, in particular because this application complies with the requirements for determining a financial contribution from the egf. since legal and administrative procedures have been respected, the mobilisation of this fund for workers' assistance should be supported.
‒ the european globalisation adjustment fund was created to provide additional assistance to workers in eu member states suffering from the consequences of major structural changes in world trade. the european commission has adopted a decision to mobilise funds for italy to reintegrate into the labour market more than 180 workers made redundant by the alitalia group. the large decrease in passenger numbers in 2014 (3,6% compared to 2013 and 6,4% compared to 2012) and the accumulated losses from the 2009 alitalia privatisation forced the redundancies. the mobilisation of these funds (€ 1 414 848) will enable five measures to help redundant workers: skills assessment, active job search support, training, reimbursement of mobility costs and employment incentives for people over 50. i support this initiative and believe that we should help workers who have lost their jobs to re-enter the labour market.
written. ‒ i voted against the mobilisation of the european global development fund in the case of an italian request for assistance to dismissed workers declared surplus in the alitalia group operating in the air transport sector. i consider that the proposed measures cannot solve the serious economic problems faced by many member states, including italy. the measures offered by the fund are unfortunately only short-term and therefore i reiterate that only the removal of bureaucratic burdens and the reduction of tax liabilities will help all member states and their citizens and businesses to preserve jobs and economic recovery and growth.
written. ‒ i support this report on the role of local authorities in developing countries in development cooperation. the report welcomes the establishment of cooperation at eu level with developing countries and calls on the union to promote decentralised cooperation as a way of implementing the development framework.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the role of local authorities in developing countries in development cooperation, as i am convinced that the principle of subsidiarity and decentralisation should be strengthened both within the eu and in the countries with which the eu has development cooperation. the role of local authorities is crucial for the faster development of countries, it is important for economic and social development and environmental protection. it is by strengthening the role of local authorities that better results are achieved in addressing the real needs of citizens and greater involvement of citizens in public authorities and decision-making at local level. in this respect, i support further strengthening of cooperation and transfer of experience of local government units from the eu towards local authorities in developing countries. in my work, i have had many opportunities to see that local and regional authorities can solve some problems much more quickly and efficiently than the national level of government. in this respect, i support this report, but i also want to stress that the european parliament needs to pay more attention to the position of local and regional authorities in the member states.
written. ‒ local authorities are the main drivers of promoting and integrating the social, economic and environmental dimensions of development. world population is projected to grow from 7 billion to 9.3 billion by 2050, with most of the increase expected to occur in developing countries, especially in urban areas. however, excessive urbanisation can jeopardise the sustainability of development in all its dimensions. the report highlights the need for additional funding to strengthen the capacity of local authorities to provide a better quality of public service, guarantee equal opportunities and build social cohesion. the frequent crises also require the use of instruments combining loans and grants and their adaptation to the specific needs of local authorities. i supported the report by mep eleni theocharous because it highlighted the crucial importance of local authorities in fighting poverty, providing public services such as water, sanitation, primary health care and education.
written. ‒ being closer to citizens than any other public institution, local authorities have the most important responsibility for the welfare of the local population. the role of local actors is essential in the creation of any successful policy, as such stakeholders are responsible for regional development and strengthening social cohesion. the importance of local actors stems from their adaptation to the context, as well as their knowledge of the challenges, needs, problems and concerns of the local population. such challenges include social exclusion, migration, food security, resource depletion, public security and violence, climate adaptation, rule of law, access to justice and more. however, in order to strengthen the role of local authorities in promoting cooperation with developing countries, it is first necessary to ensure the fairest possible transfer of financial resources from the national (and even european) to the local level, i.e. to the level of cities and municipalities. the quality of local government is primarily linked to the political readiness of the central government to ensure the implementation of decisions at the local level, through legal and regulatory instruments, allowing local authorities to use a sufficient degree of autonomy in exercising power and acquiring certain capabilities. it is precisely because of the indispensable role of local actors in the development of sustainable cooperation and their close links with the local population that i support this report.
written. ‒ the subsidiarity principle is one of the european union's founding principles, which guarantees and demonstrates a commitment to tackling issues and problems at the level at which they arise, which is particularly relevant in the context of the local community's needs, i.e. their role in driving development, which this proposal addresses. in this regard, the proposal's emphasis on strengthening the capacity of local authorities to achieve the integration of the social, economic and environmental dimensions of development is particularly important and commendable. strengthening local authorities implies efforts to develop sustainable and institutionalised forms of cooperation and communication between all levels of government within the eu, but also horizontally with other stakeholders such as civil society organisations and the private sector. in this context, it is necessary to support the proposal's efforts to strengthen the involvement of local authorities as full-fledged actors in the implementation of the european development fund, i.e. to ensure a genuinely participatory process.
written. ‒ good governance at local level is essential to achieving sustainable development. i support the report by mrs theocharous, who welcomes the support for strengthening the capacity of local authorities and the structure for their coordination at national, regional and european level. it is necessary to encourage partnerships between local authorities in member states and developing countries to achieve greater good, such as better planning for environmental protection. the quality of local government is primarily linked to the political willingness of central government to give a sufficient degree of autonomy to local authorities through legal and regulatory instruments. by achieving a degree of autonomy, local authorities can manage and implement public policies and services on the basis of local political decision-making processes and interaction with other public institutions, as well as with citizens and the private sector. coordination and policy dialogue with local authorities are necessary to allow the evaluation of results achieved, the identification of obstacles and the identification of opportunities to improve impacts at local level. in this context, i would also stress the need to allocate additional resources to strengthen the capacity of local authorities to provide better quality public services, guarantee equal opportunities and social cohesion.
written. ‒ i support this report because local authorities, as key state and institutional actors for governance at local level, will have a key role to play in achieving the post-2015 objectives. increasing democratic decision-making at local level and sustainable territorial development based on the participation of the local community will lead to the empowerment of local authorities. they also represent a strong link between the community and national and global goals for the coming period. the eu is also heavily involved in supporting local authorities in developing countries to reduce poverty and achieve the millennium development goals. the rio declaration emphasises the key role of indigenous peoples and their communities in development and environmental management. climate change and environmental degradation threaten poverty reduction and pose a major challenge to local governments. the eu and its member states should therefore remain the main driver of local government development and the most important provider of official development assistance.
written. ‒ given that they are closer to the local population than some other public institutions, local authorities are responsible for mobilising and implementing the views of local societies. this responsibility concerns in particular effective public administration, a greater number of large-scale development processes in cooperation with civil society organisations, and finding solutions to urgent challenges faced by local communities, such as social isolation, migration, food security, rapid urbanisation, public safety and the environmental impact of extractive activities. the quality of local government governance is primarily linked to the central government's willingness to create an environment in which the local government will acquire certain capabilities and effectively implement them in its own area. it is therefore necessary to emphasise that the quality of local governance depends largely on the way local authorities implement the necessary laws and services at local level, and how they cooperate with other public institutions, citizens and the private sector. i support this view because good governance at the local level is necessary to achieve sustainable development and ensure fair outcomes.
written. ‒ i supported the report which stresses that local authorities are key state and institutional actors for the locally governed, and that they have a key role in defining, organising and achieving development goals. as i myself come from a smaller local area and from a centralised state where the countryside is dying, i am pleased that the need to promote decentralised cooperation as an instrument for implementing the development framework has been recognised and i support accordingly the strengthening of the financial and budgetary capacities of local authorities. the union should ensure that local authorities play a key role in the fight against poverty and in the provision of public services, and that they are represented in international negotiations on the adoption of the post-2015 development agenda. they are also crucial in empowering local, micro, small and medium-sized enterprises, and the importance of good governance at local level should be emphasised by putting the principles of accountability, transparency, participation, responsiveness and the rule of law at the forefront. i think it is particularly useful for local development to call on national governments and local authorities to strengthen local legislation to recognise traditional land ownership agreements and to cooperate with traditional authorities in the management of natural resources. i believe that a prerequisite for local development is to strengthen decentralized budgets that will improve the living conditions of communities, especially in rural areas.
mr. president, it's about our credibility, and that's why we need the truth, and that's why we need an investigation, because that's how we're going to protect our credibility, the credibility of our regulations, but at the same time, we're going to help one of the big corporations that we have in europe. investigation and the truth can help volkswagen and it can help the auto industry. and that's why i believe it's the only right way to go because we know what it means for every citizen of europe, every citizen of the world, to buy a car. so if we don't have credibility in this difficult situation, if we don't help volkswagen and the car industry to regain that credibility, it's not going to be good. i'm all for getting it investigated and for the truth to come out.
mr president, honourable commissioner, honourable colleagues, imagine that we are here today discussing medical equipment that has sold millions of copies and is used daily in the european union, but whose software has been adapted to give false information about our health, that is to say to show that we are healthier than we really are. i hope that this comparison helps you understand how important this topic is that we're talking about, how important it is to affect it because it's actually going to burden and harm our health and our public health system, not today but in the next ten years. but let's get back to some economic issues. where is the protection of competition that we so vow to uphold? how much has this fraud slowed down the development of the hybrid and electric car market? how much has it challenged job creation in that sector of the automotive industry where green or greener jobs are being created or should be created? what about the european commission's policy of promoting green public procurement in public companies and the public sector, especially in transport, precisely to achieve climate and health objectives? what about funding clean technologies? because it is the states that have introduced the polluter pays system and that's how the funds are being filled to finance the development of renewable energy and clean transport.
the question he raised by raising his blue card. mr. castaldo, thank you for accepting my blue card and i have to say that i agree with your analysis of what was going on and why libya was in some ways devastated. i want to ask you a question that relates to some of the analyses that say that the solution for syria and libya should be similar to that for bosnia and herzegovina and that peace could be achieved in this way. i don't think that's quite the case, because bosnia and herzegovina doesn't work either, regardless of whether we have peace. so, for the future of syria and libya, and especially now libya, do you agree with me that first of all we should let them decide their own destiny, and we should just be the facilitators of that process?
mr. president, europe has its own view on the death penalty and it is almost unanimous. i am happy that our societies have moved beyond this outdated method and that we treat even the worst criminals today as befits people whose civilization has been shaped by christianity. i believe that this european position on the death penalty should be promoted throughout the world, especially in relations with those third countries with which we have strong trade, diplomatic or military partnerships. but we must always keep in mind the cultural differences and in this delicate political moment choose the means by which we will achieve our goals, because the death penalty has no place in the 21st century.
madam president, the changes brought about by this regulation mean a great deal to consumers. in situations where a consumer buys goods online from another eu country and then realises that they have been tampered with or cheated upon delivery, the consumer usually calculates that a small amount of money will not make it worthwhile to go through the expensive process with the trader. of course, next time they won't be buying online, which has negative consequences for the european economy. this mechanism has so far been poorly used by smes, so i welcome the decision to increase the value of the claim, as it is estimated that around 50% of their claims will be able to be resolved through this system. finally, while praising the simplification and cost reduction of the process, i must point out the concern of the european commission's research as many as 82% of consumers do not know that they can use this instrument in situations where they have small claims, when they cannot be collected or when they are seeking, for example, compensation for a vehicle that has been damaged outside their country. we must not forget that an informed consumer is the key to the fair functioning of the common market.
madam president, mr commissioner, air pollution has a significant impact on the environment and on health. according to data presented by the clean air for europe programme in 2013, the annual premature deaths due to air pollution reached 400 000 people in 2010. the total external cost of air pollution impacts on health ranges from 330 to 940 billion euros. direct economic damage includes €15 billion in lost work days, €4 billion in health care costs, €3 billion in lost crop yields and €1 billion in damaged buildings. the latest european environment agency report on air quality in the european union shows that the average air quality in the european union has been improving since 2003. however, the pollution problem in central europe and some other parts of europe is still acute. i must say here that croatia has had its own national legislation for more than a decade, prescribed conditions for small and medium-sized storage facilities, as evidenced by the exceptional general air quality measured at the stations of our state network. unfortunately, croatia is suffering from cross-border air pollution from neighboring bosnia and herzegovina due to the operation of the refinery in bosanski brod, but we also have a problem with the import of pollution from other neighboring countries. i welcome this proposal for a directive which fills the legislative gap and achieves the compromise necessary for its adoption. it is necessary to introduce minimum requirements for the emissions of pollutants into the air for 150 000 medium combustion plants, while keeping the administrative burden to the lowest possible level.
member of the commission.– madam president, i wish to thank mr la via and the shadow rapporteurs for getting themselves involved in this technical issue. the text in the debate today is the fruit of very constructive work between the three eu institutions and it is an example of how the commission, with its right of initiative, and the council and parliament, as co—legislators, can cooperate for the benefit of jobs and growth in an innovative branch of the dairy sector, which is one of the pillars of european agriculture. the objectives that were pursued by the commission when the proposal was tabled in 2014 have been fully understood and supported by the co—legislators throughout the legislative process. those objectives continue to be at the heart of the text in the debate today, which is putting the eu dairy sector on a level playing field with world—market competitors in an area where innovation helps add value to milk production in the form of high—tech ingredients that serve customers both in the union and indeed outside it. today’s text aligns the eu rules to the international standards adopted under the codex alimentarius for edible casein and caseinates. differences that existed in the past are no longer justified today, as no public subsidy is now paid to casein production in the union following the cap reform that you agreed to in 2013. in conclusion, let me take the opportunity again to thank parliament for the excellent technical cooperation that has characterised this dossier throughout the various steps of the adoption procedure. we hope that both arms of the legislator will now quickly vote on a final text so that there will no longer be any obstacle for our dairy industry in benefiting from a level playing field on the world market.
on behalf of the ppe club. madam president, commissioner, caseins and caseinates are substances obtained by technological processes from milk. the commission notes that the use of the term 'substance' in the definition of the product scope of the directive is not limited to the use of the term 'substance' in the definition of the product scope of the directive. the proposed directive aligns european practice with the standards applied worldwide according to the codex alimentarius recommendations and standards. the commission therefore concluded that the union industry did not suffer material injury within the meaning of article 3 (5) of the basic regulation. we know that the different characteristics of the raw materials affect the technological processes of production and ultimately the quality of the final product. the commission also found that the union industry had a significant market share in the union market, which was much higher than the union industry's market share. in view of the elimination of the existing differences in moisture content and maximum milk fat content in edible caseins, i expect that this change will make these european products more competitive on the world market. the amount of assigned revenue in accordance with article 21 (3) of the financial regulation is estimated at eur 100000. in the milk sector, a truly alarming situation has arisen with the abolition of quotas and the russian embargo, and i must say that in croatia milk production in the first 4 months of this year fell by 5% and 1200 small milk producers went bankrupt. the commission has also taken the opportunity to call on the commission to review the milk package and to introduce a crisis programme, as the dairy sector is the most vulnerable sector in agriculture and deserves special attention, and the intervention measures taken so far have been a drop in the bucket and have unfortunately not produced the desired results.
mr. president, minister schmidt, thank you for your opening remarks, and i hope that the council will have some quality conclusions next week when you discuss syria. there is no question that the war in syria is the main focus of the middle east and the main hotspot of our neighbourhood policy. 250,000 killed, 4 million refugees, 8 million displaced people who are part of the generator of the refugee-migrant crisis that is destabilizing the foundations of the european union. all the regional actors are involved in this conflict - turkey, iran, saudi arabia. of course, there's also the shia-sunni conflict fueled by the brutality of the islamic state that we all have to fight. the russian intervention clearly has 3 goals: one is to maintain the assad regime by attacking other groups in syria, the second is to rival the international coalition led by the us and other western countries, and the third is to find a solution that is the russian way, which is to not allow the overthrow of authoritarian regimes. the european union must play a key political and diplomatic role in this context, support staffan de mistura and return to the diplomatic solution which is the only solution ... (the president interrupted)
madam president, we are mistaken if we think that this crisis will end quickly, that the war in syria will end quickly. unfortunately, we're also mistaken if we think that russia will just back off and not defend the assad regime. i say all this not because i think it's all very good but because i think we need to be realistic so that we don't repeat the mistakes that we often used to make because of our misjudgments. in this case, it's clear that russia will not withdraw from syria, it's clear that it will protect the assad regime and only a grand coalition, an agreement of all the great players of the world political scene... and unfortunately i have to state, our european union plays a minor role and we have to play our cards here if we really want to do something in syria. and, of course, because of the refugee problem that we've talked about a hundred times.
written. the syrian civil war has been ongoing since march 2011, and as many as 7,000 organizations are reportedly involved in the conflict in various ways. the eu, unfortunately, does not play a decisive role in the middle east, but it is suffering the most serious consequences of the chaos in the region. on the other hand, the united states is finding it increasingly difficult to maintain its own position. if nothing changes in brussels, the americans will have to negotiate deals with russia and, perhaps, china. in any case, after the russian military intervention in syria, the future of the region and the credibility of the west among the countries of the middle east are also at stake. putin doesn't make up our mistakes and our divisions. he just makes them bigger. the region itself is deeply divided religiously, politically, ethnically and territorially and is sinking into increasingly violent violence. in somewhat better circumstances, it is this combination of color and history of conflict that should lead the eu in the middle east. but to get even close, today's eu must restore its own credibility as the unquestioned argument.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the proposal for the calendar of parliament's sittings for 2017 because i consider that the proposal is in line with the needs and the way of working of the european parliament and its members, i.e. the services and other bodies.
‒ parliament shall decide on the annual work schedule on the basis of a proposal from the conference of presidents. i supported the proposal of the conference of presidents for a calendar of european parliament sessions for 2017, with 17 sessions.
written. ‒ i support the proposal for the calendar of parliament's sittings for 2017. the timely establishment of the european parliament's calendar is essential for the proper functioning of parliament. the high volume of work and responsibilities of meps requires good planning and it is important that the calendar of meetings and other related activities is well-defined. the european parliament sometimes seems distant and abstract to many citizens of europe. it is the activities of the mps on the ground that can make this work more transparent and closer to the voters. it is therefore essential that members have schedules for committee meetings, political groups and other parliamentary activities in place sufficiently in advance to enable them to plan activities in their constituencies.
written. ‒ i support the proposal for the calendar of meetings for the year 2107, as it fulfils all the conditions laid down in the protocol.
written. ‒ this explanation of the vote arises as a criticism of the existing system of evaluating the work of meps in the european parliament solely on the basis of the statistical number of parliamentary activities promoted in croatia, which does not actually reflect the actual quality and quantity of work, efficiency and above all the success of the representative action.
written. ‒ i did not support the calendar of sessions for 2017 proposed by the conference of presidents as it still proposes to hold four-day sessions in strasbourg. the european parliament's staff travel to strasbourg 12 times a year for plenary sessions only, which could easily be held in brussels, where all the conditions are in place. since i have been a supporter of the single seat initiative since i entered the european parliament, i have also supported the amendment in this report which takes the view that the practice of plenary sessions in strasbourg should be abolished, and which points out that the vast majority of members also support the initiative. given the enormous costs of transport and accommodation in strasbourg and the harmful impact on the environment, i believe these are realistic requirements which could greatly reduce the operating costs of this institution.
written. ‒ i support this process which seeks to help tunisia to cope with its poor economic situation. tunisia is the place where the arab spring was born and as a social democrat it is extremely important to me to help this country in the fight for democracy and democratic principles, which are still on their fragile feet. the eu should therefore take concrete economic and investment measures to support tunisia's transition to democracy.
written. i voted in favour of the draft legislative resolution of the european parliament on the draft council decision on the conclusion of the protocol to the euro-mediterranean agreement establishing an association between the european community and its member states, of the one part, and the republic of tunisia, of the other part, on a framework agreement between the european union and the republic of tunisia on the general principles for the participation of the republic of tunisia in union programmes, given that tunisia is a country in the european neighbourhood that has succeeded in continuing the process of developing a democratic political and social system after the arab spring. tunisia is a country that needs to be supported especially in view of all the events in the surrounding area. it is necessary to support the democratic system, the economy of tunisia, to improve trade cooperation, and to increase financial assistance through various european programmes. the union's contribution for the period 2014-2020 is estimated at eur 10000000000.
written. ‒ the economic and financial crisis has affected all countries of the world, including tunisia. but tunisia is also the epicenter of the arab spring, the wave of protests that began in december 2010, and the only country to survive the movement. i supported the recommendation of the panzeria representative to give its consent to the signing of the protocol to the euro-mediterranean agreement on the general principles for the participation of tunisia in union programmes with a view to supporting its efforts to implement reforms, transition to a democratic society and economic and financial stability. the union's financial contribution to tunisia is limited to eur 500000000 and is limited to eur 500000000 for the period from 1 january 2014 to 31 december 2020.
written. ‒ the european neighbourhood policy was created not only to help achieve closer cooperation between the member states of the european union and its closest neighbours, but also to contribute to the strengthening of democracy, the rule of law and respect for human rights in the countries where it is implemented, as well as to their economic and social growth and development. political, economic and social reforms are the foundation on which this policy and good cooperation are based. tunisia has recently been going through a turbulent period which we have recently witnessed followed by terrorist attacks, which pose a threat not only to tunisia but also to europe and the whole world. the union shall contribute to the implementation of this agreement by providing financial support to tunisia in accordance with the provisions of the agreement on the european economic area, and in particular article 4 of the agreement on the european economic area. the parties shall endeavour to cooperate in the implementation of the protocol by means of a dialogue with the tunisian authorities and the tunisian authorities. the protocol establishes standard rules applicable to all signatory countries to the agreement under the european neighbourhood policy. it contributes to the well-being of the signatory countries, but also of the citizens of the european union.
written. ‒ i welcome the efforts of the draft council decision aimed at ensuring assistance for the economic and social development of tunisia, in particular the requirement that tunisia's financial contribution within the european union programmes be as low as possible in order to ensure the recovery of an economy which has been in a difficult situation in the last few years. the eu-tunisia association agreement provides for the establishment of a specialised cooperation group to coordinate the activities of the eu-tunisia association council. during my visit to tunisia in 2011, i witnessed firsthand the commitment of tunisian citizens to democratic reforms and heard their demands that were carried by the arab spring, and these were first and foremost new jobs, education, wage security and democratic rights. our task today is to ensure tunisia's democratic transition, on which the fulfilment of these demands and the overall socio-political and economic development of the country and society depend. the commission has also provided support to the tunisian authorities in the form of grants, loans and guarantees.
written. ‒ over the last few years, the situation in tunisia's economy has deteriorated significantly, both domestically and internationally, especially in terms of trade with europe, which remains tunisia's main partner. the eu has also been active in promoting the development of the tunisian economy, including through the development of the tunisian economy and the tunisian economy. the eu should also increase cooperation in the fields of higher education, general education, and youth training through programmes such as erasmus+ and other programmes aimed at the intellectual development of people. the union's contribution to the implementation of the cfsp should be limited to the amount of eur 500000000 and to the amount of eur 300000000 in commitment appropriations. tunisia has a long-term economic development strategy, which is based on the principles of sustainable development, sustainable development and sustainable development. the commission has also received a request from the tunisian authorities to provide additional information on the implementation of the protocol to the euro-mediterranean agreement on the general principles for the participation of the republic of tunisia in union programmes.
written. ‒ this explanation of the vote arises as a criticism of the existing system of evaluating the work of meps in the european parliament solely on the basis of the statistical number of parliamentary activities promoted in croatia, which does not actually reflect the actual quality and quantity of work, efficiency and above all the success of the representative action.
written. ‒ having regard to the recommendation of the committee on foreign affairs (a8-0254/2015) and to the draft council decision (16160/2014), i support this report. the conclusion of the protocol should be agreed as the success of tunisia's transition will depend on its future economic and social development. tunisia is the birthplace of the arab spring, which means that it is the country leading the arab world's transition to democracy, which should be supported. with the support of the european union, tunisia should realise its greater potential. the commission notes that the tunisian authorities have not provided any evidence that the aid is compatible with the internal market. the european union should also improve cooperation in the field of higher education, and education in general, through programmes such as erasmus+ and other programmes aimed at developing personal contacts. tunisia should therefore be given the opportunity to join the missions and activities of the european common economic, social, security and defence policy.
written. ‒ one of the many measures to promote the reform, modernisation and transition of the european union's neighbourhood under the european neighbourhood policy (enp) is the gradual opening-up of certain eu programmes and activities to enp partner countries. in december 2013, tunisia expressed its interest in participating in a wide range of programmes available to partner countries of the european neighbourhood policy. this is a proposal for a council decision on the conclusion of a protocol containing an agreement on the framework programme on the general principles for the participation of tunisia in union programmes, and containing the standard terms and conditions which should apply to all enp partner countries with which such protocols would be concluded. the objective of the protocol is to define financial and technical rules allowing tunisia to participate in certain eu programmes. i support this protocol because it sets out the principles for economic, financial and technical cooperation measures and provides tunisia with technical and financial support, in line with european union programmes.
written. ‒ i supported the conclusion of the protocol to the euro-mediterranean agreement establishing an association between the european community and its member states, of the one part, and the republic of tunisia, of the other part, on a framework agreement between the european union and the republic of tunisia on the general principles for the participation of the republic of tunisia in union programmes. i consider this to be the right step towards continuing and improving the eu-tunisia relationship by removing barriers to trade and investment, i.e. by creating a free market. since tunisia, as the country where the arab spring began, is more advanced than its neighbours in the region, i think it is realistic to expect the expected reforms to be met, given that in the last three years, the democratic transition in that country has been an example of optimism for other north african countries. that is why i voted in favour of a report which supports the further development of the partnership with tunisia and the promotion of common interests in the areas of trade, investment, culture and security.
written. - this mechanism means a lot to the average consumer. in situations where a consumer buys goods online from another eu country and then realises that they have been counterfeited or cheated upon delivery, he or she will often calculate that it is not worth it to get the lower price he or she paid to engage in a costly battle with the trader. of course, next time they won't be buying online, and that's going to further damage the european economy. this mechanism has so far been poorly used by smes. so i welcome the decision to increase the value of the lawsuit because it's estimated that about 50 percent of their lawsuits will be able to be resolved through this system. the biggest problem with this mechanism is that very few eu citizens even know it exists. as many as 82% of consumers and smes are unaware that they can use this instrument in situations where they have small claims, cannot be collected or are seeking compensation for a vehicle damaged outside their country. this mechanism is to be commended, but the fact that in bulgaria, for example, we only register 3 complaints a year, and in spain as many as 1047 shows that some consumers are not informed at all and that is where we need to make additional efforts.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the draft legislative resolution of the european parliament on the proposal for a regulation of the parliament and of the council amending regulation (ec) no 861/2007 establishing a european small claims procedure and regulation (ec) no 1896/2006 establishing a european order for payment procedure, as such amendments modernise, simplify and speed up the cross-border small claims procedure and reduce its costs. furthermore, i support the proposal to raise the monetary dispute threshold from eur 2000 to eur 10000 which will be of particular benefit to smes and to extend the scope of cross-border disputes. in addition, it is important to encourage the use of information technology and online payment methods, as well as to raise public awareness of the importance of such procedures. while i support this proposal, i still believe that it is necessary to improve legal certainty, transparency of procedures and to overcome the difficulties of language barriers.
written. ‒ i supported the report by mrs geringer de oedenberg adopting amendments to the regulation establishing the european small claims procedure and the regulation establishing the european order for payment procedure. the regulations are designed to help consumers and small and medium-sized enterprises to obtain their claims. the increase in the threshold for small claims disputes from the current eur 2 000 to eur 10 000 will ensure that a greater number of disputes are handled under simplified procedures. it also extends the definition of cross-border disputes, limits the maximum compensation, reduces the duration of proceedings and creates a platform for the exchange of documents. i welcome the initiative to encourage citizens to use information technology for the purpose of settling small value disputes as one of the ways of simplifying administrative, financial and geographical procedures that represent a heavy burden for small and medium-sized enterprises.
written. ‒ at a time when the european union is facing the greatest economic crisis in its history, improving the efficiency of the european union's judiciary has become an important factor in stimulating economic activity. one of the measures to promote the efficiency of the judiciary in the eu is the revision of the regulation establishing the european small claims procedure. i support the adoption of the regulation because it is recognised that the problems of ineffective small claims litigation are exacerbated by small claims being brought across eu borders. in these situations, additional problems arise, as the parties are not familiar with foreign laws and procedures in foreign courts, there is a greater need for interpretation and translation, and it is necessary to travel abroad for oral hearings. the commission should also be able to provide the european parliament and the council with the information necessary to assess the need for a european union legal framework for the protection of natural persons with regard to the processing of personal data and the protection of privacy.
written. ‒ the commission's proposals for amendments to the european small claims procedure have been well received, given the particular shortcomings and untapped potential of the existing regulation. the commission correctly estimates that raising the threshold for accelerated procedures to eur 10 000 could resolve as many as half of cross-border business lawsuits in the eu, instead of the current 20%. the commission should also be able to take into account the need to ensure that the rules on the free movement of goods and services are applied in a uniform manner throughout the union. i support the rapporteur's proposal for a three-year period after the entry into force of the regulation, during which member states would have the time and opportunity to provide such infrastructure. i also support the proposal that each member state be obliged to provide only one means of distance payment of its choice and that each member state determine independently the threshold of minimum income below which a party is not obliged to pay court fees. i consider that these proposals improve the technological and legal level of implementation without interfering with existing national legislation of the member states. the commission should be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 290 tfeu concerning the establishment of a european data protection supervisor, the appointment of a european data protection supervisor and the appointment of a european data protection supervisor.
written. ‒ the establishment of the european small claims procedure should simplify and speed up litigation on small claims in cross-border cases and reduce costs. the procedure is established and specifically designed to help consumers and small and medium-sized enterprises (smes) to enforce their claims, thereby ensuring access to justice. it has also proven to be a useful tool, reducing the cost of cross-border small claims by up to 40% and the duration of the case from two years and five months to an average of five months. parliament stated in its resolution of 25 october 2011 that 'the use of small claims courts in some member states is significantly lower and that more needs to be done in terms of legal certainty, language barriers and transparency of proceedings'. the simplified procedure is also available for cross-border claims between eur 2 000 and eur 10 000 and an increased proportion of cases qualify for a significant reduction in costs and the length of litigation. it is therefore of the utmost importance to facilitate access to the necessary information for potential users, in particular consumers. i support the rapporteur on raising the threshold for using the european small claims procedure.
written. ‒ the european small claims procedure is an important instrument for citizens and businesses as it improves access to justice by simplifying court proceedings for cross-border small claims in civil and commercial disputes and reducing costs. it was established by regulation (ec) no 861/2007 and applies from 1 january 2009. the agreement applies when at least one of the parties is resident or habitually resident in a member state other than that of the court seised. at the parliamentary sitting i voted in favour of amending several elements of regulation (ec) no 861/2007. the main elements are: increasing the threshold for small claims from eur 2 000 to eur 5 000, an obligation for member states to ensure that the court fees are proportionate and do not exceed the court fees charged for national simplified court procedures, and linking the european small claims procedure and the european payment order procedure by allowing the claimant to use the european small claims procedure when a challenge to a european payment order has been lodged.
written. ‒ i support this report because consumers should be able to take full advantage of the opportunities offered by the single market and therefore their confidence should not be limited by the lack of effective legal solutions to disputes with a cross-border element. improving the european small claims procedure offers consumers an effective remedy and thus contributes to the exercise of their rights in practice. the commission should be able to take into account the fact that the legal basis for the application of the contested decision is the case law of the member state concerned. the commission should also be able to use the information provided by the member states to assess the effectiveness of the union's financial instruments. the european small claims procedure will also benefit from technological developments in the field of justice that can eliminate geographical distances and their consequences, which are the cause of high costs and lengthy procedures as a factor discouraging access to justice.
written. regulation (ec) no 861/2007 of 11 july 2007 establishing a european small claims procedure aims to simplify and speed up the litigation process in respect of cross-border small claims and to reduce costs. the regulation is designed solely as a means of helping consumers and smes to manage their disputes by ensuring access to justice. while the process has proven to be extremely useful, there is plenty of room for further expansion and development. the european small claims procedure has reduced the cost of litigation in cross-border small claims cases by up to 40%, and the duration of litigation from two years and five months to an average of five months. however, it should be noted that the rate of use of such courts for small claims in some member states is still very low and much more needs to be done in terms of legal certainty, the use of modern technology and the transparency of judicial proceedings. it is precisely because of the success of this procedure in the past in terms of reducing costs and the duration of the litigation itself that i fully support this report.
written. ‒ i supported the report which aims to provide effective redress for consumers and smes in cross-border cases, which relate to circumstances where at least one of the parties to a dispute is not in the member state where the court is located but in another member state. i consider that this report achieves a reduction in the burden of taking evidence and i consider particularly useful for simplifying procedures the proposal to use a standard claim form which should be available on national websites and to submit those claims through the written procedure. as a way of reducing additional costs, i particularly support the proposal that oral hearings can also be held by means of distance communication, and since citizens are often not sufficiently informed about these and similar procedures, i support the obligation of member states to provide free and accessible practical assistance in filling in the forms.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the draft legislative resolution of the european parliament on the proposal for a directive of the parliament and of the council on the limitation of emissions of certain pollutants into the air from medium combustion plants, because this proposal improves air quality and because it identifies the high harmfulness of polluted air, i.e. its contribution to premature death rates. i support the fact that this will reduce pollution caused by nitrogen and sulphur oxides and dust emissions by setting limits for new and existing plants. i also consider that the purpose of this proposal is to avoid excessive administrative burden and double regulation. i believe it is crucial to ensure, through joint efforts and synergies both at european and global level, the highest level of environmental protection and to act in accordance with climate change.
written. ‒ there are currently around 150 000 medium-sized combustion plants in the eu, which are a significant source of sulphur dioxide, nitrogen oxides and particulate matter emissions. while the operation of small combustion plants is regulated by directive 2009/125/ec and that of large combustion plants by directive 2010/75/eu, emissions of air pollutants from medium combustion plants are not regulated at eu level. the commission proposal lays down provisions for medium-sized combustion plants. the commission should be able to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 290 tfeu concerning the setting of limit values for new installations. i supported the report by mr gryzba as this union action is important to establish a coherent and ambitious framework to tackle emissions. i consider that the obligation of the member state is to apply stricter emission control rules in zones that do not comply with the eu air quality standard.
written. ‒ air pollution has a significant impact on the environment and health. according to the 2013 clean air for europe programme, the annual premature mortality rate in 2010 reached 400 000. the total external costs of health impacts range from eur 330 to eur 940 billion. the direct economic damage includes eur 15 billion of lost working days, eur 4 billion of healthcare costs, eur 3 billion of lost crop yields and eur 1 billion of damage to buildings. that's why i supported this legislative resolution and reached a compromise. the commission should be able to assess the impact of the proposed amendments on the environment and the environment protection of the union's forests, and to assess the impact of the proposed amendments on the environment. the transitional periods necessary for the transposition of the directive and its full application may be considered by some to be too long. on the contrary, i believe that regulations such as this, which apply to existing equipment with a service life of more than a decade, must take account of technological cycles, without distorting the economic conditions under which smes operate and leaving sufficient time for the necessary technical improvements.
written. ‒ emissions of certain substances from combustion plants, and the resulting pollution of air quality, are a major health and environmental problem throughout europe, including in croatia, despite existing regulations and laws that try to reduce these emissions to minimum levels. it is therefore commendable that the european parliament and the council have decided to propose a directive relating to the limitation of emissions of certain pollutants from medium combustion plants, as large and small combustion plants are already covered by eu legislation. the agreed text of the proposal also contains rules for monitoring carbon dioxide emissions and for improving the energy efficiency of medium-sized installations. in this respect, the proposals suggest that no combustion plant should be subject to double regulation, especially as around 75% of the plants concerned are run by small and medium-sized enterprises which are already sufficiently burdened financially and administratively. the commission proposes to introduce new emission limit values and to simplify the registration and withdrawal of permits for installations. the proposal to grant extensions of the deadlines for compliance to district heating systems and to installations forming part of small isolated systems (e.g. on islands) is of particular importance for croatia. i believe that the proposal for a directive in question will allow for an effective reduction in emissions from medium-sized installations, paving the way for a green economy and renewable energy sources and reducing greenhouse gases.
written. ‒ air pollution is a major cross-border problem and many member states want to limit emissions of certain pollutants into the air from neighbouring countries. action at union level is therefore needed to establish a coherent and ambitious emissions framework. the commission proposal seeks to fill an important gap in current eu legislation. there are already regulated provisions implementing the directive of the european parliament and of the council of 21 october 2009 establishing a framework for the setting of requirements for eco-designed energy products. the importance of the proposal is manifold. first, according to the commission's impact assessment, air pollution will lead to more than 400,000 premature deaths a year and health costs of up to €940 billion. air pollution also contributes to significant environmental degradation and economic damage. the commission should also be able to assess the impact of the measures on the environment and the environment protection of the union's forests, in particular by assessing the impact of the measures on the environment and the environment. if we act now, we can provide clear signals for investment needs and thereby provide additional incentives for research and innovation. this will create a favourable environment for european companies in green innovation, with huge export potential. in view of the above, i support the report by my colleague, mr andrzej grzyb.
written. ‒ over the past decade, emissions of air pollutants have been significantly reduced, but at the same time air pollution levels remain problematic in many parts of europe. union citizens continue to be exposed to air pollutants and potentially harmful to their health and well-being. the commission considers that the aid is compatible with the internal market if it is granted to the beneficiary in accordance with the conditions laid down in article 107 (3) (c) of the treaty. they are used for a variety of purposes (including electricity, domestic/domestic heating and cooling and providing heat/steam for industrial processes, etc.) and are an important source of sulphur dioxide, nitrogen oxides and dust emissions. in the plenary i voted to amend the directive which contains provisions for medium-sized incinerators. they are designed to make a significant contribution to reducing pollution of nitrogen oxides, sulphur dioxide and dust where limit values are set for new and existing plants, together with a simple registration scheme, to enable a significant reduction of emissions of harmful gases into the air.
written. ‒ i support this report because the decision of the european parliament and the council confirms that emissions of pollutants into the air have been significantly reduced, but also that pollutant levels remain problematic in many parts of europe and that union citizens continue to be exposed to air pollutants. therefore, in order to ensure a healthy environment for all, the action programme calls for complementary measures at local, national and union level. however, the union's international obligations in relation to air pollution to combat acidification, eutrophication and ground-level ozone were agreed by the gothenburg protocol to the convention on long-range transboundary air pollution and to reinforce existing obligations to reduce sulphur dioxide, nitrogen oxides, ammonia and volatile organic compounds. the commission should be able to verify that the conditions for the authorisation of a medium combustion plant are met.
written. ‒ there are about 150 000 medium-sized combustion plants in the european union, most of them with an input thermal capacity of between 1 and 50 mw. they are used for a number of purposes, including electricity generation, residential heating and cooling or to provide heat/steam for industrial plants. they are also major sources of sulphur dioxide, nitrogen oxide and particulate matter emissions. the commission has also concluded that the measures provided for in this decision are in accordance with the opinion of the committee established by article 15 (1) of directive 2010/75/eu, the commission proposal would also include the regulation of such installations by setting limits for new and existing installations, as well as the establishment of a simple registration system which would oblige member states to reduce emissions of air pollutants. although the air in my country, croatia, is relatively clean, some areas like slavonski brod in 2015 recorded increased air pollution which could be a sign of concern. despite minor disagreements within the group, i nevertheless support this proposal to improve air quality in croatia and in other eu member states, and to reduce harmful emissions to the lowest possible level.
written. ‒ i supported the directive on limiting emissions of certain pollutants into the air from medium combustion plants, which has not been regulated by eu law until now. i believe that it will be of the utmost importance for the environment and the health of the citizens of the european union to limit the emissions of sulphur dioxide, nitrogen oxides and dust from these plants, and i strongly support the possibility for member states to maintain or introduce even stricter protective measures, if this is in line with environmental quality standards. since the directive recognises the need for flexibility in relation to installations used only in exceptional circumstances due to the technical and logistical problems associated with certain sites, i consider it particularly useful to provide that member states should set their own limit values for these installations in order to reduce their emissions to air and potential risks to human health.
written. ‒ i support this report because it is really about aligning the old directive 83/417 with the progress of other eu laws regulating food and food information. caseins and caseinates are widely used in the human diet in all types of dairy products and it is therefore important that they are regulated for quality. the proposed amendments to certain definitions and technical terms are in line with the current state of the market.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the draft legislative resolution of the european parliament on the proposal for a directive of the parliament and of the council on the approximation of the laws of the member states relating to caseins and caseinates intended for human consumption and repealing council directive 83/417/eec, as it brings the proposal into line with higher international standards and increases consumer awareness. it also allows the free and safe circulation of healthy and controlled food, which contributes to the well-being of all citizens. on the other hand, it improves the mechanism for product labelling, which is of particular importance for consumers but also for the food business sector, especially when it comes to allergens. therefore, i support this proposal which encourages member states to fully implement these processes and standards, and limits the duration of delegated acts to five years.
written. ‒ i supported the la vije mep's report because it requires the labelling of casein and caseinates on products, thus enabling consumers to make informed decisions about healthy eating and lifestyle choices. this requirement is especially helpful for those who suffer from food allergies or intolerances. the european commission published a proposal for a directive on the approximation of the laws of the member states relating to caseins and caseinates intended for human consumption and repealing council directive 83/417/eec in march 2014. this commission proposal is based, inter alia, on the need to adapt the existing provisions in order to further develop the area of food law and to adapt the ingredients of edible casein. the commission should also be able to use the information provided by the member states to assess the effectiveness of the measures taken by the member states in the field of the internal market.
written. ‒ i supported the european parliament legislative resolution proposing amendments to the legislative act in the sense of the proposal of the parliamentary committee on the environment, health and food safety. i welcome the alignment of european legislation with the recommendations and standards of the codex alimentarius, and i welcome the effort to bring the directive into force as soon as possible, and for the expected benefit and help of the crisis-hit milk sector anyway. the advantage of the directive as amended, which provides for the adaptation of the labelling of the composition of products using caseins and caseinates in the technological production process, is also to increase the safety of the final users of those products - the consumer. i agree with the need for the possibility of technical amendments and amendments to this regulation or annex to be implemented by delegated acts, but only for the required period of 5 years. this is necessary to allow for further improvements which will not affect the content of the act but which will be necessary to bring it into line with international standards and technical progress.
written. ‒ the commission's proposal is important in the context of the general food law, which seeks to improve and maintain the health and well-being of its citizens by ensuring the free movement of safe food and foodstuffs. while the proposal concerns caseins and caseinates not intended for final consumption but for trade between undertakings for the purpose of food preparation, it is necessary and necessary to provide relevant information to workers working and dealing with them. the ability of workers to clearly discern how to use the information they need to label finished products, such as allergens, or to avoid replacing products with similar ones that are not fit for human consumption, can be vital for the final consumer. similarly, harmonising the quality standards for edible caseins according to the codex alimentarius is important to ensure a level playing field for all food producers worldwide. in support of the amendments seeking to introduce these provisions, i am encouraged by the example of croatia itself. in particular, in croatia, article 12 of the 2007 ordinance on edible casein and caseinates provides for a list of information to be included in each package, container or declaration of edible casein and caseinates products placed on the market and not intended for the final consumer.
written. ‒ the commission has proposed to repeal the directive on the approximation of the laws of the member states relating to milk proteins (caseins and caseinates) intended for human consumption and to replace it by a new directive. the proposals for alignment with international standards concern the parameters in relation to the maximum moisture content in casein at 12% (instead of 10% previously) and in relation to the maximum milk fat content in casein at 2% (instead of 2,25%). i agree with the proposal for a general food law which aims at the free movement of safe and healthy food, thus contributing significantly to the health and well-being of citizens. this should ensure that consumers are informed as to the food they consume. in view of the above, i support the report of my colleague, mr giovanni la vija.
written. ‒ this explanation of the vote arises as a criticism of the existing system of evaluating the work of meps in the european parliament solely on the basis of the statistical number of parliamentary activities promoted in croatia, which does not actually reflect the actual quality and quantity of work, efficiency and above all the success of the representative action.
written. ‒ i support this report because council directive 83/417/eec proposes to harmonise the laws of the member states relating to certain milk proteins intended for human consumption. the directive confers powers on the commission to implement certain of its provisions. regulation (ec) no 1333/2008 of the european parliament and of the council provides for the definition of processing aids referred to as catalysts in the directive. i also consider that member states should have a limit to adopt national measures on matters not harmonised by this directive and to adapt to the national, legal and administrative environment.
written. ‒ the objective of this proposal from the parliament and the council is to harmonise the laws of the member states relating to certain milk proteins (caseins and caseinates) intended for human consumption and to repeal council directive 83/417/eec. it also aims to align the powers conferred on the commission with the new distinction between delegated/implementing acts introduced by the treaty on the functioning of the european union (tfeu), to adapt existing implementing acts to further developments in food law, and to adapt existing rules on the composition of edible casein to the international standards of the codex alimentarius. as regards the adaptation to international standards, it is proposed to increase the maximum moisture content of edible caseins from 10% to 12% and to reduce the maximum milk fat content of edible acid casein from 2% to 2,25%. i support this proposal because i believe that upgrading existing laws and bringing them up to international standards are sure indicators of the continued successful development of an eu that wants to ensure the highest quality standards for its citizens.
written. ‒ i supported the proposal to repeal the existing laws on caseins and caseinates and replace them with a new regulation, as i believe that this way the legislation is harmonized and adapted to the international standards of the world health organization, as prescribed in the codex alimentarius, the book of food laws. furthermore, as this alignment is part of the commission's refit programme, which aims to ensure the adequacy and effectiveness of regulations through a smaller, simpler and more cost-effective eu legislation, i believe that it will ensure transparency of food products and final consumers, which will ultimately be of great benefit to people who are allergic, intolerant or sensitive to a particular type of food. the six-month period given to member states to transpose this regulation into their national law also seems to me to be entirely appropriate.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending regulation (eu, euratom) no 966/2012 on the financial rules applicable to the general budget of the union (com ((2014) 0358 c8 0029/2014 2014/0180 ((cod)) adopting a position at first reading, as those proposals improve the way the general budget of the union is used. in order to ensure the efficient and effective use of union funds, the commission should be able to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 290 tfeu. the rules should be such as to achieve maximum transparency in all respects, to ensure equal opportunities and rights for the entities using the funds, to use cost-saving mechanisms in the use of the funds and to avoid possible abuses or other irregularities.
written. ‒ i believe that these amendments will bring the rules of the financial regulation into line with directive 2014/24/eu on public procurement and thus contribute to improving the application of legislation in the field of labour law, environmental and social policy and to stricter penalties in cases of conflicts of interest and serious unprofessional practices, fraud, corruption, money laundering, terrorist financing, tax fraud, tax avoidance and aggressive tax planning. as this report calls for and encourages the use of online public procurement to manage the resources of the european union in the most efficient and transparent way possible, i supported the proposal for a european parliament legislative resolution amending regulation (eu) no 966/2012 of the european parliament and of the council on the financial rules applicable to the general budget of the european union.
written. ‒ the report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending the regulation on the financial rules applicable to the general budget of the union shows that the members of the committee on budgets have understood the need to align the financial regulation with the new directives on public procurement and on the award of concession contracts awarded by the european institutions on their own account. the commission has therefore proposed a number of amendments to the original commission proposal with the clear intention that the final form of the new regulation should protect the financial interests of the union in the best possible way. the opinions of the committee on external affairs and the committee on budgetary control, which also proposed amendments to the commission proposal and invited the committee on budgets to take them into account as the committee responsible, were also taken into account. the principles applicable to public procurement, exclusion criteria for economic operators involved in tax fraud, definition of conflicts of interest and serious misconduct, giving economic operators the opportunity to submit their observations before being excluded from a given public procurement procedure, early detection and exclusion system for economic operators in the commission of an offence and electronic procurement are some of the areas covered by this report. i believe that this report protects the interests not only of the european institutions but also of us as individuals and i will therefore support it.
written. ‒ i welcome the commission's efforts and proposed amendments aimed at harmonising financial regulation and the provisions of the new directives on public procurement and the award of concession contracts. in particular, it is necessary to support requests to strengthen communication between contracting authorities and the european parliament and the council, as well as between the commission and parliament. i also welcome calls for stricter controls on contracts with economic operators themselves and evaluation of their performance, with a view to increasing liability for any damage to the european union's financial interests, but also to ensuring that the jobs contribute to policy achievements and produce added value. in addition, the amendments introduce important distinctions and more detailed definitions which make the commission's text itself more precise and clearer for interpretation. the specific measures proposed to prevent conflicts of interest, ensure fair competition between bidders and protect whistleblowers are commendable. the commission also notes that the commission has not yet adopted a decision on the selection of the tenderers for the procurement of the services provided by the public procurement authorities. finally, account should be taken of the need for some flexibility in the application of the general procurement rules with regard to the common foreign and security policy, i.e. to avoid situations where regulatory alignment leads to delays in the procurement of critical equipment for security missions which may compromise the safety of personnel.
written. ‒ i support the proposal to amend the regulation on the financial rules applicable to the general budget of the union, which aims to align the financial regulations with the provisions of the new directives on public procurement and the award of concession contracts. as vice-chairman of the foreign affairs committee, i would like to point out the change in article 190 which relates to public procurement of external action. common security and defence policy missions often operate in crisis areas and within a limited timeframe. the current financial rules, which are in fact designed for a functioning and stable european internal market, cause delays in the delivery of key materials, which very often take only six months after the call for tenders. this threatens the credibility of the european union at international level, given the fact that the eu is taking on important commitments in peace and security activities around the world. in the light of the above, i consider that the establishment of specific financial rules and more flexible procedures is necessary in order to maximise the effectiveness of financial management and the achievement of the union's objectives.
written. ‒ this explanation of the vote arises as a criticism of the existing system of evaluating the work of meps in the european parliament solely on the basis of the statistical number of parliamentary activities promoted in croatia, which does not actually reflect the actual quality and quantity of work, efficiency and above all the success of the representative action.
written. ‒ i support this report because it would further protect the financial interests of the union and should improve the rules on exclusion from participation in procurement procedures. therefore, a single system should be established to enhance the protection of the financial interests of the union by taking into account the central exclusion database. the commission should be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 290 tfeu concerning the conditions for the granting of a derogation from the prohibition on the use of the term 'competent authority' in the context of the application of this regulation. the contracting authority should also exclude the economic operator from the procedure if a final administrative decision or judgment has been taken in a case of serious misconduct, breach of obligations, money laundering, terrorist financing and the like. it is necessary to clarify which economic operators have access to the procurement procedure of the union institutions themselves depending on their place of establishment. in order to ensure that the financial interests of the union are protected, the commission should be able to impose on the member states the obligation to notify the commission of the measures taken to implement the budget.
written. ‒ this report presents a revision of the financial rules on the general budget of the european union following the adoption of the directives on public procurement and on the award of concession contracts. some of the changes made concern non-governmental organizations, and it was decided that assimilation of such organizations with international organizations would continue to be possible, but only in strictly defined circumstances. furthermore, it is expected to improve the method of presenting performance information in the annual activity reports, which will also include the european added value achieved. some of the changes also concern financial instruments and the european parliament has thus ensured that non-payment of taxes and social security benefits results in exclusion from these financial instruments. in addition, the revision of the rules has reduced the processing time of the special reports of the european court of auditors. i fully support this proposal as it is clear that existing rules always need to be adapted to new situations and the changes mentioned above, as well as many others set out in this report, will lead to improvements in the efficiency of the union and all its bodies.
written. ‒ i supported the proposal to amend the financial rules applicable to the general budget to take account of the new public procurement directives, and to aim at a better use of public funds and greater accessibility of public contracts to economic operators. in particular, i consider that the proposed measures, such as increased market consultation and stricter provisions based on economically most favourable decisions, will protect the financial interests of the european union. i consider that these amendments can ensure that the grounds for exclusion, eligibility conditions and selection criteria for public procurement are more transparent and clear to all entities, as reflected, inter alia, in the extension of the exclusion criteria to tax fraud, tax evasion and misappropriation of public funds. i strongly support strengthening the integrity and transparency of public procurement processes through early detection of irregularities and exclusion, which is why i voted in favour of these changes.
madam president, the capital markets union is certainly something that, in combination with the plans that mr juncker has put forward on behalf of the commission, can make a significant contribution to a good investment climate. of course, we need, especially for smes and start-ups, new and innovative capital markets, ways in which capital will be available and where our young and small entrepreneurs will have the opportunity to access money more easily. but here, mr. katainen, i would like to emphasize something else. i would like to stress the need for both municipalities and cities, i.e. local government units, to have easier access to cheaper and better quality resources than they can through bank loans. the municipalities, cities and regions in europe can participate in transforming our economy and creating investment, and that is why i invite you to think carefully about how to involve them in this capital markets union.
madam president, i regard this new way of regulating payment transactions in the internal market as a strengthening of the internal market. i also see it as a great help for small and medium-sized businesses, craftsmen, individuals. like one big win for the small consumer. i think this is another important moment in the classic win-win situation where we get the extra security that we so desperately need in the marketplace when we're talking about online payments where we still experience a lot of fraud. we have lower costs, cheaper business, better quality information that we'll be able to provide to all those who will use these services. so i congratulate everyone who worked on this document and i'm sure we'll all vote yes tomorrow.
madam president, it is five years since the ecological disaster in hungary which caused human casualties, immeasurable damage and long-term consequences in hungary, but also showed that such disasters operate beyond the borders of hungary. what i would like to draw to the attention of our commissioner is that he ask the member states to analyse all the environmental bombs within their borders, because here i will give the example of croatia which has at least one more environmental bomb, also a pool of red mud unsuccessfully drained, marked by corruption in the place of obrovac next to the former clay factory. it's a potential environmental bomb that could threaten the zrmanja river and the adriatic sea. however, when it comes to cross-border impact, in bosnia and herzegovina near mostar, commissioner, we have 12 million tons in one pool of red mud that in the event of an accident can pollute the neretva river and cause long-term pollution in croatia in the neretva valley. so it pays to look at what is in the neighbourhood outside the eu member states and react in time to avoid disasters like the one that happened in hungary.
president of the council. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, madam president, i have to confess to you that i too am a feminist because i had the opportunity to work in development cooperation in a previous life. i have gained the absolute conviction that development comes through women, it comes through women's education and it comes through women's integration into economic life. i really believe that the future of development is women. equality between men and women is at the heart of european values. it is an integral part of the legal and political framework of the european union. the union and its member states are among the main actors in the protection and implementation of women's rights, which they also defend in their external relations. the year 2015 is an important year as it marks both the adoption of the post-2015 development agenda, the 15th anniversary of un security council resolution 1325 on women, peace and security, and the 20th anniversary of the adoption of the beijing declaration and programme of action. it is in this context that the union and its member states are continuing and intensifying their efforts in a matter which they regard as a priority. during the second half of the year, the luxembourg presidency will continue the work carried out in recent years in the council on gender and development. it is based in particular on the conclusions adopted by the council last may on gender equality in development. the presidency will ensure that gender issues remain at the heart of the priorities of the union and its member states, both within the union and in its external policy. within the council bodies, we are currently working with the member states, the commission and the european external action service on the implementation of the new action plan for gender equality and women's empowerment. globally, significant progress has been made in gender equality and the empowerment of women and girls. access to primary education for girls has improved significantly in recent years. women's economic empowerment is progressing. more women now have access to health care and modern contraceptive methods, and maternal mortality has decreased considerably. however, it must be admitted that progress is not as rapid as we would like and that it is very unevenly spread between regions, between countries and sometimes even within the same country. every day, around the world, the rights of women and girls continue to be violated: access to education is denied, discrimination in employment, lower pay for equal work, discriminatory or harassing laws, domestic violence, trafficking and sexual exploitation, and female genital mutilation. all these examples remind us of the need for the european union not to slacken its efforts, but to intensify them decisively. we want the new action plan recently presented by the commission to be an effective tool for promoting the rights of women and girls. it must make it possible to significantly improve the situation of women and girls, who are still the victims of discrimination. we welcome the fact that reports on the implementation of the new action plan are mandatory and are planned as a joint exercise between the various actors in the european union. another innovative approach is the institutional cultural shift envisaged by the document which calls on eu delegations, both at headquarters and in the field, to integrate gender in an automatic and transversal way in all sectors. in the coming days and weeks we will continue to work actively in the council on this matter. a gender and development item will be on the agenda of the foreign affairs council meeting with the development ministers on 26 october. the council will adopt conclusions and the new action plan for equality between men and women. ladies and gentlemen, the european union and the member states must remain at the forefront of the fight for equality between men and women. the presidency will make every effort to do so.
member of the commission.– mr president, i am here on behalf of my colleague neven mimica. i hope to meet ms mcavan’s concerns by addressing her questions with the commission’s position. addressing the delay in the achievement of gender equality worldwide, the european union wants to provide concrete, high-impact actions and measures, supported by more targeted funding, gender expertise and strong political leadership in all its external policies, including in international cooperation and development. we confirmed this intention in the recent global process of adoption of the new sustainable development goals. this is exactly what the commission’s services and the european external action service had in mind when putting forward the new framework for action on gender equality and women’s empowerment through eu external relations from 2016 to 2020. looking at its scope and substance, it is a more ambitious, robust and results-oriented successor to the current eu gender action plan in development, which will soon expire. its ambition is clearly seen in its thematic and geographical coverage: it will apply in all eu external policies, including trade and, where relevant, humanitarian assistance. it will apply in all our partner countries, including in fragile and emergency situations. it will focus on transformative areas for girls and women, so as to eliminate all forms of violence or discrimination, to give them equal access to natural and economic resources and to empower them socially and politically. let me stress this: the level of ambition and commitment of this new framework have not been affected by its format as a joint staff working document. it is a positive step change that will ensure that the commission’s services and the european external action service work together effectively, coherently and strategically, making sure that the fulfilment of girls’ and women’s rights are a tangible reality. we expect the member states to endorse our new approach soon through relevant council conclusions, by making a widely applicable and coordinated effort at eu level. i would like to invite the european parliament to join this collective endeavour, so we can maximise our impact and results on the ground. i am convinced that the change has to start from home: shifting the institutional culture – including through dedicated leadership in all european union institutions and member states – is key to ensuring a more effective delivery of gender-sensitive outcomes. rest assured that adequate financial and human resources and gender expertise to implement the new framework will be provided. for instance, specific support will be provided to our staff in eu delegations and headquarters, through helpdesks and targeted training. the commission’s commitment is also quantifiable: the development cooperation instrument has already earmarked around eur 100 million for measures targeting gender equality. much more is going to be spent by programmes tackling other sectors and priorities – like agriculture, energy, justice and migration – that consistently take women’s and girls’ perspectives into account. a strong monitoring and reporting structure is also being put into place to make all actors, at all levels, accountable for the results of implementation. in conclusion, let me reiterate our full commitment to the effective implementation of this new gender framework and to making the necessary changes happen. we hope to have parliament’s support, and i personally am sure that parliament will support this initiative for the commission.
on behalf of the ppe club. mr president, first of all i would like to congratulate rapporteur lindi mcavan and welcome the resolution on the renewal of the eu action plan as voted in the development committee of this parliament. now just a few figures on why this issue is important and why it really deserves communication from the european commission. every year, 14 million girls are forced into marriage, 62 million are out of school, and many countries still have discriminatory laws and practices that deny women their rights, access to resources and jobs, and participation in political and economic life. in some lands, girls are selectively aborted simply because they are girls. such harmful practices are not only hindering the development of women, but also of their nations and countries, because investing in women brings multiple returns. on average, women reinvest 90 percent of their income back into their families and communities compared to 30 to 40 percent of what men do. when only 10 percent more girls go to school, gdp grows by an average of 3 percent in developing countries. so we have to point out here that when it comes to sustainable development, it pays to empower women. that is why in the resolution on the new global development framework adopted last year, we made it very clear that women must not only achieve equality, but must also play a central role in the new development agenda.
mr. president, i want to congratulate ms. zaborska on her commitment and consistency. this report supports the fundamental principle of 'equal pay for equal work' and i agree that this kind of discrimination can no longer be tolerated, if the data is correct, and i believe it is, that according to some indicators women are paid 15% less, and translated into days that means 60 days more work than men. so the question is, what kind of society wants half of its potential to remain untapped? i don't think any society, any member state wants that. it also raises the question of how many more times we'll have a report like this or something like it, mrs. zaborska. the fact is that all these years, despite all the efforts, not enough has been done. however, i would agree that this is a cultural or civilization issue, that member states must take measures to ensure equal opportunities for women and men, we need to ensure the dignity of women, and i therefore expect the commission to introduce better supervision, to carry out some kind of audit. it's the only way we're going to move forward, mrs. zaborska.
mr president, equal opportunities and equal treatment for men and women in employment and labour have so far not borne fruit because there has been no serious insistence on the law being enforced. i regret that we are not prepared to turn around and adopt a different approach to this problem, but it is proposed to further intensify efforts in the same direction. by piling up regulations, we can only put an additional burden on european companies, and this will have a negative impact on all workers both women and men. i guess the goal is to get as many women and men to work as possible, not as few. the proposed annual gender business plans and staff training on equality and diversity are mere formality that will change nothing, except that the cost increases will put a few workers of any gender out of work, and the laws will continue to fail to apply themselves.
mr. president, this house likes to call itself the home of european democracy. this house will be discussing today four cases of human rights violations around the world. this house is debating today a subject that has been debated as if we were in the middle ages, for here i am listening to the arguments of some who will not support this report. they really live in the middle ages! if we in this house today still have to talk about equality and equity and if some people deliberately don't want to understand that, then they are really living in the middle ages. i am sorry to hear today some of the arguments against this report, arguments that are not arguments at all, but ideology that is breaking down equality and equality and that is exactly what equality and equality is about.
mr. president, excuse me for barging in during the session, but we have a problem with the croatian translation, we simply don't have the croatian translation. now we didn't have it in german, we didn't have it in english before, so please, i can understand some languages, but i can't understand all of them, so i'd like to ask you to try and see if we can get translations.
mr president, geo-blocking is one of the most pernicious discriminations we face in today's single market and one of the biggest obstacles that new technologies offer in creating a digital single market. the european union was born out of the desire for a single market and today we are faced with technology that is holding us back. therefore, and because of the personal experience i have had and the experience my colleagues have had, i really want to call on the commission to try to do as much as possible and as soon as possible to prevent this perfidious way of marketing various products and services and so that europe can really develop a digital single market.
mr president, the central african republic is a country that has gone through various processes in recent years - from reconciliation, from attempts to normalize relations, to the now evident deterioration of the situation, to the fact that we have reached a situation where peacekeeping missions have been attacked, to the fact that we have had murders, robberies and looting in recent weeks. the big question is whether the election will solve the problem. of course, elections are the most democratic thing, and if everyone respects the results of the elections, then we can expect that the elections will probably solve the problem or at least pave the way for solving the problem. however, the fact remains that there are still various hidden interests that exist when we talk about the great resources that the central african republic has, especially when we talk about diamonds and timber, and the big question is whether the elections alone will solve the problem or whether our continued engagement in the central african republic and in other countries that are of interest to the european union will solve the problem.
member of the commission.– madam president, i completely agree with the house. thailand is an important partner, including in our relations with the whole region. thailand is an ancient and proud nation which is admired and loved for its nature, its culture and, most of all, for its people. our main concern is the lack of progress in solving what seems to be a cycle of political conflict – at times violent political conflict – and military takeovers. thailand needs to bridge divides in society as in politics. the bridges are not being built yet. respecting human rights is essential for solving thailand’s crisis. human rights violations are an offence to human dignity and also a major obstacle to long-term stability and prosperity. freedom of expression, not censorship; freedom of assembly, not restrictions or ‘attitude adjustments’; due process of law, not judging civilians in military courts: all these are prerequisites for an inclusive and peaceful process which should lead, without further delay, to the establishment of full democracy. it is against this background that we welcome the focus on thailand’s situation and today’s debate, and i would stress the importance of parliament’s calls for respect for human rights and for thailand’s early return to democratic governance. the european union has done much already and will continue its policy of critical engagement taking a value-based approach. our approach was first established with the council conclusions of 23 june 2014, which called for the urgent restoration of the legitimate democratic process as well as respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms. it has since been followed with public statements and work for positive change. we have stepped up our work in many different ways, such as diplomatic monitoring of key court cases and meetings with those fighting for democracy and human rights. allow me to raise one last important problem which pre-dates the military takeover and which a number of meps are very concerned about: forced labour in the thai seafood industry. we are fully aware of this dramatic problem, and we will continue to take it up with our thai counterparts. on the positive side, the thai authorities have publicly declared that they will address it, and have already taken some initial constructive steps, but much still needs to be done. no person should be working in slave-like conditions in the 21st century. european consumers and european buyers are increasingly aware of how the goods they consume are produced, and demand transparency and socially responsible supply chains. the day before yesterday, parliament strongly supported the swift ratification within the eu of the international labour organisation protocol against forced labour. i hope thailand follows your example very soon. to conclude, the european union is not just a fair-weather friend. the debate here today and parliament’s commitment are proof of our solidarity and continued friendship with the people of thailand. we will remain engaged with the government of thailand, and we call for the early return to democratic governance in the country, as was stated in the council conclusions of june 2014. lastly, regarding mr andrew hall, a labour rights activist, i congratulate our colleagues on raising this issue. the european union has been following the situation of mr hall closely for quite some time. the delegation there will arrange observation of his trial on 19 october 2015. the european union will continue to monitor the situation closely and to raise concerns with the authorities.
written. i support this resolution because of the state of emergency in thailand, which was caused primarily by the fact that on 20 may 2014 the government was overthrown by the state army, which was followed by lawlessness and unrest. restrictions on freedom of assembly and the imposition of harsh penalties for offenses such as obstruction of public services are just some of the factors contributing to thailand's alarming situation. there are also numerous cases of human rights violations, such as the accusation of rioting and lawbreaking by peaceful protesters, or the fact that the death penalty is still regularly applied. also, the security situation of local communities and activists has been worsened by the military coup itself with military personnel appointed as 'order and peace officers' to arbitrarily detain people, conduct investigations and conduct searches without warrants. thailand has an international treaty obligation to investigate such cases and to take action for serious human rights violations.
mr president, i condemn the incitement to exodus and the cruelty towards children, especially girls, perpetrated by boko haram, not only in the territory of nigeria, where the main base of this terrorist group is located, but also in the territory of cameroon, chad and niger. it is totally unacceptable that children are denied the opportunity to attend school, that they are deprived of the joys of growing up and all the beauty that childhood brings. they're being kidnapped and taken from their families. i also point out that this terrorist group is targeting and killing christians, and in the last few years they have killed 10,000 people. the terror they're carrying out has left about 250,000 people on the run. the killing carried out by boko haram is an unacceptable crime. i personally condemn this and call on everyone to stop these murders being carried out by this terrorist group. our answer must be clear. we must stop the financial flows to boko haram and support the forces fighting boko haram and strengthen the european union's humanitarian aid to the children who are victims of this terrorist group.
madam president, first of all, i would like to express my condolences to the families of the victims of the latest boko haram attack that took place in nigeria last week. hundreds of thousands of children have been forced to flee their homes in nigeria because of boko haram, and that is why we must support nigeria and its government in their efforts to fight boko haram. in that sense, i welcome the decision of the conference of presidents to invite president buhari to come to this parliament next year. we need humanitarian aid, of course, but we also need to help the nigerian government to respond to the causes of both crisis and conflict, to extreme poverty, to massive social inequality, and to endemic corruption, because it's unacceptable that a country so rich in natural resources has almost two-thirds of its population below the poverty line, and that's actually a breeding ground for the radicalism that we're seeing in nigeria right now. the commission therefore considers that the commission should also place particular emphasis on the importance of fighting corruption within edf.
written. my predecessors have spoken of the tragic fate of mr. al-nimr who was sentenced to death. like all before me, i ask for a pardon for him and his immediate release. but i must also say a few words here about the eu's behaviour towards the countries where human rights are most grossly violated. the debate on the truly tragic fate of innocent people, which is on the agenda of every thursday session, i see as a washing of the dirty conscience of the approximately 152 billion euros of economic trade with the gulf countries that is expected this year. is money really more valuable than human lives? and where does that end? why don't we ask ourselves how many refugees saudi arabia has taken in so far and why do refugees prefer to go to europe? i ask myself and you together what the european union will do concretely, in financial and economic terms, to show the saudi ruler and his ilk in the middle east that it does not agree with their policies and that the protection of human dignity and life is more important to it than money.
written. ‒ i support this report, which is an agreed compromise between the european parliament and the european council. this report ensures the development of new procedures and new actors in payment services while ensuring security and transparency for consumers.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the draft legislative resolution of the european parliament on the proposal for a directive of the parliament and of the council on payment services in the internal market and amending directives 2002/65/ec, 2016/36/ec and 2009/110/ec and repealing directive 2007/64/ec, because it reduces differences between member states and balances the legal framework within the union in that area, and guarantees a higher degree of legal certainty. the commission should also be able to use the information provided by the member states to assess the impact of the proposed measures on the financial markets. however, i believe that particular attention should be paid to the transparency of such processes, ensuring data protection and clearly informing consumers of their rights, and encouraging new technologies in line with the growing needs for innovation. in this way, payment services provide consumers with greater choice and reflect the balance between an open market and payment security. that's why i'm supporting this motion.
written. ‒ this proposal for a directive aims to create a harmonised legal framework to create a single and integrated payment system in the european union. the measures covered by this proposal for a directive aim to standardise and enable the inter-operability of card, mobile and internet payment services; to encourage competition between different payment service providers with a view to increasing efficiency and transparency and security in retail payments; to encourage the cross-border use of innovative cards, internet and mobile payments in order to ensure a single market for retail payments; and to ensure adequate consumer protection in the field of payments, in particular in the area of new forms of payment. this proposal will reduce payment costs and allow new service providers to enter the market, while at the same time raising the level of security for consumers. that's why i supported the report of representative tajani.
written. ‒ the current eu payment market is fragmented and expensive. its cost is over 1% of the european union's gdp, or €130 billion a year. that's a cost the economy can't afford. the commission should also be able to provide information on the number of cases of fraud and irregularities in the union, the number of cases of fraud and irregularities in the member states and the number of cases of irregularities in the union. the exchange fees paid by retailers are found on invoices issued to consumers. not only are consumers often unaware of this, but they are now being encouraged by reward systems to use the cards that provide their banks with the greatest revenue. a level playing field will be created for payment service providers, new providers will be given the opportunity to be part of the market and offer innovative services, retailers will make big savings by paying less fees to their banks, and consumers will benefit from lower retail prices.
written. ‒ the proposal for a directive is of particular importance as significant areas of the payments market, in particular card payments and online and mobile payments, remain fragmented across national borders and payment service providers face challenges in introducing innovative, secure and user-friendly digital payment services. the proposal, as amended by the european parliament, fills certain regulatory gaps, aiming to modernise the legislative framework for payment services in line with technological and market developments, increase consumer choice, encourage lower prices for payment services and improve online payment security. the amendments to the proposed directive further clarify the conditions and implications of excluding certain payment transactions from the scope of directive 2007/64/ec and extend the scope of services covered by the directive to account information and payment initiation services, with a view to increasing the transparency and security of such transactions. in order to prevent the arbitrary use of exclusion practices from the directive in different member states, service providers should be obliged to notify relevant activities to the competent authorities of the member states and a notification procedure should be provided for any exclusion based on compliance with a threshold. the commission has also concluded that the proposed directive would not be compatible with the internal market if it were to be applied in the same way as the directive on the internal market.
written. ‒ i agree with the proposal of my colleague antonio tajani on the issue of payment services in the internal market. the aim is to further market integration and reduce fragmentation in the area. given the high potential for innovation in the electronic payment market in europe, this initiative should give consumers and traders the opportunity to take full advantage of the free market. the aim is therefore to encourage the further development of the electronic payment market at eu level, which is in line with today's global processes of moving away from traditional modes of trade and towards the digital economy. the aim is also to reduce costs and prices for payment service users, to create greater choice and transparency of payment services, to improve payment security, and to facilitate the emergence of new entities and innovative payment methods. in addition to updating the current framework for payment services, it is also necessary to adopt rules that will deliver on the principles of transparency and security, taking into account the legitimate needs of consumers. payment service providers should ensure the security of users and reduce the risk of fraud. personal data will only be transferred through secure channels and shared with the consent of the user.
written. ‒ this explanation of the vote arises as a criticism of the existing system of evaluating the work of meps in the european parliament solely on the basis of the statistical number of parliamentary activities promoted in croatia, which does not actually reflect the actual quality and quantity of work, efficiency and above all the success of the representative action.
written. ‒ i support this report because the development of the digital economy is of great importance for the establishment of an integrated single market for electronic payments and the economy as a whole. this will enable consumers, traders and companies to enjoy all the benefits of the internal market. in recent years, there has been a significant improvement in the integration of payment transactions into retail sales within the union. however, important areas of the payment market, in particular card payments and online and mobile payments, remain fragmented within national borders. it is important to point out that the continuous growth in the volume of electronic payment transactions worldwide and the increase in technical complexity and feasibility are leading to security risks. security services are one of the key conditions for the payment services market because of the very protection of the users of the services. the payment service users should be fully insured against risk in order to ensure the smooth functioning of the market and to contribute to key economic and social activities.
written. ‒ this proposal covers, but also repeals, the payment services directive (psd) which lays down the basis for a coherent legal framework programme for the creation of an integrated payments market. some of the measures aimed at improving and complementing the current framework programme for payment services include increasing competitiveness among all categories of payment service providers, ensuring a single market for all forms of retail payments, focusing on standardisation and interoperability for card and online payments, and ensuring adequate and constant protection of consumers' interests in the context of payment transactions, which in practice will mean extending the protection provided to new forms of payment services. i support this report because the improvement of regulation in the context of payment services in the eu will lead to better protection of consumers and more forms of payment services will become available to them. furthermore, by focusing on standardisation of existing and new services, the process of using different payment methods will be made easier for eu citizens.
written. ‒ i regard the commission's proposal as a good example of the healthy added value that the union can bring to individual member states in a more appropriate and efficient way than could be achieved by any individual member state. i consider the establishment of a harmonised legal framework for an integrated payment market to be a necessary and necessary consequence of the upgrading of the already existing framework, which is changing dynamically and progressively with the times, and in particular with the development of e-commerce. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's macro-financial assistance to the countries of central and eastern europe, including the countries of the former soviet union, and will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's macro-financial assistance to the countries of central and eastern europe. in the context of comprehensive and unstoppable digitisation, proposals that, by making the rules the same for all, lead to more choice and a higher level of protection for the end-user - the consumer - will always receive my full support.
written. ‒ i support this question on the legislation on mortgages and risky financial instruments in the eu based on the example of the case from spain. hundreds of thousands of people were made homeless by unfair consumer credit at that time, and that must never be allowed to happen again. the enforcement of the mortgage act should be monitored, individuals given a second chance and entities that are regularly involved in bad banking practices blacklisted.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution on the legislation on mortgages and risk financial instruments in the eu: the case of spain, because i believe that the eu has a major problem with 'toxic' financial products that affect citizens. eu legislation should appropriately regulate the practice of selling financial products and services as well as all other types of products on the european market in order to protect consumers. the process of selling such instruments should offer maximum protection to clients in the form of all necessary information, in particular on the possible risks, and should be as transparent as possible. the commission should also be able to provide information on the impact of the financial instruments on the financial markets and on the impact of the financial instruments on the financial markets. in addition, eu legislation must regulate the types and necessary characteristics of financial products in the same way in all member states in order to avoid risks for consumers. the commission has also examined the possibility of granting loans in the form of a loan to a bank in the form of a loan to a bank in the form of a loan to a bank in the form of a loan to a bank in the form of a loan to a bank in the form of a loan.
written. ‒ a solution must be found to the problem that has arisen in spain, where many citizens have lost their property due to the inability to pay a loan that has increased considerably in a short time. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the new rules and to monitor the implementation of the new rules. although the proposed resolution calls for an improvement in the situation, the steps to achieve this are not well-designed enough and i therefore voted against this resolution. at a time like this, it's not effective to just call for action, and it's not good to be sloppy about pursuing a goal that hasn't been taken. in addition, when spain was offered the possibility of arbitration, it refused, which suggests that it is not fully prepared to resolve the problem jointly. it also seeks the possibility of datio in solutum, which is by no means a solution to the problem in spain. the effect of adopting a contract datio in solutum is that the original contract is not executed or amended, which is a situation in which a solution has not been reached.
written. ‒ i support parliament's efforts to strengthen the supervision of existing laws and new legislative initiatives to protect consumers in spain, but also in other countries, from financial risks, fraud and unfair contractual terms, especially in the case of mortgage debtors, and given the extremely difficult situation and the data on the number of victims of financial fraud and evictions. the case of swiss franc loans in croatia is another example of illegal banking, which was confirmed by the supreme court of the republic of croatia, and which points to the general poor state of consumer protection. the croatian parliament acted by amending the consumer credit act, thereby allowing for conversion in the sense that the initially approved principal of the credit denominated in francs is converted into euros at the rate applicable on the date of disbursement of the credit, and the initially agreed interest rate in 'swiss francs' is replaced by the interest rate for the credit in euros. in this context, i welcome the call to financial entities in the eu to stop dealing in mortgages and other financial products and services unfairly, and to stop imposing excessive interest rates. i also support the call for an information campaign to raise the level of financial literacy of eu citizens and to make them aware of the risks they take.
written. ‒ this explanation of the vote arises as a criticism of the existing system of evaluating the work of meps in the european parliament solely on the basis of the statistical number of parliamentary activities promoted in croatia, which does not actually reflect the actual quality and quantity of work, efficiency and above all the success of the representative action.
written. ‒ the numerous petitions so far have highlighted thousands of tragic personal stories of spanish citizens about the partial or total loss of their property, and continue to testify to the inability of consumers to access quality and useful information on the use of financial instruments. in the wake of the country's crisis, many spanish families faced not only forced eviction from their homes, but also continued mortgage repayments, which in turn involved a whole host of potentially abusive clauses and practices. although this motion for a resolution potentially brings a number of positive changes in the mortgage market, such as stricter controls on the implementation of the court's decision in case c-415 (aziz) as well as of council directive 93/13/eec on mortgage legislation, and thus better consumer protection, i cannot fully agree with this motion, as some parts of it do not agree with the epp group's positions.
written. ‒ in view of the unfair terms and practices in the mortgage sector in spain as established by the national and european courts, i believe that answers to the questions raised by the european parliament's committee on petitions are absolutely necessary at this time. in fact, 95 spanish families are evicted every day because of their inability to pay their mortgage. i believe that the commission should take effective measures to prevent further unfair practices, both in spain and in other member states. this is necessary as it is estimated that 700 000 spanish citizens were victims of financial fraud because their banks, using the lack of information provided, sold them risky financial instruments. it is clear that unless the commission takes appropriate steps to protect eu citizens from entering into contracts without a sufficient understanding of the financial risks they take, more and more families will be left without their homes. the same sad practice, unfortunately, is daily occurring in my homeland.
written. ‒ on the occasion of the 13th day against the death penalty, questions were asked about the european union's direction and relations with countries that support the death penalty. i consider the death penalty to be a bad and extremely inhumane way of punishing the perpetrators of a crime, especially when we consider that throughout history there have been a number of cases in which innocent people have been sentenced to death. i therefore fully support these issues and am interested in how the eu plans to deal in the future with countries that still support the death penalty as a form of punishment for offenders.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the european parliament's resolution on the death penalty, as the death penalty is contrary to the principle of humanity and human rights. the abolition of the death penalty is a modern civilization and a democratic achievement as well as an achievement of the rule of law. in addition, it is important to consider the possibility that an innocent person may be wrongly accused, as has been known to happen, as well as examples of miscarriages of justice. on the other hand, there are some extremely serious crimes for which the severity of the prison sentence is not commensurate with the seriousness of the crime.
written. ‒ the death penalty is an extremely cruel, inhuman and degrading punishment that violates the right to life contained in the universal declaration of human rights. the european union takes a firm stance against the death penalty. the death penalty has been shown to have no deterrent effect on crime and drug trafficking and most individuals convicted on this basis were at the bottom of the drug trafficking hierarchy. the european parliament resolution stresses the need to abolish the death penalty in order to respect human dignity and ethical standards and calls for an immediate and absolute end to this practice. we call on all member states to continue the fight against the death penalty and call on the commission to continue funding this project. i supported the resolution because i am absolutely against the death penalty and i support the fight against this inhuman and degrading act. i believe that every person has an inherent right to life, and that right must be respected.
written. - i strongly oppose the death penalty but it still exists in some countries in africa, the united states, especially in china. recently, executions have increased, especially in situations where the death penalty is imposed for drug-related crimes. the rise of terrorism also contributes to the increase in executions. under international law, the death penalty can only be imposed for serious crimes, but the death penalty for drug abuse or adultery is certainly not among the most serious crimes. the death penalty does not solve the problems of crime related to drug abuse, human trafficking or terrorism. i voted for this resolution because i believe that human life has no price, that it is a precious gift that we have no right to take away from anyone. by adopting this resolution, we are joining the fight against the degradation of human dignity and the violation of human rights and are working towards the prevention and abolition of the death penalty, as well as the abolition of stoning and the violation of the human dignity of minors and mentally ill persons. in addition, it encourages the resolution of real problems through effective solutions such as funding to fight drug crime, rather than punishing people.
written. ‒ given that international treaties and un opinions have listed the death penalty as exceptionally permissible in cases of 'the most serious offences', the data on the increasing number of death sentences for drug abuse, but also for homosexual relations, are alarming. while the eu opposes the death penalty in all its forms, it should especially condemn these specific situations and call for further efforts and encouragement to introduce a moratorium on the death penalty in all countries as a step towards its final abolition. i support, in particular, efforts to establish greater control within the eu on the transparency of drug support and assistance in countries that impose the death penalty, to ensure that this assistance is not used to facilitate prosecutions that lead to the imposition of death sentences. the commission has also published a report on the implementation of the death penalty in the eu, which is available in all eu languages. finally, special attention should be paid to cases of execution of minors, as well as persons with reduced mental or intellectual capacities, and to insist on the urgent cessation of such practices.
written. ‒ according to the latest available data, in 2014, at least 2466 people in 55 countries were sentenced to death and at least 607 people were executed worldwide in 2014, but this does not include persons presumed to have been executed in china, which continues to carry out more executions than all other countries in the world combined. the number of death sentences handed down and executed during 2015 remains alarming, as the increase in the number of death sentences handed down is closely linked to court verdicts in mass trials that are a reaction to terrorism-related offences in countries such as egypt and nigeria. the death penalty is often used against socially vulnerable persons, the mentally ill and members of national and cultural minorities. it is important to stress that its abolition contributes to the enhancement of human dignity and that the ultimate goal of the eu is its total abolition. according to the office of the un high commissioner for human rights, more than 160 un member states with different legal systems, traditions, cultures, and religious customs have abolished the death penalty or do not apply it. the death penalty is incompatible with the values on which the union is founded, such as respect for human dignity, freedom, democracy, equality and respect for human rights, and i therefore support the resolution on the abolition of the death penalty.
written. ‒ while a number of countries have made significant progress on this front, much remains to be done to achieve the abolition of the death penalty worldwide and this initiative should therefore be further supported. last year, 22 of the 58 countries that still have the death penalty carried out executions. this number should be further reduced until the death penalty is fully regulated in all countries. there is also the question of the death penalty for drug-related crimes. in addition, the eu has adopted a number of measures to combat drug trafficking, including the introduction of a new drug law in the eu. the union should address measures in the framework of its foreign policy and external relations to implement the campaign for the abolition of the death penalty and to identify possible actions in relation to third country liability. for the reasons i have given, i have supported the report.
written. - the death penalty has no place in the 21st century. europe has its own view on the death penalty and it's almost unanimous. i am happy that our societies have moved beyond this outdated method and that we treat even the worst criminals today as befits people whose civilization has been shaped by christianity. i believe that this european position on the death penalty should be promoted throughout the world, especially in relations with those third countries with which we have strong trade, diplomatic or military partnerships. but we must always keep in mind the cultural differences and choose the means to achieve our goals in this delicate political moment.
written. ‒ i support this question, which was asked about the lessons learned from the ecological disaster that happened in hungary five years ago. the collapse of the waste tank at the aluminum plant that caused the red mud contamination and over 150 injuries should be a warning to us all. the correct enforcement of eu laws and the removal of inspection shortcomings are key measures to prevent such things from happening in the future, and the fight for a clean environment must be a priority, not just for us but for the many generations to come.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the european parliament resolution on the red mud disaster, five years after the accident in hungary, as it is necessary to mark the anniversary of the disaster not only out of respect for the victims but also to do everything possible to avoid or prevent the disaster. although red mud is explicitly classified as hazardous waste today, at the time of the biggest industrial disaster in hungary on 4 october 2010, this was not the case. the accident has demonstrated the importance of the eu's civil protection mechanism, and highlighted the shortcomings of european environmental regulations and the problem of poor implementation of european laws. unfortunately, in this respect, no improvements have been made in recent years and there are still shortcomings in both the relevant eu legislation, supervision and implementation. the importance of preventing potential disasters, using the most advanced technological solutions and carrying out the necessary research must be emphasised. the commission should be able to take into account the impact of the waste management and recycling policy of the member states and the union.
written. ‒ on october 4, 2010, a dump of industrial waste in hungary collapsed, releasing nearly a million cubic meters of red mud that flooded several villages. ten people were killed, nearly 150 were injured, and vast tracts of land were contaminated. commission decision 2014/955/eu clearly classifies red sludge as hazardous waste and applies from 1 june 2015. the commission has also provided information on the number of inspections carried out by the member states in the past year. the commission therefore considers that the measures provided for in this regulation are in accordance with the opinion of the standing committee on plants, animals, food and feed, it is also important to inform the public about the pollution and its possible effects on flora and fauna and on the health of the local population. the importance of cooperation and solidarity at eu level in the event of natural and industrial disasters is also underlined. i supported the european parliament's resolution, aware of the unforeseeable consequences, the human casualties and the material damage. both in croatia and in the european union, the greater the technological development, the greater the exposure to natural disasters and their effects become more devastating, and preventive action is necessary.
the disaster caused by red mud in hungary, described as the worst industrial accident in hungary ever, has raised the alarm about the many, unfortunately still unresolved, 'black spots' in the eastern eu member states. addressing industrial pollution that has been generated for years during the communist-run eastern states without proper care and appropriate activities to ensure the safe management of hazardous industrial waste is expensive, and the cost of the treatment must be borne by the states as the owners of the waste, in most cases failed facilities. i support this resolution of the european parliament and, precisely to prevent a repetition of similar events, i call for an urgent debate on the implementation of the environmental liability directive with regard to the prevention and remedying of environmental damage. unfortunately, the commission has not yet reported on the implementation of this directive and the application of the 'polluter pays' principle is either circumvented or not fully applied in many situations across the eu. the commission considers that the aid is compatible with the internal market if it is granted in accordance with the rules on state aid. the commission has also found that the risk of a serious accident at the workplace is not a risk that is directly linked to the workplace, but that it is a risk that is directly linked to the workplace.
written. ‒ given the environmental protection principles in eu legislation, particularly in the area of preventive action and the polluter pays principle, i welcome the efforts of this resolution to increase monitoring instruments and strengthen environmental inspections and raise environmental standards at red mud sites. the commission has also received comments from the hungarian authorities, which have not provided any evidence that the accident occurred in the union. the commission should also be able to assess the impact of the measures taken by member states on the environment and the environmentally sound management of waste. the initiative for increased cooperation and coordinated action between national environmental inspection bodies of different member states is commendable. the european commission has also launched a pilot project to develop a european waste management strategy to address the problem of waste management in the eu.
‒ on 4 october 2010, a waste tank in hungary burst, leaking nearly one million cubic metres of highly alkaline red mud, killing ten people and polluting a large area of land. the red mud in that waste dump was hazardous waste, and this disaster is considered the worst industrial disaster in hungary. the commission has also received comments from the member states and the commission on the impact of the measures taken by the member states in the area of air quality. the commission should be able to verify that the conditions for the authorisation of the use of red mud are met. the commission and the member states are also invited to apply the relevant international conventions and regulations, to improve supervision and solidarity, and to cooperate in the event of a disaster. the commission should submit a legislative proposal on access to justice in environmental matters by 2016 in line with the provisions of the seventh environment action programme and develop the concept of risk-sharing instruments for industrial disasters in full respect of the polluter-pays principle. i therefore support the motion for a resolution.
written. ‒ i support this resolution because attention should be paid to environmental protection and the removal of previously caused pollution. the explosion of a waste dump in hungary on october 4, 2010, released nearly one million cubic meters of highly alkaline red mud into the environment. the accident killed 10 people, injured nearly 150, and contaminated large areas of land. the commission has also been working on a new strategy for the protection of the environment and the environment in the eu. the commission therefore concluded that the union industry did not suffer material injury within the meaning of article 3 (5) of the basic regulation.
on october 4, 2010, the collapse of a waste tank in hungary caused the release of nearly one million cubic meters of alkaline red mud, a toxic waste. several villages were flooded, dozens of people were killed, nearly 150 were injured, and vast areas of land were contaminated, including four natura 2000 sites. the commission has also examined whether the conditions for the classification of red mud as hazardous waste are met. in addition, the improper treatment of hazardous waste in a number of member states, as well as mining for ore, cause serious environmental pollution problems. the european parliament highlights the 2010 red mud disaster as hungary's worst industrial disaster, linked to poor implementation of eu laws. the current concern is that lessons have not been learned from the disaster and the key emphasis is on strengthening disaster prevention. the commission is therefore requested to place particular emphasis on research and development in the treatment of hazardous waste. i fully support the proposal to step up disaster prevention measures and to cooperate with the eu on this issue so that such accidents do not happen again in the future.
written. ‒ i supported the question from the environment, public health and food safety committee of the european parliament as the case of the cracked waste container in hungary shows how obvious it is that the european union needs a stronger and more effective prevention strategy and proper implementation of european union legislation. in october 2010, nearly a million cubic meters of highly alkaline red mud leaked into the environment in hungary, killing ten people, injuring nearly 150, and polluting large areas of land. i believe that five years after that accident is more than enough time for the council to devise and take measures to prevent such catastrophic accidents in the future and to remove pollution from mining activities, which should help to preserve the environment and the safety and health of all citizens of the european union, not just hungarians.
written. ‒ the new action plan for gender equality and the empowerment of women in development for 2016-2020 will seek to address the shortcomings of the previous plan in order to provide a solid basis for action in the three proposed priority areas: ensuring the physical and psychological integrity of women and girls, promoting women's economic rights and strengthening the role and participation of women and girls in processes. i support the deve committee's intention to ensure the quality implementation of the plan.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the european parliament's resolutions on the renewal of the eu action plan on gender equality and the empowerment of women in development, as the promotion of gender equality is one of the main principles on which the european union is founded. more political determination is needed to fully implement the eu guidelines on preventing violence against women and girls. in this context, enterprises must contribute to progress in the area of gender equality through measures that promote women's empowerment in the economy and the expansion of women's economic rights. i also support the inclusion of women in emerging economic areas such as the ict sector and the circular economy. therefore, i believe that more effective implementation strategies and quantitative and qualitative indicators of progress in the area concerned are needed to improve the monitoring and evaluation processes in view of the achievement of the objectives of the post-2015 global development framework.
written. ‒ i supported the european parliament's resolution on the renewal of the eu action plan for gender equality and the empowerment of women in developing countries because i believe that equality is the foundation of a modern society and should be integrated in all countries without exception. the european union is committed to promoting equality, which is a prerequisite for achieving sustainable development, but it is also a human rights issue that needs special attention. this is particularly true of women's rights which are still not fully realised. the member states are encouraged to set up a system to monitor equality, invest in government statistics and remove discriminatory legislation. the key aspects of the new cap are to eliminate all forms of inequality and discrimination by enabling women and girls to access education and economic and financial resources.
written. ‒ since the articles on the promotion of abortion, which i considered to be very controversial and problematic and not at all in the domain of the european union, were removed from the draft resolution, i supported this resolution. i also think it is important to reiterate that the concept of 'safe abortion' contained in the original motion for a resolution does not exist, since abortion is never safe, either for the mother or for the child whose life is lost. so i am pleased that this resolution in its final text is directed towards empowering women who today make up the majority of the world's poor people, empowering girls who today 62 million worldwide are out of school and 14 million of them are forced into marriage every year, towards protecting women who every third of them is exposed to violence at least once in their lives. the fight for women's empowerment and equality is extremely important, and it is even more important that this fight be sincere and directed towards the right goals, which, unfortunately, is often not the case when under the fight for women's rights, various initiatives are attempted to be pushed through which actually violate and violate women's rights, and while under the fight for women's rights, the right to life is denied, which must be the starting point of every fight for women's rights.
written. ‒ it is unacceptable that in the modern world, women still constitute the vast majority of the poor, that they are still the victims of sexual and domestic violence in large numbers, that in many parts of the world they still do not have access to the full enjoyment of their health, maternity and reproductive rights, that 62 million girls do not have access to education, and that women continue to be excluded from high positions in companies, business and economic sectors. as the persisting and chronic underinvestment in women's empowerment and gender equality has proven to be the cause of the slowdown in progress, further, more concrete and targeted action has been demonstrated in the form of a new eu gender and women's empowerment plan for developing countries, to be called gap 2. this proposal, which i fully support, calls for work on gender equality and women's empowerment as a core activity of the eu institutions with clear management responsibility in the central administration, and invites all eu delegations to submit an annual report on the implementation of the cap. it is necessary, in cooperation with competent socio-political actors, to ensure an enabling environment, the removal of social and legal barriers, women's access to the means of production, gender-sensitive budgeting and, most importantly, a comprehensive eu approach to violence against women with increased efforts and resources to prevent and eliminate all discriminatory practices against women.
‒ the european union is committed to promoting gender equality and ensuring its inclusion in all areas of its action, as gender equality and the empowerment of women are prerequisites for achieving the post-2015 sustainable development goals and also a separate human rights issue that should be addressed independently of its benefits for development and growth. given the particularly disadvantaged status of girls and young women, focus should be placed on ensuring girls' access to education and enabling them to live a life free from violence, on eliminating discriminatory legislation and practices, and on empowering girls and young women worldwide. the eu must identify and guarantee sufficient financial and human resources, and set clear targets and indicators to meet its commitments on gender equality and women's empowerment. given that the majority of the world's poor are women or those living in female-headed households, and that 62 million girls worldwide are out of school, the eu must promote change. i believe that the eu should promote the increase of women's legal rights and access to justice and therefore i support the resolution.
written. ‒ i support this resolution because gender equality is one of the key issues when it comes to the development of society and the system as a whole. today, there is inequality between women and men on basic life issues such as the right to education, equal employment, access to health care. gender equality is something that is an integral part of the legal framework. the union should be one of the main advocates of equality between women and men and should continuously strive to improve this situation. every day, all over the world, real women and girls are being hurt. domestic violence, exploitation, trafficking in women and similar phenomena indicate that the european union must not relent in its efforts to improve this situation.
‒ the european union is committed to promoting gender equality at all levels and has identified it as a prerequisite for achieving its post-2015 sustainable development goals. the gap (gender pay gap) evaluation shows that there is still a lot to be done during gap2. the new plan includes measures to address obstacles to the full implementation of the eu guidelines on violence against women and girls (vawg), to increase access to education for girls and women, and to prevent discrimination against women in the case of maternity leave. i fully support this proposal because it promotes the fundamental rights of women and girls and contributes to their protection.
written. ‒ i voted against the renewal of the eu action plan for gender equality and the empowerment of women in development for 2016-2020, as this renewal, like most reports that are supposed to promote equality between men and women, promotes gender ideology and attempts to impose reproductive rights that have nothing to do with promoting women's economic rights. in particular, while i strongly support the need to give women equal rights with men in terms of economic opportunities and participation in economic activities, i cannot accept the manipulation of some groups in the european parliament who persistently falsely classify under this segment the sexual and reproductive rights promoted by the plan. so i voted against another attempt to impose ideological values that cruelly endanger the lives of the most vulnerable groups, and that is the unborn.
written. - i support the report of my colleague, ms zaborska. the wage gap is currently slightly over 16% and in some member states it is over 20%. ms. zaborska is proposing sanctions for companies that do this and shifting the burden of proof from the injured party to the company. the report is very progressive and specific.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the european parliament's motion for a resolution on the application of directive 2006/54/ec of the european parliament and of the council implementing the principle of equal opportunities and equal treatment of men and women in matters of employment and occupation, as i believe that equal opportunities and equal treatment for all are one of the key principles of european law. economic independence is also a prerequisite for a decent life for all citizens of the european union. i am against any discrimination (based on ethnicity, religion, disability or other) as well as those based on the gender difference between men and women. progress in this area is still insufficient and a pay gap has been established across the union. i therefore believe that further efforts are needed to increase access to the labour market and career advancement for women, and consequently their representation in decision-making processes. i support this report because it is aimed at achieving real equality.
written. ‒ even nine years after the adoption of directive 2006/54/ec on the implementation of the principle of equal opportunities and equal treatment of men and women in matters of employment and occupation, the position of women on the labour market has not changed significantly. women continue to be victims of direct and indirect discrimination, which manifests itself in the form of lower employment rates, lower wages and pensions, and in the form of discrimination with regard to maternity and/or parental leave. i welcome the report's purpose, but what i object to is its inconsistency. although the report is aimed at achieving equality between women and men in terms of employment and work, as many as seven of the items speak of gender equality rather than gender equality. in addition, the report refers to the issue of official recognition of transgender people in as many as four points a question that has nothing to do with gender equality in the labour market. it is precisely because of the inconsistencies in this report and considering that there is a lot of room for improvement and progress in this respect that i abstained from voting.
written. ‒ although much has been done in the area of equality between men and women, the issue of gender inequality in the labour market remains one of the fundamental problems facing women today. in this sense, i welcome this report and the efforts to introduce stricter monitoring mechanisms and sanctions against employers who are not prepared to address this problem, as well as the fact that the report sheds light on problems that are still not sufficiently recognised such as the gender pension gap, discrimination and harassment of transgender people, etc. i welcome the more decisive introduction of measures such as gender-neutral job evaluation and classification systems, the definition of clear criteria for assessing the value of work, the involvement of the social partners and civil society in oversight mechanisms and greater efforts towards reconciling work and private life. although the gender pay gap in croatia is considerably lower than the eu average, we are still lagging behind in some areas. gender equality is a constitutional category, and anti-discrimination measures extend through several laws, including the labour code. however, there are numerous exceptions in croatian legislation that allow for the justification of direct and indirect discrimination, positive measures are often not binding on employers, and pregnant women and mothers, despite legal protection, continue to be exposed to discrimination in employment and in the workplace.
written. ‒ equal treatment of men and women in employment and occupation is a matter of justice and fairness. all women, regardless of their age, education or social status, are directly or indirectly potential victims of discrimination in the workplace. there are several main elements on which women are discriminated against, namely: wage differentials, work-family imbalances, access to justice and discrimination within the pension system. equal treatment and the principle of non-discrimination have also been an important part of eu primary legislation since the adoption of the treaty of rome in 1957. in the plenary i supported the proposal for a directive to enable the implementation of penalties for those responsible and compensation for victims of discrimination. sanctions and penalties shall encourage the avoidance of situations which may be discriminatory.
written. ‒ i would like to emphasise that i am certainly in favour of equal opportunities and equal treatment for men and women in employment and work and of equal rights for them, but i have abstained in this report because of the excessive use of the ambivalent term gender instead of the clear and legally defined term sex. the use of vague terminology in this way makes the text unclear.
written. ‒ another of the many own-initiative reports of the european parliament's femm committee whose title promises a lot, but whose content compromises the title to the point of unrecognisability. on this basis, i also consider it indicative that the rapporteur, ms zaborska, herself abstained on the final amended version of the report in the committee. as a woman with a long police career who has faced many prejudices during her professional career, i strongly support the principles of equal opportunities and equal treatment of women and men, and the principle of equal pay for equal work. the undeniable and sad fact is that the gender pay gap still exists, at an average of 16.4% for the whole of the european union. however, what i have never been able to agree with, nor will i ever be able to agree with, is the hypocritical mixing of the right to equal opportunity with the unscrupulous promotion of gender ideology. unfortunately, certain groups in the european parliament have once again succeeded in undermining a constructive debate on another very important topic by including in the report their standard demands such as mandatory women's quotas, the rights of the lgbt community, the prohibition of discrimination against persons who have changed their gender, special benefits for the underrepresented sex, pay revision for companies listed on stock exchanges of the member states of the union, the term gender instead of gender and many others.
mr. president, we need to put our hands on our hearts and simply say to ourselves that we were not prepared for this crisis, we were caught off guard by the wave of refugees. neither the big countries nor the small countries were prepared for this crisis and unfortunately we have not shown that with solutions until today. and that's where i see the head problem. i can understand that the tens of thousands, hundreds of thousands of people who have come to our borders have been a great surprise to us, but i can hardly understand that after so many months still in the council, the commission has no answers to the end how to solve this problem in the long term because this is a problem that will last for years. we just don't see a solution. and that's why i want to take this opportunity to say that many non-eu countries have done more than some eu countries. i am thinking here of the countries of the western balkans and i ask them to think carefully about how to help all of them in the future.
member of the commission. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, let me begin by thanking the rapporteur, mr pargneaux, and all the members involved in the motion for a resolution we are debating today. the paris conference is a historic milestone in the international community's efforts to combat climate change. in his state of the union address to the european parliament, president juncker stressed that the european union will not accept any agreement. as the head of the european union's negotiations in paris, my job will be to ensure that the european union leads the negotiations and is not a passive spectator. and with this new global agreement we must begin a dynamic process that will enable us to effectively combat the risks of climate change and accelerate our global transition to a low-carbon and climate-responsible society. ladies and gentlemen, a key challenge during this year has been to ensure that the conference parties present their national contributions on mitigation and adaptation. to date, 150 parties have submitted their respective contributions covering almost 90% of global emissions. the european union was one of the first to do so with an ambitious target of reducing emissions by 40%. we have set an example for our partners and others are following, but we have also carried out extensive international awareness-raising work throughout the year, encouraging third countries to commit to global climate action. in this context, we are witnessing a fundamental transition from action by a few to action by the majority. comparing the contributions submitted to date with the second commitment period of the kyoto protocol - which runs until 2020 and covers only around 12% of global emissions - progress towards the paris summit is remarkable. today we see that there is a clear global political will at the highest level. i have just returned from the forum on adaptation and mitigation commitments which we have organized with the collaboration of morocco in rabat, with the participation of more than forty countries. i am particularly pleased that mr pargneaux has taken part in this forum, which has shown the participants the importance which this parliament attaches to the paris summit. although we have seen in this forum that the contributions so far presented are not sufficient to meet the objective of limiting global warming to below two degrees celsius, the good news is that these contributions already constitute a major step forward and put the target within reach. these contributions are more than just numbers, they are real strategies developed at the highest political level, and, furthermore, when we consider that many countries are designing and implementing these climate plans for the first time, we realize the progress we are making globally on climate action. but the main question is how we ensure that we get an ambitious agreement in paris and how we define its success. in my view, the answer to these questions boils down to three essential elements. first, establish a long-term goal. secondly, to ensure that the paris agreement includes the flexibility needed to strengthen its ambition over time. the new agreement must therefore include a review mechanism to enable us to assess progress and to reinforce the emission reduction targets on a regular basis in the light of the latest scientific data available to us. and thirdly, the agreement must include provisions to ensure transparency and accountability because these rules will be the foundation of a credible international regime. with the targets set, we have a tough job ahead of us. the last technical negotiating session in bonn begins next week. at this session we shall be discussing a draft agreement which was presented by the co-chairs of the negotiations on 5 october. the good news is that the new text is shorter and easier to understand. the less positive news is that the text is unbalanced, lacks ambition and specificity in many respects - including transparency and accountability - lacks a mechanism to dynamically increase mitigation ambition over time, and some key policy issues remain open. so, it will be a crucial negotiating session. ladies and gentlemen, in order to be effective in these negotiations, the european union must remain united and act with one voice. i am therefore pleased to note that in the draft resolution, and after the committee discussions, there is a common basis between the institutions and the member states. in this respect, i consider it extremely positive that the draft resolution recognizes the need for an ambitious, universally valid and legally binding agreement. i share your conviction that the paris agreement should promote a system of evaluation of objectives based on common and transparent standards, including provisions for monitoring, reporting and verification. and i strongly support the paris agreement project being sustainable and dynamic. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy. climate finance will be a key issue on which the european union, moreover, and the member states have an excellent track record. significant resources from the multiannual financial framework will be allocated to climate change-related projects abroad. we expect the financial contributions to more than double to eur 2 billion a year. and as for progress towards the global $100 billion target, i'm pleased to note that the most recent estimates show that climate finance reached $62 billion in 2014, as indicated in the recent oecd report. ladies and gentlemen, let me end by stressing how important the support of the european parliament is to the negotiating position of the european union. the agreement, which is legally binding, must be ratified by parliament. the outcome of the negotiations will be presented to this house for consideration and it is therefore essential that members are associated and kept informed of the progress of the negotiations. in paris i will personally report to the european parliament delegation every day and instruct the commission's negotiating team to give parliament all the assistance it needs. but beyond the negotiations, the experience of the past few months shows how important it is for the european union to remain the global leader in the fight against climate change. and that is why we need credible and effective national and european climate policies. and the role of parliament in this respect has been very valuable. i would like to thank you, once again, for your support and enthusiasm in consolidating climate policy in the european union and in our global leadership on this matter.
mr vice-president, i would first like to thank mr pargneaux for his excellent report, but also, of course, commissioner cañete. i was on the foreign affairs committee to express an opinion on this, and i'm also a member of the environmental protection committee. we have committed ourselves to article 3 of the treaty on european union on solidarity and the sustainable development of the earth, and we have also committed ourselves to promoting measures to combat climate change under article 191 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union. this is the moment to correct what we did wrong in copenhagen and i simply want to believe that all that we have heard from the report today and from the commissioner's presentation will be able to be realised. so, the goals simply have to be binding. if we can do that, we've accomplished a lot. but what i want to say on behalf of the foreign affairs committee is that we need to step up the role of climate diplomacy. so we need to involve more the european external action service, but also climate diplomacy. when i say that, i mean the unified position of the countries of the european union. and just one more sentence. it would be very important, and we have written this in this opinion, that the negotiations on ttip include everything that is agreed at the paris conference because i think that without that we will not be able to negotiate ttip.
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on development.– mr president, i would like to use this opportunity to stress the strong link between cop 21 and the new sustainable development goals adopted last september in new york, with sustainable development goal 13 about taking urgent action to combat climate change. when discussing future actions aimed at keeping the rise in global average temperature below 2 degrees above pre-industrial levels, we cannot ignore the fact that the least developed countries are not able to cover the costs of necessary investments in cleaner technologies. this is why it is important to keep in mind that the international community will have to share those costs. the report is right in saying that without the contribution of developing countries, our global efforts will fail. so the fight against climate change must remain one of the top priorities, both in our environmental policy and overall development cooperation policy. por último, señor presidente, quisiera agradecerle al comisario arias la excelente cooperación con la comisión de desarrollo en todos los temas en los que tenemos que cooperar, desde el desarrollo sostenible hasta el cambio climático.
the new global international climate agreement expected in paris is crucial for the future of our planet. the european union must come to that conference with one voice and lead the way in demanding that emissions caused by global climate change be reduced. the member states and the european union must continue to set ambitious programmes and solutions to set an example for the many countries attending the paris conference. the efforts made so far and the targets set must be given new impetus to prevent radical climate change that will cause or is already causing severe consequences in particular in some areas of the planet.
written. climate change is one of the greatest challenges facing humanity today. we all feel the effects of these with the increasing frequency of droughts, floods, and other natural disasters. nearly 20 million people, according to a un report, were forced to flee their homes last year because of natural disasters around the world. the damage to the world economy from climate change is estimated at up to 300 billion euros a year. climate change is unquestionably one of the greatest threats to the future of the earth. a new global climate agreement is expected to be adopted in paris in december, which must set a long-term global climate change mitigation target in line with the goal of limiting global temperature rise to no more than 2°c. the european union has taken a leading role in the world in implementing greenhouse gas emission reductions and has directed its overall policy towards cleaner technologies, energy efficiency and renewable energy sources in order to contribute to the development of a low-carbon economy and to create new green jobs. i hope that other countries around the world will follow the eu's ambitious goals and strategies.
madam president, the guns in ukraine have been silent for five weeks, and citizens everywhere, except in the rebellious areas of the east, will be expressing their political will in ten days' time in local elections. however, it would be wrong to attribute this situation to the agreement reached on a lasting peace. peace in ukraine, like war, depends on moscow's sense of geopolitical vulnerability, and russia is currently more focused on the middle east region whose chaos it wants to exploit to compensate for the oil market damage from sanctions and costly military operations in eastern ukraine. ukraine has been given a serious task by european peace brokers in paris: reforming its electoral legislation in line with the future decentralisation of the state that the pro-russian rebels will want to accept. at the same time, it will be difficult to implement because of the resistance of political options that do not want such concessions to moscow. the good news is that we've arranged for a full season's supply of gas at an affordable price. at least one less problem for the economically and politically overburdened ukrainian people.
madam president, first of all, i congratulate our ukrainian friends on today's day of ukrainian defenders and all those who gave their lives for the freedom of ukraine. secondly, i refer to the report that was published yesterday on the very clear established fact that mh-17 was shot down by a surface-to-air missile from the occupied territories and that the investigation into the criminal responsibility of those responsible for the death of 298 people should be completed. ukraine must remain our priority, a clear political priority. the eu has also committed itself to the development of a comprehensive and effective law on the protection of personal data, including the protection of personal data of the eu institutions and bodies, and the protection of personal data of the eu institutions and bodies. this must be a clear political message from the european parliament. we're going to observe local elections, help our friends consolidate, democratize and decentralize. it's a good thing the gas deal was done. we want the free trade agreement to come into force. we also want a move that would allow the entry into force of visa liberalisation, the implementation of the agenda of the association agreement, but also its entry into force, and i call on the countries that have not ratified the agreement to do so and on our dutch colleagues to be alert to these initiatives on a referendum which i do not see as having any particular meaning and which could complicate its entry into force.
madam president, the european union is constantly trying to take the initiative away from the member states in the sphere of foreign policy, whether it be military or diplomatic. the attitude towards russia is the best indicator that the union does not have the necessary capacity. our one-sided, cheerful approach in ukraine without much concrete action has left moscow plenty of room to spread instability and its own influence in eastern europe. it's the same thing that happened in syria. european inertia and partial interests and susceptibility to outside influences have left the door wide open for putin to play the role of global hero and righteous in the fight against the islamic state. everything moscow has achieved in ukraine and syria has been made possible by western powers. let's not keep looking for the other person's fault. let's finally take a look in the mirror.
madam president, minsk ii brought peace, loose, perhaps deceptive, but it brought peace nonetheless. that is what we can ascertain and be satisfied with. he brought dialogue. he paved the way for the election. he paved the way, we hope, for reform, a better ukrainian economy and the fight against corruption. but what i have been warning about and what i have spoken about in previous speeches when it comes to ukraine is the need for ukraine to be decentralized, regionalized, to create conditions where all minorities have the right to their own language, the right to their own rights and in a territorial sense, which the high commissioner spoke about earlier in this room, and i believe that this is the way to solve this problem in eastern ukraine in the long term and permanently.
on behalf of the alde club. madam president, europe must remain a place of freedom, a continent of freedom, a continent where everyone can express their religious beliefs, where everyone, especially young people, can wear their religious symbols and not be punished for doing so. europe has won this freedom and must continue to do so. it is unacceptable to deny the holocaust, to deny what is part of our history, and it is unacceptable to glorify all those regimes that we had on european soil during the second world war, their symbols, the fascist, nazi symbols that we can unfortunately still see at various rallies, and young people are often part of these rallies. that is why i want to emphasize the importance of educating young people so that they are the future of freedom in europe, the future of tolerance in europe, and that is where media such as the internet play a special role. and certainly along with anti-semitism, we have islamophobia in the european union, we have those who are using this refugee crisis to say that there is going to be an islamization of europe, which is really scandalous because we should look first and foremost at what the pope has said in this parliament and what the pope has said and said about this refugee crisis, and i believe that in this way, through the discourse of tolerance, not hate, we can achieve what we want, more security, more stability, more happiness for the citizens living in the european union. for 25 years, i've been fighting for the rights of minorities, for the rights of languages, for the rights of religion, and i'm convinced that this fight is worth it. and that is why, commissioner, we support good examples because europe is full of good examples and we support good examples.
answer the question posed by raising the blue card. although i'm not 100% sure if the translation was accurate or if i understood the question correctly, but in any case atheists are part of our society. i'm a religious person myself, but i rarely say that because it doesn't matter. it's important that we respect each other, that we respect those who are of the jewish faith, that we respect muslims, of course we respect all those christian churches that exist in europe, there are many of them, and that we respect each other, and atheists are part of us and we are all here together, some are believers, some are atheists. in that context, i think we really need to show a maximum tolerance relationship between us.
madam president, i was raised to respect everyone, to make fun of no one, and hate speech is not in my vocabulary. but in recent days, i have been subjected to hate speech just for being a christian and just for calling for the protection of over 100 million persecuted christians. the attack on me is just one more in a statistic that last year recorded almost 500 cases of discrimination against christians and more than 200 cases of destruction of christian buildings and symbols. so i want to testify to you personally that, along with anti-semitism and islamophobia, there is also a growing phenomenon of christianophobia in europe. christians in europe are becoming the target of intolerance and discrimination for the very fact of being christians and having their own value system, patterns of behaviour and religious beliefs. stereotyping, restricting freedom of thought and speech, disregard for conscientious objections in the workplace, and discrimination in employment, the forcible removal of crosses, the vandalism of christian symbols and churches are school-based examples of christianophobia. so i call on you to condemn anti-semitism, islamophobia and christianophobia, because these are the three evils that are destroying europe today.
madam president, the gentleman has mentioned me directly and let me at least answer him for a few seconds, because he has mentioned me directly twice. and when someone mentions you directly, it's a man's right to respond. at least that is the rule, as far as i know, in this house. can i say something to mr. korwin-mike, or are you not allowing me? (the president took the floor. ) madam chairman, i understood very well what korwin-mikke was saying this afternoon, because he mentioned me twice, and in the end he said that we were all sitting here like idiots. let me say that i do not feel like an idiot here, i believe that the vast majority, however few we are, do not feel that way, because we are talking about one of the most serious issues in our european history. we're talking about the holocaust and you mention it, so please keep up the standards of this house, and if you don't, then you really don't deserve to share these rooms with us, because nobody here is stupid. you may think you're a bigot, but i don't want to offend you. therefore, allow me to ask you not to insult this house in such a way.
madam president, europe is united in its diversity. europe has 60 regional and minority languages. 10% of the population of europe speaks one of these regional or minority languages. many of these languages that we speak here are minority or regional languages in some countries. however, as many as 49 such regional or minority languages are seriously endangered. language is a human right, language is part of our identity and that is why i believe that we must protect it to the maximum and that the commission, the member states, regional and local authorities in europe must protect regional and minority languages, because they are part of our european identity, united in diversity, but in diversity that we will respect each other, and languages are precisely what we must respect to the maximum.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the european parliament's draft legislative resolution on the draft council decision establishing the date from which decision 2008/633/jha on access by certain authorities of the member states and europol to the visa information system (vis) for the purpose of searching for data for the purposes of the prevention, detection and investigation of terrorist offences and of other serious criminal offences takes effect, as it accepts the said council draft decision to strengthen the area of freedom, security and justice. i believe that it is extremely important to improve the implementation of the common visa policy for the stability of the member states and the eu, especially when it comes to serious crime. joint synergies and cooperation in this area contribute to the advancement of internal security and to the credibility of national and european institutions.
‒ council decision 2008/633 of the justice and home affairs council replaces council decision 2013/392/eu1 which was annulled by the judgment of the court of justice of the european union. the effects of decision 2013/392 will last until its replacement enters into force. the purpose of the decision is the prevention, detection and investigation of terrorist offences and other serious criminal offences. the commission notes that the commission has not provided any information on the number of cases of infringement of the anti-dumping duty in respect of the product concerned. as this relates to the area of the schengen acquis, iceland, norway, switzerland and liechtenstein will also participate in the application. the commission shall be assisted by the standing committee on plants, animals, food and feed. i supported the report by mr timothy kirkhopp because it is necessary to elaborate all the legal issues in detail in order to achieve the greatest possible legal certainty, especially when it comes to such sensitive matters as terrorism and other serious crimes.
written. ‒ this resolution seeks to fix the date of entry into force of decision 2008/633/jha. the decision refers to the possibility for member states to consult the visa information system (vis) for the purposes of preventing, detecting and investigating terrorist or other criminal offences. this decision would replace decision 2013/392/eu. the regulation represents a positive step towards promoting joint work between member states and their institutions. i think that this has made progress in the fight against terrorism and crime by allowing all member states to have access to the vis. access to the vis by member states also gives them access to a variety of data useful in the fight against terrorism and crime. access to certain data allows member states to better control the entry and exit of persons suspected of having links to terrorism or other criminal offences. this is to enable the prevention, detection, investigation and detection of people associated with terrorist and other criminal acts. it is also significant that member states have been able to participate jointly in the prevention of terrorism and crime. i also consider it significant that this provision addresses the shortcomings of the previous provision, such as the improvement of the common visa policy.
written. ‒ in line with the opinion of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs, i consider it important to set the date of entry into force of decision 2008/633/jha without delay in order to ensure continuity of access to the vis by member states' authorities and europol for the purposes of preventing, detecting and investigating terrorist offences and other serious criminal offences. since council decision 2013/392/eu has been repealed by the court of justice of the eu, it is effective until the entry into force of a new decision replacing it, which should be adopted as soon as possible, all the necessary conditions now being fulfilled for its implementation. access by member states and europol to the visa information system shall not be suspended or delayed for any period, in particular in view of the security and terrorist threats and dangers facing the european union. the procedure for fixing that date should therefore be continued, avoiding unnecessary loss of time.
written. i support the report by my colleague timothy kirkhope on the draft council decision establishing the date from which decision 2008/633/jha on access by certain authorities of the member states and europol to the visa information system (vis) for the purpose of consulting data for the purposes of the prevention, detection and investigation of terrorist offences and of other serious criminal offences takes effect. the request concerns the change of the date from which decision 2008/633/jha enters into force, taking into account that all the necessary conditions are met. the proposed decision should replace council decision 2013/392/eu which was annulled by a judgment of the european court of justice. in that judgment, it was decided that decision 2013/392/eu should be implemented until the new one enters into force.
written. ‒ this explanation of the vote arises as a criticism of the existing system of evaluating the work of meps in the european parliament solely on the basis of the statistical number of parliamentary activities promoted in croatia, which does not actually reflect the actual quality and quantity of work, efficiency and above all the success of the representative action.
written. ‒ i support this report because it should take into account council decision 2008/633/jha on access by certain member states' authorities and europol to the visa information system for the purpose of searching for data for the purposes of preventing, detecting and investigating terrorist offences. the resolution on the european agenda on security and the report of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs should certainly be taken into account.
written. ‒ the objective of the report is to establish the date of application of decision 2008/633/jha on access to consultation for the visa information system (vis) by the designated authorities of the member states and by europol for the purposes of the prevention, detection and investigation of terrorist offences and of other serious criminal offences. this highly technical report was unanimously supported by all groups, no amendments were tabled and the committee used a rapid procedure to meet the council's requirements and to react as quickly as possible. i fully support the proposal to set the date of entry into force of decision 2008/633/jha, given that the main objective of the report is to ensure the continued right of access to consultation in the vis for the purposes of the prevention, detection and investigation of terrorist offences and of other serious criminal offences.
written. ‒ i voted in favour because the report supports the amended council decision on access by certain member states' authorities and europol to the visa information system (vis) for the purpose of searching for data for the purposes of preventing, detecting and investigating terrorist offences and other serious criminal offences, as it replaces the original 2013 decision which was annulled by the european court of justice. the commission notes that the council did not include the european parliament in the adoption of the original decision, which was thus seriously prejudiced. however, i consider that the expected change in the procedure for adopting this decision alone is particularly important, as is the fact that the new decision, like the original, clearly defines the conditions for access to vis data by certain member states' authorities and europol, as well as the obligation to protect personal data and to guarantee data security. i believe that this ensures a purposeful and effective exchange of information between the member states and europol in the fight against cross-border crime.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the european parliament's motion for a resolution on the council position on draft amending budget no 6/2015 of the european union for the financial year 2015, own resources, mutual funds of the union for external action, office of the body of european regulators for electronic communications, as that amendment creates two budget lines to support the mutual funds concerning development and cooperation policy and enlargement policy. the commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down the rules for the implementation of this regulation. the commission shall be assisted by the european parliament and the council.
written. ‒ the report covers the creation of two new budgetary expenditure items relating to support for the european commission's foundations in the fields of development and cooperation policy and enlargement policy. the berec office should be able to provide the necessary support to the berec office in the form of a delegated act. the commission shall submit a report to the european parliament and to the council on the implementation of this decision. the commission shall be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 264 concerning the establishment of the european data protection board. i supported the report by mrs eider gardiazábal rubial because of the importance of a well-designed budget that allows eu policy to be put into practice.
written. ‒ i supported the amendment of draft amending budget no 6/2015: own resources, mutual funds of the union for external action, office of the body of european regulators for electronic communications which provides for the creation of two new budget lines, the amendment of the establishment plan of berec offices and the revision of the traditional own resources forecast. i believe that this draft should be amended in view of the new obstacles and challenges facing the european union in order to be able to allocate the resources received to the budget of the european union in a more qualitative, equitable and fair manner. the member states' own resources are one of the most important items used to fill the revenue side of the budget and should be defined correctly and fairly in order to ensure that the administrative and institutional part of the european union can function in the best possible way and in a way that is acceptable to citizens. the commission should also be able to use the appropriations entered in the budget to finance the expenditure of the european parliament and the council, in particular the expenditure relating to the european parliament's budget for the financial year.
written. ‒ the draft proposal concerns a revision of the forecast of traditional own resources and of the vat and gni contributions, which opens the possibility of reducing the national contributions to the gni budget by eur 2,26 billion compared to the initial 2015 budget, due to higher than expected revenues from traditional own resources and to the surplus contribution from 2014. the draft revenue side therefore regulates the adjustment in the distribution of the member states' contributions, which has been agreed in advance between member states and is, according to the statistical indicators, adequate, without changing the expenditure side of the 2015 budget and without imposing an additional burden on member states. the draft also includes the creation of two new budget lines for expenditure supporting the mutual funds under the european commission's competence in the fields of development and cooperation policy and enlargement policy. it is also intended to regulate the structure of the posts of the office of the body of european regulators for electronic communications without changing its budget or the total number of posts in it. in view of the above, the draft amending budget seeks to regulate the revenue side of the budget in a clearer and more transparent manner, without any deductions or additional obligations, thus alleviating the burden on many member states on the basis of vat, gni and traditional own resources, which is why i supported it.
written. i agree with the draft report by mrs eider gardiazabal rubial on the council position on draft amending budget no 6/2015 of the european union for the financial year 2015: own resources, mutual funds of the union for external action, office of the body of european regulators for electronic communications. the draft amending budget concerns the revision of the estimates of traditional own resources and contributions based on vat and gni, the creation of two new budget lines for expenditure supported by the mutual funds managed by the commission in the field of development and cooperation policy and the amendment of the establishment plan of the office of the body of european regulators for electronic communications. the commission shall be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 290 concerning the establishment of a european data protection supervisor. the result will be a change in the distribution of own resources contributions to the budget of the european union among the member states. the technical adjustment of the revenue side of the budget shall be based on the latest statistical data and shall be in accordance with the agreed allocation among member states.
written. ‒ this explanation of the vote arises as a criticism of the existing system of evaluating the work of meps in the european parliament solely on the basis of the statistical number of parliamentary activities promoted in croatia, which does not actually reflect the actual quality and quantity of work, efficiency and above all the success of the representative action.
written. ‒ i support this report as draft amending budget no 6/2015 concerns the revision of the estimates of traditional own resources and contributions based on vat and gni and the budgeting of the corresponding corrections for the united kingdom and their financing. furthermore, the draft amending budget includes the creation of two new budget lines for expenditure supporting mutual funds managed by the european commission covering the areas of development and cooperation policy and enlargement policy. the commission shall be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 290 concerning the establishment of the european data protection board. the president of parliament should therefore, in accordance with the procedure, declare the amending budget no 6/2015 adopted and forward this resolution to the council, the commission, the court of auditors and the national parliaments.
written. ‒ draft amending budget 06/2015 revises the traditional own resources (i.e. customs duties and sugar levies) forecasts, the vat and gni bases and the budget planning of the united kingdom's material corrections. the commission shall be assisted by the european parliament and the council, acting by a qualified majority on a proposal from the commission, and shall report to the european parliament and the council on the progress of the work of the committee. i fully support this draft because it revises the current situation and with the changes envisaged it improves the current situation and promises a more efficient allocation of the budget.
written. ‒ i supported the amendment to the budget relating to the area of own resources, the mutual funds of the union for external action and the office of the european regulators for electronic communications, as i believe that these amendments will bring the greatest benefits to the member states. the commission should be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 290 tfeu concerning the establishment of a european data protection supervisor, in order to ensure that the european data protection supervisor is able to carry out his or her duties and to ensure that the european data protection supervisor is able to exercise his or her functions in accordance with the provisions of this regulation. as these changes will have a positive impact on reducing the financial burden on member states without affecting expenditure, i voted in favour of adopting this report.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution of the european parliament on the proposal for a decision of the parliament and of the council on the mobilisation of the flexibility instrument for urgent budgetary measures under the european migration programme, in accordance with point 12 of the interinstitutional agreement on budgetary discipline, on cooperation in budgetary matters and on sound financial management, as it allows the financing of a highly important and urgent political priority of the european union. the mobilisation of eur 66,1 million will certainly help to alleviate the refugee and migration crisis, although of course the funds mentioned are not sufficient. however, i consider that the crisis in question has once again demonstrated the crucial importance of ensuring the flexibility of the union budget in order to be able to counter such crises and circumstances that directly affect its stability and functioning, and i therefore support this proposal.
written. council regulation (eu) no 1311/2013 of 2 december 2013 establishes the multiannual financial framework and proposes the mobilisation of the flexibility instruments. the mobilisation concerns an amount of eur 66,1 million for the financing of measures in the field of migration. the commission notes that the aid is granted to the following undertakings: i support this report by eider gardiazábal rubial because croatia is directly faced with the arrival of immigrants, of whom some 160,000 have entered the country since the beginning of the crisis in mid-september, and it is not certain how long the crisis could last. the union budget should therefore be made more flexible in order to respond in a timely manner to the security challenges facing the whole of the european union since april 2015, when the first large wave of refugees entered europe.
written. ‒ i supported the mobilisation of the flexibility instrument for urgent budgetary measures under the european migration programme to the tune of eur 66.1 million. i believe that this is necessary precisely because of the urgency of the refugee crisis and in order to deal with it. the amount of assigned revenue in accordance with article 21 (3) of the financial regulation is estimated at eur 100000. europe is hit by the current migration crisis and unless it takes active measures to mitigate it, the consequences will be far-reaching.
written. ‒ i welcome the decision to allow the mobilisation of the flexibility instrument, i.e. the provision of commitment appropriations under title 3 (security and citizenship) of eur 66,1 million, given that the 2015 ceiling did not provide sufficient financial resources to finance important eu political priorities, in particular in terms of funding measures to deal with the refugee and migration crisis. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's macro-financial assistance to the countries of central and eastern europe, including the countries of central and eastern europe, and the countries of the former soviet union, in order to ensure that the union's macro-financial assistance is consistent with the union's macro-financial assistance. croatia has so far spent 22 million kuna on the care and transport of refugees, for which it has been granted aid from european funds in the amount of five million euros. the commission has also provided the necessary information to the member states to enable them to assess the impact of the measures taken by croatia on the situation of refugees in the union. the eu has taken this decision to demonstrate its willingness and determination to adapt to changing circumstances and to provide much-needed assistance to those most affected by the refugee crisis, in a context of inequality among countries bearing the burden of the crisis.
the commission has proposed to mobilise the flexibility instrument to supplement the general budget of the union by eur 66,1 million in commitment appropriations to finance the measures to deal with the refugee and migration crisis for the financial year 2015. the mobilisation appears necessary after considering all possibilities for reallocating the commitment appropriations. the proposed allocation of the corresponding payment appropriations of eur 52,9 million for 2016 and eur 13,2 million for 2017 further confirms the crucial need to increase the flexibility of the union budget by mobilising this instrument. after examining all possibilities for reallocating the appropriations under the ceiling, it appeared necessary to mobilise the flexibility instrument to supplement the financing in the general budget of the union. i therefore support the report of the rapporteur, ms eider gardiazabal rubial.
written. ‒ i support this report in view of the urgency of the procedure under the european migration programme. the flexibility instrument should be mobilised to provide additional financing to the general budget of the union for the financial year 2015 of an amount of eur 66,1 million to finance measures in the area of migration. after considering all possible options concerning the reallocation of funds, in this situation, the mobilisation of the flexibility instrument of funds is deemed necessary. the financing of measures to manage the refugee crisis should be regulated and the budget should address the humanitarian issue of refugees.
written. ‒ in the light of recent developments in the field of migration, the european commission has proposed to amend the draft budget 07/2015 in order to increase the amount of commitment appropriations by reallocating eur 70,6 million within the budget itself. this allocation provides for eur 100 million for the asylum, migration and integration fund (amif) and the internal security fund (isf). a further eur 1,3 million should go to finance more posts in the frontex (+60 posts), easo (+30) and europol (+30) posts. finally, eur 300 million is earmarked for additional funding of the european neighbourhood instrument. in view of the urgency of the migration situation, i fully support this report in the hope that it will contribute to a better resolution of the current migration crisis.
written. ‒ on 30 september, the commission published two proposals relating to the continued financing of measures to deal with the migration crisis one proposal concerns the draft amending budget 7/2015, and the other concerns the mobilisation of the flexibility instrument. the commission shall be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 290 concerning the establishment of a european union agency for asylum, based on the european asylum support office, in order to supplement this regulation by establishing a european agency for asylum, based on the european asylum support office, and by establishing a european agency for migration and integration. the commission has also been asked to provide information on the implementation of the european neighbourhood policy (enp) and the european neighbourhood policy (enp) in the context of the european neighbourhood policy (enp) and the european neighbourhood policy (enp). that's why i voted yes.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the council position on draft amending budget no 7/2015 of the european union for the financial year 2015, managing the refugee crisis: urgent operational, budgetary and legal measures of the european migration programme, as, in view of the daily migration situation, there was a need to increase the emergency financial assistance under the asylum, migration and integration fund (amif), the internal security fund and the european neighbourhood instrument. the commission shall be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 290 concerning the establishment of a european data protection supervisor. i consider it necessary for the commission to present a long-term financial plan to respond to the migration and refugee crisis. the european union must be able to respond promptly and effectively to such crises and provide an effective response in the form of a real and concrete solution to this situation. i therefore support this draft budget amendment because i believe that the current situation is really alarming and that there is an urgent need to implement financial and other measures.
written. ‒ in september 2015, the commission presented a communication on managing the refugee crisis, specifically on immediate operational, budgetary and legal measures. the commission shall be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 290 concerning the establishment of the european data protection supervisor. the purpose of the draft amending budget (dab) is to introduce the necessary change for the immediate measures for the remaining months of 2015. the commission shall be assisted by the european parliament and the council, acting by a qualified majority on a proposal from the commission, and shall be assisted by the european parliament and the council. then, an increase in humanitarian aid funds by redistribution of €55.7 million. the eu agencies dealing with migration need to strengthen their capacities, as they are now required to be far more active on the ground than originally planned. the commission therefore proposes to further increase human resources in the three key eu agencies with a combined increase of 120 additional posts. i supported the report by eider gardizábal rubial on the need to address the refugee crisis by adopting concrete financial plans to achieve stability, both in the member states and in croatia.
written. ‒ the urgent need to help refugees due to the years-long conflict in syria and to care for people in distress and to help at the very moment when this help is most needed is our obligation. i therefore welcome the increase in the emergency financial assistance of eur 100 million to the asylum, migration and integration fund and the internal security fund. conscious of the experience of the exile crisis that croatia encountered during the homeland war and the refugee crisis that croatia is facing today on a daily basis, i also consider it necessary to increase the funds for humanitarian aid to refugees in the amount of eur 55.7 million. the routes by which refugees arrive in europe also need to be addressed, and i therefore welcome the increase in the number of posts for frontex, easo and europol and the related increase in the salary costs of these three agencies of eur 1.3 million. at the end of the day, we have to understand that this is all just firefighting. it should be at the source of the problem and in the immediate neighborhood. i welcome the additional funding of the european neighbourhood instrument of eur 300 million to bring the resources of the eu 'madad' fund, established to respond to the syrian crisis, to at least eur 500 million. but money will not solve the problem because the problem needs to be tackled at its source and the eu needs to play a more active role in this.
written. ‒ i welcome the budgetary amendments which seek to strengthen the eu's financial resources and capacity to deal with the refugee and migration crisis, in particular the increase in assistance under the asylum, migration and integration fund and the internal security fund, as well as the proposal to recruit new staff to frontex. it also commends and supports the use of the flexibility provisions. two basic prerequisites for successful eu action in the refugee crisis are: combining humanitarian and preventive measures with a much more complex approach to tackling the root causes of the crisis itself, and providing assistance and stabilisation to transit and countries of origin. croatia can serve as an example of good practice in dealing with the refugee crisis by acting humanely and in solidarity, even as it faces the militarization of its border and the barbed wire in its immediate neighbourhood. however, croatia cannot cope with this problem alone until a political decision is taken by all member states and as long as only five eu member states accept about 70% of refugees, as long as the principle of shifting blame and burden to others is not replaced by the principle of solidarity and support. in this context, i welcome the efforts to present a longer-term and more generous financial plan to assist countries of origin and transit so that closing borders, ignoring problems and repressive actions cannot be justified by a lack of resources.
written. draft amending budget no 7/2015 seeks to strengthen the union's resources to address the current refugee and migration crisis, thus addressing the current under-allocation in titles 3 and 4. this draft provides for an increase in the emergency financial assistance under the asylum, migration and integration fund (amif) and the internal security fund totalling eur 100 million of committed appropriations, while maintaining the necessary resources and other programmes financed by the asylum, migration and integration fund. the commission shall be assisted by the european parliament and the council, acting by a qualified majority on a proposal from the commission, and shall report to the european parliament and the council on the progress made in implementing this decision. the draft also provides for additional financing of the european neighbourhood instrument totalling eur 300 million and increases the appropriation for humanitarian aid payments by eur 55,7 million. the union's contribution to the union's macro-financial assistance should be limited to the amount of eur 500000000 in commitment appropriations and eur 500000000 in payment appropriations. in view of the above, i support the report of the rapporteur, mrs eider gardiazabal rubial.
written. ‒ i support this report because the budget should respond to the humanitarian situation with migrants and refugees. this item is intended to record revenue from the repayment of commitments remaining to be settled from previous years. the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2015 uses the flexibility instrument to increase the commitment appropriations by eur 66,1 million over the expenditure ceiling of the security and citizenship heading. this appropriation is intended to cover the financing of measures to manage the refugee crisis. the european union agencies dealing with migration issues need to strengthen their capacity, given that they are required to do much more than originally planned.
the amendment to draft budget 7/2015 aims to maximise the mobilisation of available european union funds to deal with the current refugee and migrant crisis and provides for additional financial resources for, inter alia, the asylum, migration and integration fund (amif), the internal security fund (isf), as well as for increasing the number of posts in the establishment plan for frontex (+60 posts), easo (+30) and europol (+30) and finally for the european neighbourhood instrument. the significant increase in the number of migrants and refugees was not foreseen when the multiannual financial framework 2014-2020 was adopted and cannot be considered as a short-term phenomenon. it is therefore necessary to revise the existing financial framework and to find longer-term solutions to be taken into account during the forthcoming annual budgetary procedures. i fully support this report as it aims to deal with the current migrant and refugee crisis and to provide a better approach to tackling it.
written. ‒ amending budget 7 contains various budgetary measures to deal with the 2015 migrant crisis. the commission proposal for 2015 amounts to eur 801,3 million, of which eur 100 million is for the asylum, migration and integration fund and the internal security fund; eur 300 million is for the european neighbourhood policy; eur 200 million for the fund in syria; eur 200 million for the unhcr; and eur 1,3 million for an additional 120 staff in the agencies dealing with migration issues, primarily frontex, easo and europol. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the eu aid volunteers initiative, in particular through the implementation of the eu aid volunteers initiative, and will continue to monitor the implementation of the eu aid volunteers initiative. however, given the gravity of the crisis facing europe and the pressure to use these funds as soon as possible, i still consider it justified and will support the proposal.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution of the european parliament requesting the waiver of the immunity of mr beli kovacs, on the grounds of his alleged suspicion of having committed an offence of espionage against the institutions of the european union. in addition, there is no reasonable doubt that the request is made with the intention of causing political injury. i therefore consider it necessary to conduct an investigation to establish whether the suspicions are well founded and whether the crime has actually been committed and, accordingly, to proceed with any possible legal process.
written. ‒ béla kovács is an independent hungarian member of the european parliament and a member of the committee on industry, research and energy and of the delegation for relations with japan and the delegation to the euronest parliamentary assembly. the hungarian prosecutor general requested the waiver of the immunity of the representative in order to be able to conduct an investigation against him and decide whether to bring charges against him for the criminal offence of espionage against the institutions of the european union. i supported the report on the waiver of the immunity of member béli kovács because there is no doubt that the request was made with the intention of causing political damage to the member.
written. ‒ i support the recommendation of mr zwiefke that, after a long debate, it be decided to waive the immunity of mr kovaczu, given that there is no reason to assume, or sufficiently serious and well-founded suspicion, that the request for waiver of immunity has been made in connection with proceedings brought with the intention of causing political damage to the member concerned (fumus persecutionis). in that case, i consider it most appropriate that the representative, in full cooperation with the competent judicial authorities, participate in the continuation of the case without implications for its final outcome.
the hungarian prosecutor general has requested the waiver of the immunity of mr béli kovács in order to allow the investigation to proceed smoothly on the basis of a well-founded suspicion and to determine whether he will be charged with the criminal offence of espionage against the institutions of the european union pursuant to article 261/a of act c of 2012 on the hungarian criminal code. the commission shall be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 261 concerning the establishment of a european union agency for fundamental rights. the investigation will be conducted by the central prosecutor's office for investigations and constitutional tasks will be carried out independently of external organisations and in accordance with the presumption of innocence. in view of the above and the fact that there is no reasonable doubt that the request for waiver of immunity was made with the intention of causing political damage to the member (fumus persecutionis), i support the report by my colleague mr tadeusz zwiefke.
written. ‒ this explanation of the vote arises as a criticism of the existing system of evaluating the work of meps in the european parliament solely on the basis of the statistical number of parliamentary activities promoted in croatia, which does not actually reflect the actual quality and quantity of work, efficiency and above all the success of the representative action.
written. ‒ i supported this report because the hungarian prosecutor general requested the waiver of immunity in order to allow the investigation against the representative of mr bela kovacs to be carried out without hindrance on suspicion of the commission of a criminal offence of espionage against the institutions of the european union pursuant to article 261/a of act c of 2012 on the hungarian criminal code. whereas this request is in accordance with the case law of the supreme court of hungary which ruled in case bf.i.2782/2002 that parliamentary immunity is limited to criminal proceedings and does not extend to measures not regulated by the code of criminal procedure whose purpose is to prevent or detect or bring to light a criminal offence; in this case too, there is no presumption, i.e. no reasonable suspicion, that the request is made in relation to proceedings initiated with the intention of causing political damage to the member.
written. i supported the waiver of the immunity of the hungarian mp béli kovács in order to allow an investigation into the possible commission of a criminal offence of espionage against the institutions of the european union. he was also a member of the 'committee of the regions' of the 'parliament of the people's republic of china' and the 'parliament of the people's republic of china' (parliament of the people's republic of china). since the hearing in the committee on legal affairs and the exchange of views with the hungarian prosecutor general established that the investigation was not politically motivated, that is to say, had no direct or obvious connection with his performance of his duties as a member of the european parliament, i voted to waive the immunity.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the motion for a european parliament decision on the proposal for the appointment of the deputy director-general of the european fund for strategic investments because i consider that ms iliyana tsanova has the necessary knowledge and skills to perform the duties of deputy director-general. its experience in managing european funds can certainly contribute to the consistent and efficient performance of the function in question. also, her international experience further strengthens her choice, which i therefore support.
‒ the european commission has created the european fund for strategic investments (efsi) to mobilise funds, in cooperation with the european investment bank (eib), to invest in high-risk projects in the fields of research, innovation, energy, transport and social infrastructure, education and science. the deputy director-general is to be appointed by the eib, subject to the approval of the european parliament. the management board of the fund has submitted to parliament a proposal to appoint mr iliyan tsanov as deputy director-general. i have supported the appointment of ilyana tsanova as deputy managing director of the european fund for strategic investments.
written. ‒ the current state of the eu economy and the fall in investment compared to 2007 of around 15%, as well as the slow recovery due to the lack of investment momentum, are having a negative impact on growth potential, productivity, employment and job creation. the european fund for strategic investments (efsi) is a key lever of the juncker plan for investment, but it also calls on the european commission and parliament to kick-start and further strengthen the european economy. the appointment of the fund's heads of staff to manage the eur 330 to 410 billion is a very important decision. i welcome and support the decision of the european parliament to approve the appointment of the deputy director of the efsu. i wish mrs. iliana canova every success in her work, to be of assistance to the director in the performance of his responsible function. i'm especially pleased that a woman from eastern europe comes to this position with a good education background in a prosperous western european and american economy. i hope that her experience in the european bank for reconstruction and development and in infrastructure development projects in the western balkans will contribute to understanding the real problems facing eastern europe and that it is her experience that will help to better channel the fund's resources to the best projects in that part of europe.
written. ‒ given that the committee on budgets and the committee on economic and monetary affairs held a hearing on 13 october 2015 with ms iliyana tsanova, the proposed candidate for the post of deputy director-general of the esrb, at which she gave an introductory speech and then answered questions from the members of the committee and at which ms tsanova received the support of the committee responsible, i support her appointment to this extremely important function and wish her success in her future work to justify the support given.
written. it is provided that the director-general and the deputy director-general of the efsi shall be appointed by the eib, after obtaining the consent of the european parliament and following an open and transparent selection procedure in accordance with eib procedures. on 13 october 2015, the committee on budgets and the committee on economic and monetary affairs held a hearing with iliyana tsanova, the proposed candidate for the post of deputy director-general of the esc, at which she made an opening statement and then answered questions from members of the committee. i consider that the proposed candidate, iliyana tsanova, has the expertise, experience and excellent knowledge of the esc and therefore support the report of my colleagues jean arthuis and robert gualtieri on the proposal for the appointment of a deputy director-general of the european fund for strategic investments.
written. ‒ this explanation of the vote arises as a criticism of the existing system of evaluating the work of meps in the european parliament solely on the basis of the statistical number of parliamentary activities promoted in croatia, which does not actually reflect the actual quality and quantity of work, efficiency and above all the success of the representative action.
written. ‒ i support the decision to appoint iliyana tsanova, the proposed candidate for the post of deputy director-general of the esc, as her qualifications make her a suitable candidate for the post of deputy director-general of the european fund for strategic investments.
the eib shall be responsible for the implementation of the budget of the european union for the financial year 2014-2020 and for the implementation of the budget of the european union for the financial year 2015-2020. on 2 october 2015, the management board of the european fund for strategic investments adopted a proposal for the appointment of the director-general and deputy director-general of the efsi and forwarded it to the european parliament. on 13 october 2015, the committee on budgets and the committee on economic and monetary affairs held a hearing with iliyana tsanova, the proposed candidate for the post of deputy managing director of the european fund for strategic investments, at which she gave an introductory speech and then answered questions from the members of the committee. on the basis of the above, the european parliament approves the appointment of ms iliyana tsanova as deputy director-general of the efsu and instructs its president to forward this decision to the council, the commission, the european investment bank and the governments of the member states. following the approval of the european parliament and following an open and transparent selection procedure in accordance with eib procedures, which the european parliament is informed of in a timely manner and at all stages of the procedure, i fully support the proposal to appoint mr iliyan tsanov as deputy managing director of the european fund for strategic investments.
written. i supported the proposal of the management board of the european fund for strategic investments (efsi) to nominate iliyana tsanova for the position of deputy director-general of the efsi. the candidate was appointed deputy director-general of the efsf by the committee on budgets and the committee on economic and monetary policy, following a hearing with the latter. i consider her extensive experience in structuring, negotiating and implementing investments and in co-financing european union projects to be relevant to this task. moreover, i believe that the cooperation it has established with governments and international financial institutions can help to reverse the sharp drop in investment across europe caused by the economic crisis and, accordingly, to start a stable economic recovery.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the motion for a european parliament decision on the proposal for the appointment of the director-general of the european fund for strategic investments because i consider that the competences and the readiness of mr wilhelm molterer are adequate for the post in question. his previous experience and engagements indicate that mr molterer is professionally prepared to assume the role of ceo and will do so with responsibility and diligence. the eesc has a very important role to play in the coming period and, knowing mr molterer personally, who also has an affinity for south-east europe, i am confident that he will meet our expectations and also take account of the needs of this part of europe. therefore, i support the appointment of mr. molterer.
‒ the european commission has created the european fund for strategic investments (efsi) to mobilise funds, in cooperation with the european investment bank (eib), to invest in high-risk projects in the fields of research, innovation, energy, transport and social infrastructure, education and science. the director-general is to be appointed by the eib, subject to the approval of the european parliament. the management board of the fund has proposed to parliament that wilhelma molterera be appointed as chief executive officer. i supported the appointment of wilhelm molterer as managing director of the european fund for strategic investments.
written. ‒ the current state of the eu economy and the fall in investment compared to 2007 of around 15%, as well as the slow recovery due to the lack of investment momentum, are having a negative impact on growth potential, productivity, employment and job creation. the european fund for strategic investments (efsi) is a key lever of the juncker plan for investment, but it also calls on the european commission and parliament to kick-start and further strengthen the european economy. the appointment of the heads of the fund, which will manage €8 billion of the eu budget as a down payment for further investment and which can, according to the european commission's estimates, provide an additional €330 to €410 billion and create between 1 and 1.3 million new jobs, is a very important decision. i welcome and support this decision by the european parliament to approve the appointment of the director of the efsu. i call on mr molterer to act responsibly in his crucial role in the european economy at this time. as chair of the investment committee, he was asked, together with his colleagues, to select the best projects and to ensure that taxpayers' money in the union is invested in those projects that will be sustainable and that will contribute most to the recovery of the economy.
written. ‒ having regard to the proposal for the appointment of the director-general and deputy director-general of the efsf adopted by the esc management board on 2 october 2015 and forwarded to the european parliament, and to the hearing held on 13 october 2015 by the committee on budgets and the committee on economic and monetary policy of the proposed candidate for the post of director-general of the efsf, mr wilhelm molterer, where he made an introductory speech and then answered questions from the members of the committee, i support this proposal for the appointment of mr molterer and wish him success in this extremely important function.
written. the director-general and the deputy director-general of the efsi shall be appointed by the eib, after approval by the european parliament and following an open and transparent selection procedure in accordance with eib procedures, and shall be informed by the european parliament in a timely manner at all stages of the procedure. on 13 october 2015, the committee on budgets and the committee on economic and monetary affairs held a hearing with mr wilhelm molterer, the proposed candidate for the post of director-general of the esrb, at which he made an introductory speech and then answered questions from members of the committee. as i consider that the proposed candidate has demonstrated expertise, a great deal of experience and an excellent knowledge of the esc, i support the report by my colleagues jean arthuis and robert gualtieri on the proposal for the appointment of a director-general of the european fund for strategic investments.
written. ‒ this explanation of the vote arises as a criticism of the existing system of evaluating the work of meps in the european parliament solely on the basis of the statistical number of parliamentary activities promoted in croatia, which does not actually reflect the actual quality and quantity of work, efficiency and above all the success of the representative action.
written. ‒ i support the decision to appoint wilhelm molterer as managing director of the european fund for strategic investments, as i consider him to be a person who meets the criteria and is qualified for this position.
written. ‒ in accordance with article 7 (6) of regulation (eu) 2015/1017, the managing director and the deputy managing director of the european fund for strategic investments have been appointed by the eib with the consent of the european parliament. on 2 october 2015, the management board of the european fund for strategic investments adopted the proposal for the appointment of the managing director and deputy managing director of the european fund for strategic investments and forwarded it to the european parliament. on 13 october 2015, the committee on budgets and the committee on economic and monetary affairs held a hearing with mr wilhelm molterer, the proposed candidate for the post of chief executive of the european fund for strategic investments, during which he presented an initial report and answered questions from the members of the committee. following an open and transparent selection process in accordance with eib procedures, during which the european parliament must be informed in a timely manner at all stages, i fully supported the proposal to appoint wilhelm molterer as managing director of the european fund for strategic investments.
written. i have supported the candidacy of wilhelm molterer for the position of managing director of the european fund for strategic investments as i consider that the candidate possesses the qualifications and abilities required for the position. the commission notes that the commission has not provided any evidence that the aid granted to the beneficiary was compatible with the internal market. given that the main function of the european fund for strategic investments is precisely to assume certain risks associated with the activities carried out by the european investment bank and the european investment fund, i consider that the management board made a logical decision in selecting molterer as a candidate for this function, since he was a vice-president of the european investment bank and has direct knowledge of this subject.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the road to a new international climate agreement in paris because global climate change is a burning issue that concerns all of humanity and requires the urgent involvement of all parties at international level. the eu, all member states, civil society, institutions, the private sector, ngos and local communities need to work together to meet the greenhouse gas emission reduction targets in key sectors such as energy, technology, transport, etc. in addition to emissions, this international agreement sets many other ambitious targets, and the means of implementation will therefore play a key role in achieving them. i therefore support this report which calls on the member states and the eu to prepare the most efficient and high-quality financial package for the period before and after 2020.
written. ‒ climate change has a major impact on sustainable growth and development, the economy and the health of citizens, and we need to discuss it constantly at international level. the warming of the climate system is undeniable, and the main cause is human activity. while the eu reduced its emissions by 19% between 1990 and 2013, global emissions increased by more than 50%. climate change could be the main driver of population displacement. the european parliament must champion ambitious but realistic targets: reducing greenhouse gas emissions by 50% compared to 1990 levels by 2030. the paris conference must find and agree on solutions that will mark the beginning of a global average temperature reduction below 2 degrees celsius. between now and 2020, 100 billion us dollars will be transferred to developing countries to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. i supported the report by mr gilles pargneaux because of the need to act against negative climate change. the measures provided for in this decision are in accordance with the opinion of the committee established by article 15 (1) of regulation (eu) no 1303/2013,
written. ‒ europe needs an ambitious plan that will also contribute to an ambitious global agreement. the european parliament's position can be seen as just as ambitious. we may not yet have realized the importance of the paris climate conference. the failure of this conference could lead to the breakdown of global climate policy and prevent the achievement of its main objective to limit the increase in global average temperature by the end of the century to 2°c compared to the pre-industrial period. today we know that we are not on the right track and that additional efforts are needed in the foreseeable future. i want europe to remain a leader in this fight against climate change and that is why i supported this resolution. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's policy on climate change and its impact on the environment. i hope that member states will commit themselves to implementing european climate and energy policies that contribute to this objective.
written. - i support this with the right ambitious report of my colleague pargneaux. climate change is one of the most serious environmental and economic challenges of our time. i support this report because it calls for an urgent and responsible global response based on the solidarity of the international community. the paris conference must be a meeting where real decisions are made to make sure that the world gets back on track to meet the goal of keeping the global average temperature rise below 2°c. i am pleased that the european parliament will also be represented at this very important conference by a delegation of fellow members.
written. ‒ i support this report and think it is important to note that climate change may lead to major disruptions in resources such as food, water and grazing land in the not too distant future and that these may become the main driver of population displacement. efforts to mitigate global warming should not be seen as an obstacle to economic growth but should be seen as a driver for new and sustainable economic growth and employment.
written. ‒ the emission gap continues between the current global greenhouse gas emissions levels and the levels needed to achieve the headline target of limiting global warming to 2°c above pre-industrial levels. the implementation of national emission reduction pledges is extremely slow, making it unlikely that the gap will be closed and the main objective achieved. the biggest unresolved issues in international climate negotiations are related to the divide between rich and poor nations. the parties need to overcome this division in order to reach an appropriate agreement in paris. the report calls for an ambitious, legally binding, global agreement and highlights the fact that this would "address the carbon leakage problem and concerns related to the competitiveness of relevant sectors, especially the energy sensitive sector". the report also highlights the importance of r&d, the need to promote new technologies and business models and to support research and innovation. i fully support this report in order to make progress towards an international agreement and to finally take effective action in line with the main objective.
written. ‒ while the original draft report on the road to a new international climate agreement in paris covers many key issues such as the european union's contribution to emissions reductions, the need for a flexible and accountable verification mechanism and the importance of gradually increasing funding for the green climate fund, i believe that this report exploits the overarching grounds for including unacceptable proposals. the commission should also be able to assess the impact of the proposed measures on the environment and the environment protection of the union's forests, in particular by assessing the impact of the proposed measures on the environment and the environment. as i have already said, i believe that many of the issues raised in this report are of great importance for the environment, but i believe that the targets set are too ambitious and therefore cannot lead to improvements in this area. that is why i abstained.
madam president, i thank all the rapporteurs who have worked on these important reports and have reinforced the messages of the european parliament on how important it is for us to ensure transparency and fairness in taxation at european union level. we want a system where taxes are paid where economic activity takes place and value is created. we don't want to level the tax rate, but we want systems that prevent tax avoidance. tax systems need to be simple, stable, secure and predictable. they're part of an environment that's encouraging entrepreneurship, and that's our constant message. the abolition of the savings tax directive also contributes to a simpler system. that directive was the basis for the establishment of the exchange of information on savings interest paid by savers established in one member state to natural persons resident in another member state. it is very important from the point of view of transparency and fairness of the tax system, and that is the goal we all share. in the meantime, a great deal of work has been done on cooperation between member states and the exchange of tax information in order to monitor all financial flows and tax avoidance. the administrative cooperation directive on taxation, which created the legislative framework for the application of the oecd global standards on the automatic exchange of information on taxation, has a wider scope than the savings interest income taxation directive and we therefore supported its abolition. of course, we must ensure that information is not lost and that some countries do not lose the insight into the income of their citizens that they have had under this directive so far, and i call on the european commission to take this into account.
mr. president, the fundamental question is whose interests are we trying to protect here. if we want to protect the interests of european citizens or multinational companies, then where is the selfishness of individual member states which ultimately, of course, comes at the expense of european citizens. in this context, i therefore welcome these proposals and think that the automatic exchange of tax information within the european union is a step in the right direction. because that is how we really want to protect the european union as a whole and the european citizens. in fact, i think there's a lot to be done and maybe a little thoughtful about moving forward. we have a common market, we have a series of joint projects, we have a common currency, which is not yet in all the member states, but in a large number of them it is. and the question experts are asking is whether this common currency can survive without a common tax system or at least a well-coordinated tax system.
mr. president, we certainly need to change the regulation directive from 25 years ago. we certainly need consumer protection and we certainly need to increase the number of protected journeys and all of this is what we really have in this new proposal for a new directive and a new regulation. but the fundamental question is, is it possible that we're talking about, 25 years later, that we need to adapt because we live in a digital age? well, we've been around for a decade. i say all this because i am deeply convinced, and i have convinced myself in the last year and a half, that we practically never talk about tourism here in this parliament. tourism is 10% of europe's gdp. i ask you, commissioner, to take this fact into account and to start talking more about tourism in the european parliament, to start talking more about tourism in the commission, because for many countries of the european union, especially in the mediterranean, it is the key to the development and future of the economy of these countries.
mr president, the fact is that the directive needs to be modernised and the fact is that we need to bring it into line with the digital age we live in. we also know that the low-cost companies have dominated the market today and we need to protect the interests of our consumers. we are here first and foremost for our citizens and therefore it is very important to us that their interests are protected. however, at the same time, i think that a balance needs to be struck between the consumer, that is, the client, but also the travel agents and hoteliers, who also need to be protected. i want to thank mrs. collin-langen for making good compromises. i believe this directive is going in the right direction. it is good that it has a few years to comply with national legislation, but in any case a balance must be struck between consumer protection and that of travel agencies and hoteliers. as i come from croatia where tourism is 17% of gdp, it is very important that we put this topic on the agenda and i agree with mr jakovčić that we need to talk more about this topic because it is a big contributor to the european economy.
mr president, the lisbon treaty has made a european citizens' initiative possible and i think that, unlike mr coburn, i think it is a very good initiative that allows citizens to get directly involved. of course, we know that there were 33 launched, 15 registered, 15 launched, only 3 saw the light of day in this parliament and none of them ended with a positive result. so i would like to thank mr schöphlin for the work he has done on this dossier. i believe that the commission may understand and become more proactive, that it will make it easier to collect signatures, to register signatures, and that we will, with this initiative, encourage the european commission to act. i think this is a very important instrument. the european citizens' initiative (eci) is a political action in some member states, but it is necessary to harmonise national legislation and make the eci positive and proactive.
mr president, mr commissioner, to date, 260,280 refugees and migrants have entered croatia and are not staying in croatia because croatia is not their 'promised land'. all five of them have applied for asylum. this is understandable, because beautiful croatia is unfortunately not a promised land, thanks to bad politics, even for young croats who go hungry to other eu member states. croatia is a transit station on the migration route. we hope that last night's agreement in brussels will not lead to croatia becoming a refugee camp for europe. because how else to interpret the decision that croatia will be the first country to register refugees and migrants after they have crossed almost half of europe? as the countries of western europe close their doors, the message that we need more europe sounds like a cheap slogan. we need solidarity with those fleeing the war, but also with each other. what we are witnessing is not solidarity and it is not a solution to the problem. the solution is for everyone to take their share of responsibility and to ensure peace in syria and the middle east.
mr president, we need to take the issue of accepting and integrating refugees into the european union much more seriously. there's always talk of fewer people than there are actually fleeing and coming into the european union. the two refugee resettlement plans we approved have stalled at 160,000 people, and over 250,000 have passed through croatia alone since september. security and solidarity would be reinforced by a concrete plan for the reception and care of refugees based on a realistic expected number. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's policy on asylum and return, in particular through the european border and coast guard agency, and will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's policy on asylum and return. this requires a large financial resource. we need to make a serious change in the content of the eu budget and respond to the new situation, taking into account countries in financial difficulties with high unemployment rates and large debts and deficits such as croatia, greece or spain.
mr president, our task as the european parliament will be fully fulfilled at the moment when the internet becomes the fifth european freedom. this is the way that then the citizens and all those who are interested, who need the internet, can be satisfied to the end. however, this is a step in the right direction. because in 2016, we're going to have similar costs of communication in the digital market, and because in 2017, we're going to basically eliminate roaming. we could have done more, but in the relationship we have with the council and the member states it was clearly not possible. so in the end, i strongly welcome what we will all be voting on together today and i believe that we will finally show that this europe has the strength to be more united, to be stronger together, because everything we are experiencing on the other hand is going to dilute our common ground, and i think that the common digital market also shows our common strength.
mr president, as a croat, i am concerned about the situation of reconciling national egoism and european cohesion that mr tusk spoke about this morning. it is good that a meeting was called on sunday, attended by all the leaders of the balkan countries, and it should not surprise mr juncker that he is not here, that the leaders could not meet in person. you must know that the situation in the western balkan countries is beyond the capacity of those countries and it is good that they are invited under the auspices of the european commission. i agree that we should be guarding the external borders instead of the internal borders. i also agree with mr. gonzales who said that the war against syria is a war against the european union, and until we solve the problems at the bottom, we will not solve the migration problem. i couldn't agree more. i also support the action plan. we need to help turkey, because if we don't help turkey, we also won't be able to continue to resolve the situation. there could be chaos, winter is coming, if we do not start implementing the decisions taken by the european council and the european commission. i agree that the member states must implement the decisions that have been taken if we do not want chaos. and we as politicians have a job to do, and citizens expect us to do, to solve problems. and so i ask you to finally take ourselves seriously and to understand the seriousness of destabilizing the european project.
mr. president, i'm from croatia, which has had over 250,000 people in the last month. all are provided with medical care, food, and organized transportation. all without the use of force, the burning of camps and the militarization of borders. the allegations of deliberately pushing refugees into rivers are completely misplaced. it's a desperate move by people who couldn't help but cross the border over a bridge into slovenia. the sunday agreement is good in theory, but how will it work if 10,000 people are leaving for europe again every day, and one country on the route limits the number of arrivals to 2,500? this crisis did not originate in the western balkans, nor can it be resolved there until the union's external border with turkey is under control. however, registration should be an obligation, not an option. instead of calling for a deal, let's work together. the european union needs to find a sustainable common response to the problem. otherwise we cannot expect the countries in crisis to make their own security a precondition for a common european policy which does not exist.
mr president, i welcome the agreement reached on sunday because it will make it possible to reduce the suffering of refugees and help countries along their route, including my own country, croatia, which has recently received and passed through more than 200 000 refugees. but these measures will not stop the flow of refugees into the european union, because that is not possible without the active use of force, which i hope europe will not choose. the more permanent solution is a deal with turkey which will certainly be difficult both financially and politically. and the real long-term solution is to influence the sources of solutions to the crisis in the middle east and north africa. unfortunately, the european union has no plans to do so.
written. the conclusions reached by the european council on 15 and 16 october on the so-called balkan route for migrants entering the european union are another fire-fighting solution, rather than a comprehensive and long-term solution. the way in which some member countries act and display dangerous nationalistic egotism does not solve the problem. the ultimate responsibility and solidarity of all actors is needed to find a long-term solution to the migration crisis. the balkans have once again demonstrated how important an area they are for the stability and security of the whole of europe, and in this context everything must be done to accelerate the path of the western balkan countries towards joining the european union.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the draft legislative resolution of the european parliament on the proposal for a regulation of the parliament and of the council repealing council directive 76/621/eec and council regulation (ec) no 320/2006 because i support the fact that acts which are no longer applicable should be repealed in order to improve the transparency and security of union legislation. the repeal of the obsolete acts concerned is in accordance with the interinstitutional agreement on better law-making, with a view to updating and simplifying the legislation in order to remove those acts which have ceased to have any practical effect. i believe that certainty, accessibility and simplicity of law are key factors in the correct and effective functioning of eu legislation.
written. ‒ in order to protect the security of european union law and to improve transparency, it is necessary to update and summarise policies by removing acts that are no longer applicable. the purpose of the report is to repeal council directive 76/621/eec and council regulation (ec) no 320/2006 as regards the common agricultural policy. the content of council directive 76/621/eec is included in commission regulation (ec) no 1881/2006 setting maximum levels for certain contaminants in food. i supported the report of mr czesław adam siekierski, member of the european parliament, as it is important for legal certainty to repeal rules that do not apply in order to simplify the understanding of the regulations by citizens and to strengthen confidence in the certainty and fairness of the legal order as the driver of the modern state.
written. ‒ i support the report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council repealing council directive 76/621/eec setting a maximum level of erucic acid in oils and fats and council regulation (ec) no 320/2006 establishing a temporary scheme for the restructuring of the sugar industry, as both acts are obsolete. regulation 76/621/eec was replaced by a new regulation 1881/2006 setting maximum levels for certain contaminants in food and regulation 320/2006 applied until the end of the 2009/2010 marketing year. i also want to warn about the abolition of the sugar quota system next year and call for a timely reaction from the commission so that the sugar sector does not find itself in the same situation as the milk sector. the commission has also taken the opportunity to present a report on the implementation of the new rules on the protection of the environment and the protection of the environment in the context of the implementation of the new rules on the protection of the environment.
written. ‒ i support all efforts to improve the security and transparency of union law, which forms the basis for better and more consistent legislation, including this regulation repealing the current rules on the maximum level of erucic acid in oils and fats and establishing a temporary scheme for the restructuring of the sugar industry. the commission has not received any comments from interested parties on the application of the met and it exemptions. the overall aim of these legal bases and agreements is to improve legislation by summarising and updating, or by removing, acts that are obsolete, no longer applicable, whose content has been covered by subsequent acts, or because of their temporary nature. in this case, the regulation on the levels of certain contaminants in food is a basic requirement to remove from the active legislation those acts which no longer have any real effect.
written. ‒ i agree with the report by my colleague czesław adam siekierski on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council repealing council directive 76/621/eec setting a maximum level of erucic acid in oils and fats and council regulation establishing a temporary scheme for the restructuring of the sugar industry. the reason for the repeal is that some legal acts adopted in recent decades are no longer relevant because their content has been covered by subsequent acts or because of their temporary nature. in accordance with the interinstitutional agreement on better law-making and with a view to improving transparency and security, union law should be updated and consolidated in a timely manner by repealing acts that are no longer applicable. the acts listed in the proposal should be repealed by the council and the european parliament in accordance with the ordinary legislative procedure, since the commission does not have the power to declare acts adopted by the council to be obsolete. the content of council directive 76/621/eec has been incorporated into commission regulation (ec) no 1881/2006 laying down maximum levels for certain contaminants in food and the temporary system established by council regulation (ec) no 320/2006 applied only until the 2009/2010 marketing year and, accordingly, those acts relating to the common agricultural policy are obsolete and should be repealed for reasons of legal certainty and clarity.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, but this explanation of vote is a criticism of the existing system of evaluating the work of meps in the european parliament solely on the basis of the statistical number of parliamentary activities promoted in croatia, which does not actually reflect the actual quality and quantity of work, efficiency and above all the success of the representative action.
written. ‒ some legal acts adopted in recent decades are no longer relevant because their content has been covered by subsequent acts or because of their temporary nature. the objective of this proposal is to repeal council directive 76/621/eec setting maximum levels of erucic acid in oils and fats and council regulation (ec) no 320/2006 establishing a temporary scheme for the restructuring of the sugar industry, which are based on articles 42 and 43 (2) of the treaty on the functioning of the european union. those legal acts relating to the common policy are formally still in force, although they are obsolete and should be repealed for reasons of legal certainty and clarity. i fully support the proposal to remove those acts from the active legislation, as they no longer have any real effect and remain only technically in force. in order to improve transparency and security, union law should be updated and summarised by deleting acts that are no longer applicable. the removal of these acts is a key element of the better law-making strategy implemented by the institutions.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the draft legislative resolution of the european parliament on the draft council decision on the conclusion, on behalf of the european union, of the amending protocol to the agreement between the european community and the swiss confederation providing for measures equivalent to those laid down in council directive 2003/48/ec on taxation of savings income in order to strengthen cooperation between the union and switzerland in the field of financial transactions. this is a strong contribution to reducing tax evasion and the concealment of capital representing income or assets that have not been taxed. i consider that the agreement obliges switzerland to apply measures equivalent to european legislation in the sector concerned. i consider that the exchange of information is necessary to ensure a fair and consistent tax policy and therefore i support this report which accepts the draft council decision and approves the conclusion of the agreement.
‒ the european union and switzerland signed an agreement on the automatic exchange of information on financial accounts in may 2015 to enhance and harmonise international tax cooperation. the agreement should enter into force on 1 january 2017 and is an important step towards tackling tax fraud and tax evasion where switzerland will also apply measures equivalent to those in the eu directives. the obligation to publish full name and identification number is added to achieve absolute transparency, instead of one report per year, the time frame is reduced to three months, then the unconditional exchange of information is requested and the area for dividends, interest and royalties is brought into line with current european legislation for coherence and consistency. i supported the report of the representative of jeppe kofoed, as it is necessary to detect in time the suspicious behaviour of taxpayers and to prevent tax evasion. all this is doing a great deal of damage to the eu budget, and quality international cooperation can be the key to success.
written. ‒ i supported this legislative resolution in relation to the historic agreement between the european union and switzerland on tax transparency, which commits them to automatically exchange information on the financial accounts of their residents. the amendment proposed and supported by the european parliament should make it easier for member states to identify tax evaders and should also reduce the concealment of income and assets abroad in order to avoid paying taxes. i support the clear wording of this short resolution which emphasises the importance of taking effective action against tax fraud and tax evasion, in particular against tax fraud and tax evasion committed by natural and legal persons established in the union with the participation of financial institutions established in third countries. i hope that in 18 months' time we will have a report from the european commission which will show the full justification of the steps taken today.
written. ‒ i support the decision on cooperation and exchange of information on financial accounts between the eu and switzerland aimed at preventing and detecting attempts at tax fraud and tax evasion, and with a view to improving international tax cooperation. the information exchange will be based on the exchange of information between the competent authorities of the member states and the commission. this decision will allow for the exchange of information with a view to identifying specific taxpayers, applying tax laws in cross-border situations, assessing the likelihood of tax avoidance and avoiding further unnecessary investigations. furthermore, i agree with the rapporteur that there is room for improvement and further measures, such as achieving an even higher level of transparency and more extensive exchange of information, more frequent reporting to competent authorities on actions and control measures taken and the abolition of a number of exceptions and limitations to this type of exchange.
the european union and switzerland signed an agreement on 27 may 2015 on the automatic exchange of information on financial accounts, which aims to enhance international tax cooperation and compliance. the agreement represents an important step in efforts to tackle tax fraud and tax evasion, and an upgrade of the 2004 agreement that ensures switzerland applies measures equivalent to those in the eu savings tax directive. the eu and switzerland will automatically exchange information on financial accounts of residents, starting in 2018, under the agreement. the aim is to address situations where a taxpayer seeks to conceal capital representing income or assets for which taxes have not been paid. the agreement aims to ensure that switzerland applies measures equivalent to eu directives and to promote global standards in accordance with the automatic exchange of financial account information. the commission notes that the tax rulings of the tax administration of the united kingdom and ireland are not binding on the tax authorities of the united kingdom and ireland. the tax administrations in the member states and in switzerland will be able to identify correct and unambiguous taxpayers when it comes to the management and enforcement of tax laws in cross-border situations and to assess the likelihood of tax evasion. for all of the above, i support reporter jeppe kofod.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, but this explanation of vote is a criticism of the existing system of evaluating the work of meps in the european parliament solely on the basis of the statistical number of parliamentary activities promoted in croatia, which does not actually reflect the actual quality and quantity of work, efficiency and above all the success of the representative action.
written. ‒ the importance of automatic exchange of information as a means of combating cross-border tax fraud and cross-border tax evasion by ensuring full tax transparency and cooperation between tax administrations worldwide has also recently been recognised at international level. the g20 has entrusted the organisation for economic cooperation and development (oecd) with the task of developing a single global standard for the automatic exchange of information on financial accounts. the report emphasises the importance of taking effective measures against tax fraud and tax avoidance, with a focus on tax evasion and tax avoidance by natural and legal persons in the union with the participation of financial institutions in third countries. i fully support the report on the proposal for a council decision on the conclusion, on behalf of the european union, of the amending protocol to the agreement between the european community and the swiss confederation providing for measures equivalent to those laid down in council directive 2003/48/ec on taxation of savings income in the form of interest payments, as this amendment provides for a harmonised, consistent and comprehensive approach to the automatic exchange of financial account information in the internal market at union level.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the draft legislative resolution of the european parliament on the proposal for a council directive repealing council directive 2003/48/eu, as this would avoid a double system of data collection and reporting. i believe that it is necessary to simplify european union law, to bring it closer to citizens and to avoid excessive administrative burdens by ensuring clear and transparent legislation. in this context, the fight against tax evasion and fair taxation is of key importance at european and global level and, accordingly, legislation in this area needs to be made as clear and effective as possible. it is also important to emphasise that existing bilateral agreements between the eu and third countries continue to apply notwithstanding the repeal of that directive. i believe that an appropriate balance has been struck between the potential 'gaps' in the legislation and the possible overburden of double reporting, and i therefore support this report.
written. ‒ tax systems must be simple, stable, secure, predictable and must be part of an incentive environment for entrepreneurs. the contribution to a simpler system is also the repeal of the council directive on taxation of savings income on interest. the council directive on taxation of savings income on interest was the basis for the establishment of the exchange of information on savings income on interest paid by savers established in one member state to natural persons resident in another member state. the new directive on administrative cooperation in the field of taxation creates a legislative framework for the application of the oecd global standards on the automatic exchange of tax information, is more comprehensive than the savings tax directive and introduces different reporting standards. in order to simplify the system and avoid double reporting standards, i supported the repeal of the savings tax directive.
‒ directive 2003/48/eu on taxation of savings income was aimed at combating cross-border tax evasion by creating an information exchange system for tax authorities to help them identify the beneficial owners of savings income received in a country other than their country of residence. the report on the proposal for a council directive repealing that directive, which i supported, allows for the transition from the application of the old to the full application of the new directive 2014/107/eu supplementing directive 2011/16/eu on administrative cooperation in the field of taxation. during the transitional period, care should be taken to avoid legal loopholes in the application of these acts, in particular if bilateral agreements with switzerland, liechtenstein, san marino, monaco and andorra are not signed in time. it is for this reason that i also supported the recommendation that the commission submit a report on the implementation of the transition to the application of these acts by july 2016 and an additional report by october 2017 with a proposal for appropriate legal acts, if necessary.
written. ‒ as five european non-member states are currently negotiating the adoption of oecd global standards for the automatic exchange of information in the field of taxation, the need to repeal the 2003 tax savings directive has emerged, making it redundant. while the repeal of the directive in question would potentially avoid the burden of double reporting, this decision should be taken with a degree of caution due to the possibility of opening additional loopholes or reporting deficiencies that could lead to cross-border tax fraud and tax evasion. the commission should, within its competence, take over the negotiations with the 12 associated territories in order to facilitate and promote the revision of member states' agreements. fair taxation and the fight against tax evasion remain a major global problem and therefore caution should be exercised in repealing a directive that has been in force for several years. member states should establish their lists of national low-risk accounts, which should be notified to parliament by the commission. there is also concern about the possibility of opening a one-year transitional period until the automatic exchange of information enters into force, during which the exchange of information between member states and third countries would not be running normally. while we agree to repeal the old directive, the commission should be asked to examine the risks in reporting in more detail.
written. ‒ the tax directive was adopted in 2003 to ensure that savings interest is taxed, and its provisions became applicable in 2005. the directive applies between the eu countries and the twelve overseas territories (anguilla, aruba, the british virgin islands, the cayman islands, curacao, guernsey, the isle of man, jersey, monserrat, st martin, the turks and caicos islands). in parallel, the european commission, on behalf of the european union, is negotiating similar bilateral agreements with five european non-eu countries - switzerland, andorra, liechtenstein, monaco and san marino. the commission is hoping to reach an agreement with the other four countries in the coming months. the fight against tax avoidance and the need for safe taxation are of major importance at both european and global level. the commission has not received any comments from interested parties on the allegedly unlawful aid. the report calls on the commission to act, if necessary through legislative proposals, to ensure the closure of potential holes. the amendments will ensure that parliament plays its role in reducing the potential loss of tax revenue in member states across the union. for all of the above, i support reporter molly scott cato.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, but this explanation of vote is a criticism of the existing system of evaluating the work of meps in the european parliament solely on the basis of the statistical number of parliamentary activities promoted in croatia, which does not actually reflect the actual quality and quantity of work, efficiency and above all the success of the representative action.
written. ‒ in 2003, the council adopted a directive on the taxation of savings income on interest (the savings directive). the directive had two main objectives: to avoid disturbances in the movement of capital and to enable the taxation of interest income paid by payers established in one member state to natural persons resident in another member state to be carried out successfully. the savings directive facilitates the taxation of that type of interest income in accordance with the laws of the member state in which the natural person receiving interest income is resident by requiring the automatic exchange of information on interest income paid to those natural persons. i support the proposal to repeal council directive 2003/48/ec on taxation of savings income in the form of interest payments, as i believe that this ensures that there is only one applicable standard for the automatic exchange of information in the eu and avoids situations where two standards are applied simultaneously. the commission should also be able to assess the impact of the measures on the financial markets, in particular on the financial markets, in order to assess the impact of the measures on the financial markets.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the draft legislative resolution of the european parliament on the draft council implementing decision on the launch of automated data exchange with sweden, as this strengthens cross-border cooperation in the fight against terrorism and cross-border crime. the automated exchange of data allows for more effective prevention and consistent investigation of criminal offences and strengthens security within the european union itself. synergies between member states in this area contribute to the international fight against terrorism, to strengthening cross-border police cooperation and to stability, and i therefore support this report.
‒ the purpose of the report by ms monika flašíková beňová is to approve the council decision of july 2015 authorising sweden to receive and supply personal data pursuant to decision 2008/615/jha and for more advanced and improved cross-border cooperation. since dactyloscopy is the most modern and secure method of identifying a person and the automated exchange of dactyloscopic data is a step forward for a safer society, the report supported the objective of launching automated exchange of dactyloscopic data in sweden.
written. ‒ the exchange of dactyloscopic data is crucial to enhance security across the european union. i believe that the dactyloscopic data available in the national fingerprint databases should be available to all member states of the european union for inspection and searching and that there should be a constant exchange of dactyloscopic data between states, as this would avoid long-term investigations and the search for the culprits of certain crimes. such exchanges would help to detect and prevent the increasing presence of organised crime in europe and the terrorism that has unfortunately become a global threat. sweden, as a destination country for many immigrants, should have this security exchange set at a high level because of the constant influx of new people from other parts of europe, and indeed the world. moreover, statistics show that 25% of crime in sweden is committed by third country nationals, while an additional 20% of crime in sweden is committed by family members of immigrants, and taking into account new waves of migration that will further change the structure of the population, preventive measures need to be taken to strengthen security and prevent organised crime like this.
written. ‒ the fight against terrorism and crossborder crime is an important element of interstate cooperation within the eu and i believe that the exchange and availability of personal data, in this case fingerprints, should be seen in this light. however, it is also important to require that such cross-border cooperation only takes place under the condition that the national laws of the countries involved have fully implemented personal data protection regulations. since these conditions are met in sweden, i support this draft.
written. ‒ i support the report by monika flašíková beňová on the launch of the automatic exchange of data on dactyloscopic data (fingerprints) in sweden. in accordance with the decision to step up cross-border cooperation, in particular in the fight against terrorism and cross-border crime and the supply of personal data. the protection is implemented in the national law of the territory of the member states participating in such offers. sweden has completed the data protection questionnaire and the dactyloscopic data exchange questionnaire and a successful pilot run has been carried out by sweden with austria. on the basis of the overall evaluation report submitted, the council concluded on 13 july 2015 that sweden has fully implemented the general provisions on data protection.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, but this explanation of vote is a criticism of the existing system of evaluating the work of meps in the european parliament solely on the basis of the statistical number of parliamentary activities promoted in croatia, which does not actually reflect the actual quality and quantity of work, efficiency and above all the success of the representative action.
written. ‒ the objective of this draft council implementing decision is to launch the automated exchange of dactyloscopic data in sweden. the international exchange of dactyloscopic data is key to the fight against cross-border crime. the decisions referred to in article 25 (2) of decision 2008/615/jha shall be taken on the basis of an evaluation report based on a questionnaire. the questionnaire drawn up by the relevant council working party shall cover each automated data exchange and shall be completed by the member state, which shall be deemed to fulfil the conditions for sharing data in the relevant data category. i fully support this council draft with the aim of launching automated data exchange of dactyloscopic data in sweden, as i believe that this will contribute to deepening cross-border cooperation, especially in combating terrorism and cross-border crime. the ultimate objective is to support sweden in the fight against cross-border crime and to strengthen eu law enforcement cooperation.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the draft legislative resolution of the european parliament on the draft council implementing decision on the launch of automated data exchange with regard to dactyloscopic data in belgium, because this type of exchange promotes more effective prevention and consistent investigation of criminal offences, while strengthening internal and international security. it is of particular importance that cross-border cooperation in combating terrorism and cross-border crime be promoted. when it comes to more serious and bigger problems at eu level, unity and synergy between member states are key to ensuring security and stability, and that is why i support this report.
written. ‒ the aim of the report is to launch the automated exchange of dactyloscopic data in belgium. in order to facilitate and improve cross-border cooperation, in particular for the detection of terrorism and cross-border crime, the council authorised belgium in july 2015 to receive and supply personal data in accordance with decision 2008/615/jha. i supported the report of ms monika flašíková beňová, member of the european parliament, as dactyloscopy is the most advanced and secure method of identifying a person and the automatic exchange of dactyloscopic data is a prerequisite for a safer society. dactyloscopy was introduced in 1904 in zagreb, croatia for the purpose of identifying persons.
written. ‒ i consider the exchange of dactyloscopic data to be crucial in strengthening security throughout the european union. i consider that the dactyloscopic data available in the national fingerprint databases should be available for all member states of the european union to view and search, and that there should be a continuous exchange of dactyloscopic data between the states. this would avoid lengthy investigations and the search for the perpetrators of certain crimes. such exchanges can certainly contribute to the successful detection and prevention of organised crime, which is increasingly present in europe, and of terrorism, which has unfortunately become a global threat today. the kingdom of belgium, as a member of the european union, sees this exchange of security information as useful and considers that it should be organised at the high level necessary for the effective enhancement of security and the prevention of organised crime. for all of the above, i support this decision.
written. ‒ the fight against terrorism and crossborder crime is an important element of interstate cooperation within the eu and i believe that the exchange and availability of personal data, in this case fingerprints, should be seen in this light. however, it is also important to require that such cross-border cooperation only takes place under the condition that the national laws of the countries involved have fully implemented personal data protection regulations. since these conditions are met in belgium, i support this draft.
written. ‒ i support the report on the launch of the automatic exchange of data concerning dactyloscopic data (fingerprints) in belgium, in accordance with the decision to intensify cross-border cooperation, in particular in the fight against terrorism and cross-border crime, and the supply of personal data provided for in that decision. the objective is effective international cooperation in the fight against terrorism and cross-border crime, which is essential for the rapid and efficient exchange of accurate information. it also aims to put in place procedures to promote a fast, efficient and low-cost way of exchanging data. the commission should be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 290 tfeu concerning the definition of the concept of 'originating products' and the definition of the concept of 'originating products' and the definition of the concept of 'originating products' and the definition of the concept of 'originating products' and the definition of the concept of 'originating products'. belgium has completed the questionnaire on data protection and the questionnaire on dactyloscopic data exchange. the successful pilot run was conducted by belgium with france and luxembourg. on the basis of the overall evaluation report, the council concluded on 13 july 2015 that the general provisions on data protection were fully implemented in belgium.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, but this explanation of vote is a criticism of the existing system of evaluating the work of meps in the european parliament solely on the basis of the statistical number of parliamentary activities promoted in croatia, which does not actually reflect the actual quality and quantity of work, efficiency and above all the success of the representative action.
‒ the international exchange of dactyloscopic data is key to the fight against cross-border crime. the purpose of this draft council implementing decision is to launch the automated exchange of dactyloscopic data in belgium. the ultimate objective is to support belgium in the fight against cross-border crime and to enhance law enforcement cooperation in the eu. the decisions referred to in article 25 (2) of decision 2008/615/jha shall be taken on the basis of an evaluation report based on a questionnaire. the questionnaire drawn up by the relevant council working party shall cover each automated data exchange and shall be completed by the member state, which shall be deemed to fulfil the conditions for sharing data in the relevant data category. taking into account also the application of the prüm decision and the european model for the exchange of information, i support this draft council with the aim of launching the automated exchange of dactyloscopic data in belgium. i believe that the launch of automated data exchange of dactyloscopic data in belgium can make a significant contribution to the deepening of cross-border cooperation, in particular in the fight against terrorism and cross-border crime.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the draft legislative resolution of the european parliament on the draft council implementing decision on the launch of automated data exchange in poland, because the synergy of member states in this area contributes to the international fight against terrorism, to strengthening cross-border police cooperation and to stability. in addition, it promotes cooperation in the fight against cross-border crime and strengthens internal and international security. unity and synergy between member states are needed to achieve this for the benefit of all union citizens and i therefore consider that this type of automated exchange is particularly important for national and eu bodies operating in the field concerned.
written. ‒ i supported the report by monika flašíkova beňová, mep, which aims to launch the automated exchange of dactyloscopic data in poland. fingerprinting is the most advanced and secure method of identifying a person, and the automated exchange of fingerprint data is another step towards a safer society. in order to facilitate and enhance cross-border cooperation, in particular for the detection of terrorism and cross-border crime, the council authorised poland in july 2015 to receive and supply personal data in accordance with decision 2008/615/jha.
written. ‒ i welcome the decision to include poland in the automated exchange of dactyloscopic data. i consider the exchange of dactyloscopic data to be of crucial importance in enhancing security throughout the european union. those data from national fingerprint databases should be available for all member states of the european union to view and search, and there should be a continuous exchange of dactyloscopic data between member states. this would avoid lengthy investigations and the search for the perpetrators of certain crimes. such exchanges can certainly contribute to the successful detection and prevention of organised crime, which is increasingly present in europe, and of terrorism, which has unfortunately become a global threat today. poland considers that the exchange of information on the security of the border is necessary to ensure the effective implementation of the schengen acquis. for all of the above, i support this decision.
written. ‒ the fight against terrorism and crossborder crime is an important element of interstate cooperation within the eu and i believe that the exchange and availability of personal data, in this case fingerprints, should be seen in this light. however, it is also important to require that such cross-border cooperation only takes place under the condition that the national laws of the countries involved have fully implemented personal data protection regulations. since these conditions are met in poland, i support this draft.
written. ‒ i support the report by my colleague monika flašíková beňová on the launch of automatic data exchange with regard to dactyloscopic data (fingerprints) in poland. the aim is to combat terrorism and cross-border crime and to facilitate and strengthen cross-border cooperation through the exchange of information between agencies responsible for the prevention and investigation of criminal offences. one of the objectives of the european union is to provide citizens with a high degree of security in the areas of freedom, security and justice through the development of common procedures among member states in the field of police and judicial cooperation in criminal matters. the importance of accurate information for effective international cooperation in the member states and the promotion of a fast, efficient and low-cost way of exchanging data is emphasised. the report complies with the decision to step up cross-border cooperation, in particular in the fight against terrorism and cross-border crime, the provision of personal data provided for in that decision in order to maintain the general data provisions. poland has completed the questionnaire on data protection and the questionnaire on dactyloscopic data exchange. furthermore, a successful pilot run was carried out by poland with austria and, on the basis of the overall evaluation report, the council concluded on 13 july 2015 that poland has fully implemented the general provisions on data protection set out in chapter 6 of decision 2008/615/jha.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, but this explanation of vote is a criticism of the existing system of evaluating the work of meps in the european parliament solely on the basis of the statistical number of parliamentary activities promoted in croatia, which does not actually reflect the actual quality and quantity of work, efficiency and above all the success of the representative action.
written. ‒ the objective of this draft council implementing decision is to launch the automated exchange of dactyloscopic data in poland. the international exchange of dactyloscopic data is key to the fight against cross-border crime. the ultimate objective is to support poland in the fight against cross-border crime and to enhance law enforcement cooperation in the eu. the decisions referred to in article 25 (2) of decision 2008/615/jha shall be taken on the basis of an evaluation report based on a questionnaire. the questionnaire drawn up by the relevant council working party shall cover each automated data exchange and shall be completed by the member state, which shall be deemed to fulfil the conditions for sharing data in the relevant data category. taking into account also the application of the prüm decision and the european model for information exchange, i support this draft council with the aim of launching automated exchange of dactyloscopic data in poland. i believe that the launch of automated data exchange of dactyloscopic data in poland can significantly contribute to the deepening of cross-border cooperation, in particular in the fight against terrorism and cross-border crime.
(the beginning of the speech is unclear) to a directive that was written at a time when shopping was much easier and when not everything could be done online. the commission should be able to assess the impact of the proposed amendments on the situation of the union industry. but i would also like to stress that we must also take care to protect the tourism entrepreneurs so that our decisions do not have far-reaching consequences for the competitiveness and profitability of the hotel industry. it is good that the warnings of the experts were heeded in order to avoid possible problems that would lead to the burden of new taxes, which would then increase the price of products and services, and many hotels would not be able to pay these new taxes and would stop offering specific products, for which croatia is already a well-known tourist destination. i also hope that this proposal for a directive will not lead to a different calculation of vat on certain hotel products, to the detriment of hoteliers but also of course to the detriment of the final users, tourists. i therefore call for a serious debate on tourism in the european parliament, because it is an economic sector that has been unfairly neglected.
written. - we buy up to 35% of our trips online on the assumption that we are protected. however, the truth is different. citizens who bought travel were not protected, and the fees for cancellation or change of reservation were generally about 3 times more expensive than those who bought travel through travel agencies. this is a loss of about a billion euros a year for customers. my fellow citizens often complain that some websites that book hotels or buy transport tickets charge a higher commission in croatia than in other member states. it's a problem i've been warning about all along. the new directive will allow the buyer to see the components of the final price and make the whole process more transparent. also, the merchant is obliged to provide contacts for emergencies and unforeseen situations which will reduce fraud.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the draft legislative resolution of the european parliament on the council position at first reading with a view to the adoption of a directive of the parliament and of the council on package travel and linked travel arrangements, amending regulation (ec) no 2006/2004 and directive 2011/83/eu and repealing council directive 90/314/eec, as it accepts the council position at first reading. tourism plays a key role in the european economy and is an important driver of growth in all member states. i believe that it is necessary to raise the level of security among traders and consumers and to improve the functioning of the internal market in that area. it is also necessary to ensure a level playing field and to remove legal obstacles in order to allow the sector to develop in line with other policies and objectives of the european union, and i therefore support this recommendation.
written. ‒ tourism plays a central role in the european economy with 1.8 million mostly small and medium-sized enterprises, employing 5.2% of the total workforce. the european commission has proposed to modernise the directive in order to better protect travellers when purchasing packages and linked travel arrangements. this would also ensure a better functioning of the internal market. it is necessary, inter alia, to regulate the provisions on the content and presentation of packages and the issuing of their certificates and to determine the possibilities for changing the prices of packages. i supported the report by mrs birgit collin-langen because of the importance of improving passenger safety and confidence in organised travel.
written. ‒ we have all been in the situation of being denied a credit card or being unable to arrange accommodation at the arrival point of a destination due to unforeseen circumstances. you may have been charged more by a car rental company than a rental car without any specific reason or on the grounds that you misunderstood a service provider who is not the same company you rent a car from, and who has told you that you need to read the small print on a website that has no link. such experiences are traumatic if you are thousands of miles from home in a country where you may also have a language barrier. although we croats do not have the money to travel the world often, i believe that the experience and service we offer in croatia must be excellent for our guests, not traumatic due to the irresponsible behavior of tourist agencies. i therefore welcome this new directive and the improvements it brings to consumers. unfortunately, it does not address the issue of protecting the rights of hoteliers in the event of last-minute cancellations of tourist arrangements, nor does it fully protect the interests of this sector, which is the backbone of croatian tourism, which is why i believe it is necessary to hold a detailed debate on tourism in the european parliament.
written. ‒ i support the draft directive as it seeks to establish clearer, more modern and more effective guidelines for the protection of travellers and for the provision of information to potential customers of package travel arrangements. the most important provisions are the possibility of protection for travellers against the organiser's insolvency in the event of unforeseen circumstances, covering all reasonable foreseeable costs and payments of the traveller in relation to the package, and the enhanced rights of travellers and the enhanced liability of the organiser in cases of improper performance of the contract, sudden price changes and the need for compensation in the event of material and non-material damage. in the event of improper performance of the contract, the burden of proof shall be on the tour operator, as well as the obligation to find a suitable alternative arrangement for the traveller, or to provide compensation within two weeks in the event that such an alternative arrangement is not available. the proposal for a directive also provides for a clearer definition of the pre-contractual information and information on the rights of termination to be provided to customers. the adoption of such a directive would enable our citizens to enjoy their rights in the single internal market of the european union with less stress and care, to move freely and to spend their days off worthily travelling and discovering new countries and cultures.
written. ‒ tourism plays a central role in the european economy today. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the eu's integrated approach to the promotion of sustainable tourism, in particular through the development of a european tourism strategy, the development of a european tourism strategy and the development of a european tourism strategy. the commission should be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 290 tfeu concerning the conditions for the participation of third countries in union programmes in the field of education, training and youth. the proposed directive seeks to clarify and modernise the scope of protection of travellers when purchasing a combination of tourist services for the same trip or holiday by bringing into its scope different forms of online packages and travel arrangements. the report aims to ensure that passengers are better informed about the services they purchase and to provide clear assistance in case of difficulties. the commission notes that the measure is not intended to create a new market for the provision of tourism services, but rather to create a new market for tourism services. i support this report to improve the functioning of the internal market and to achieve a high level of consumer protection through harmonisation of member states' laws, regulations and administrative provisions on package travel and other combinations of travel services.
‒ a key task for the european union is to create a regulatory framework that ensures consumers are sufficiently protected to travel confidently anywhere in the union. at the same time, a level playing field should be ensured for travel undertakings in order to maximise market competitiveness. the commission has proposed a revision which consists mainly of clarifying the scope and definition of package travel and 'assisted travel', information on obligations towards consumers and the contents of contracts, rules to protect consumers against the insolvency of employers, rules in case of contract amendments, etc. given that it is a key point of my club of representatives to achieve high standards of consumer protection, while avoiding complex provisions that threaten the situation of small traders in the travel agency sector, i voted against the proposal to repeal amendment 1 by the council in plenary. i believe that this agreement will enable us to strike a balance between consumer rights and the need to protect small traders and to break the tradition of unfair business practices by 'large' employers.
written. ‒ parliament has been put in a position where they have to decide whether to accept roaming and a vaguely defined net neutrality or not to accept anything, so the whole process will take a few more years. roaming is a big project that will bring huge savings to consumers. the commission has estimated that the decline in profits experienced by telecom operators will be in fact offset by the fact that a large number of consumers will only now start using roaming. because of the unpleasant surprises that we all had to face on the bill when we returned from our travels, most of us relied on wireless internet in cafes and hotels. the amendment is of great importance for the digital single market project and that is why i supported the proposal nonetheless.
written. ‒ i supported the draft legislative resolution of the european parliament on the council position at first reading with a view to the adoption of a regulation of the parliament and of the council laying down measures concerning open internet access and amending directive 2002/22/ec and regulation (eu) no 531/2012, as i strongly support the creation of a single market for electronic communications which is necessary. in this context, the abolition of roaming charges is crucial to ensure a genuine common market, consistency and the elimination of unjustified additional costs, as is the principle of internet neutrality. i think it's necessary to protect consumers and ensure that operators follow the rules. i therefore support this recommendation, which accepts the council's position at first reading.
written. ‒ this regulation introduces harmonised rules to protect open internet access in order to protect users' rights and eliminate the additional cost of roaming. parliament took its position after the first reading on 3 april 2014 and on 2 september 2014 the itre committee opened interinstitutional negotiations. the negotiating teams of parliament and the council, with the participation of the commission, reached an informal agreement. the text of the agreement was presented to the itre committee and approved by a large majority. i supported the recommendation of representative pilar del castillo vera, to protect net neutrality so that every citizen can access content on the internet without discrimination. i consider it a great achievement to abolish roaming charges completely, which croatian citizens will feel directly during their stay outside the country.
‒ the european parliament wants to ensure a single european market for electronic communications and to make it easier for consumers and service providers to use and provide these services. the establishment of the single market makes it possible to abolish roaming, which means eliminating unnecessary costs for our citizens. when consumer protection is at stake, i support the obligation to make all necessary information available before the conclusion of the contract, as well as the possibility of terminating the contract without additional costs after the expiry of 6 months from the signing of the contract and i certainly support facilitating the change of service provider. the commission has also found that the provision of the service by the public broadcaster is not in line with the principle of proportionality, as it is not in line with the principle of proportionality. in addition to citizens, facilitated action would also be made possible for service providers, which i also consider to be beneficial for croatian citizens. increased competition prevents the possibility of cartel association and agreed pricing of services, which croatian citizens without specific evidence other than high monthly bill prices often suspect. i'm in favor of competition from more operators because the service is always better and with more options, the prices are cheaper and the customers are more satisfied.
written. ‒ over the past year, major strides have been made in the area of protecting freedom of electronic communication, and the efforts of parliament and the council to ensure open internet access and to abolish roaming charges are part of that process. i fully support the harmonisation of rules in this area at eu level. in june 2017, all roaming charges for calls, sms and data traffic on mobile devices in the eu will be abolished, which is largely an achievement of the group of socialists and democrats who opened this problem and over the years consistently insisted on its solution. furthermore, i support regulation that would ensure the openness of the internet, that is, its neutrality, and that would force internet service providers to treat all network traffic equally. in addition, all forms of blocking, degradation and discrimination of online services, content and applications will be strictly prohibited by this proposal, which is a significant advance in an area where such practices often go unchecked and unpunished, in the absence of harmonised regulation at union level.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, but this explanation of vote is a criticism of the existing system of evaluating the work of meps in the european parliament solely on the basis of the statistical number of parliamentary activities promoted in croatia, which does not actually reflect the actual quality and quantity of work, efficiency and above all the success of the representative action.
written. ‒ new growth opportunities and economies of scale can improve the return on investment in high-speed networks, while fostering competition and global competitiveness. however, operators in the eu cannot make sufficient use of them. the fragmented national markets leave consumers with a narrow choice, lack access to innovative services and still pay high prices for cross-border calls or for roaming within the eu. it is necessary to guarantee a common high level of consumer protection throughout the union and, to that end, common trading conditions, including measures to phase out roaming surcharges and measures to protect open internet access. the general objective of this proposal is to move towards a single market for electronic communications in which citizens and businesses can access electronic communications services from anywhere in the union, without cross-border restrictions or unjustified additional costs. the single market for electronic communications would promote competition, investment and innovation in networks and services by encouraging market integration and cross-border investment in networks and services. there was no final vote on the second reading, but i voted against the proposal to reject the council's position and against the amendments to the council's proposal.
madam president, i support this report. last time we were here, we were debating the abolition of the death penalty everywhere in the world. we, as europeans who defend human rights, fight against the death penalty, against torture and the humiliation of people. if we don't want to just talk about and speak out against the death penalty and criticize china, iran or saudi arabia for the huge number of death sentences, we also have to do something concrete. and this report is what leads to us being able to restrict exports ourselves, to restrict the export of goods or even to prohibit the export of goods that can be used for torture or the death penalty, that is, our economic interests are a little bit out of the way here, and we primarily defend human rights, life and the dignity of the human being. i agree with that and support the report.
madam president, i am personally committed to respect for human life and i am opposed to the death penalty and i supported the adoption of this regulation which also reflects the european union's commitment against the death penalty. i regard the present regulation on trade in certain goods which could be used for capital punishment, torture or other cruel, inhuman or degrading treatment or punishment as a civilizing achievement and a significant example of the consistency with which the european union seeks to prevent and impede trade in those goods. the amendment to this regulation meets the challenges of the times and introduces a new list of prohibited products. unfortunately, we still see a lot of executions in the world, and the number is increasing year by year, and i personally consider any death penalty to be inhumane. it is clear that the adoption of this regulation will not abolish the death penalty, but i hope that it will have the effect of making its execution less possible. i support this amendment and continue to advocate for the continuation of the european policy of advocating the abolition of the death penalty on a global scale.
written. ‒ i support this report which aims to contribute to the abolition of the death penalty worldwide. moves such as banning the trade in items that can be used as torture by various regimes, as well as controlling lethal drugs, will at the very least make it harder for them to obtain the necessary items. more importantly, it will send a clear message that eu member states are strongly opposed to the death penalty in the world.
written. ‒ i supported the draft legislative resolution of the european parliament on the proposal for a regulation of the parliament and of the council amending council regulation (ec) no 1236/2005 on trade in certain goods which could be used for capital punishment, torture or other cruel, inhuman or degrading treatment or punishment, because i support the fundamental value and the policy of the european union against all forms of torture. it is essential to provide for legislative, administrative, judicial and external measures to prevent and prohibit the production, trade and use of goods which could be used for the purpose of torture and to control those which have a potential inhumane use. in addition, it is necessary to adapt to the growing technological changes and to trigger the exchange of information and strong synergies between the actors involved. i consider, however, that it is necessary to apply proportionate controls in order to avoid excessive burdens that would restrict legitimate trade.
‒ regulation no 1236/2005 is a unique instrument that contributes to the protection of human rights by controlling objects and activities that could be used for capital punishment, torture or other cruel, inhuman or degrading treatment or punishment. it is important to properly align the legislative, administrative and judicial measures that will effectively control goods with a potentially lethal or inhuman intent. i supported the report of mp marietje schaake on the need to fight against the death penalty, torture or other cruel, inhuman or degrading treatment or punishment, because the right to life is an inherent right of every individual, as enshrined in the 1990 christmas constitution in croatia.
written. ‒ despite the ban, companies still sell products that can be used for capital punishment or torture. the commission has therefore made a proposal which is currently before parliament. however, in order for any change to lead to improvement, the shortcomings in the original regulation would have to be addressed. the regulation seeks to prevent the trade or exchange of products that could be used for the execution of the death penalty, torture or other degrading treatment or punishment. i think it is a good decision because there should be controls on the import and export of such products. the european union does not support the death penalty and torture and will not participate in the execution of such punishment in any way, which means that it will not supply such products to countries where the death penalty is still applied and where various forms of torture are still practised. in order to prevent the execution of the death penalty, the supply of products that enable it must also be prevented. this regulation, which also establishes a list of prohibited products, contributes to that objective.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, but this explanation of vote is a criticism of the existing system of evaluating the work of meps in the european parliament solely on the basis of the statistical number of parliamentary activities promoted in croatia, which does not actually reflect the actual quality and quantity of work, efficiency and above all the success of the representative action.
‒ regulation (ec) no 1236/2005 introduces a prohibition on the export of goods which have no practical use other than for the purposes of capital punishment, torture or other cruel, inhuman or degrading treatment or punishment, and controls on the export of certain goods which may be used for those purposes. in addition to the current prohibition on the import and export of objects which could be used for torture or capital punishment (annex ii) and the system of authorisations for objects which could be used for torture (annex iii), the commission proposes to insert annex iiia, in order to prevent controlled goods from being used for capital punishment by lethal injection, to increase the restrictions on mediation and technical assistance and to introduce the possibility of an urgent procedure to amend annexes i, ii and iiia. taking into account the fundamental rights and principles recognised in the charter of fundamental rights of the european union, in particular respect for and protection of human dignity, the right to life and the prohibition of torture and inhuman or degrading treatment or punishment, i voted to postpone the final vote on the proposal and to refer the report back to the committee responsible.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the draft legislative resolution of the european parliament on the proposal for a council directive amending directive 2011/16/eu as regards the mandatory automatic exchange of information in the field of taxation, as i believe that greater transparency, clarity and efficiency are needed in that area. therefore, the cross-border exchange of information on taxation, i.e. administrative cooperation between member states, is necessary to ensure an efficient internal tax system, as well as one at union level. i believe that the european union should take a leading role at world level in the fight against tax evasion, tax avoidance and tax havens, and i therefore support this report.
written. ‒ aggressive tax planning, tax fraud, tax avoidance and preferential tax treatment with cross-border effects cost the european union €1 000 billion a year. the loss of these resources prevents member states from channelling additional resources to growth drivers. this puts additional strain on work and production and slows down economic growth, development and new employment. the european commission's legislative proposal on the automatic exchange of information between member states in the field of taxation is an important step towards tackling unfair tax practices and promoting fair and transparent tax competition in the european union. the european parliament's proposal, or this report, has considerably improved on the original commission proposal. i supported the report of the european parliament on the mandatory automatic exchange of information in the field of taxation.
written. ‒ i only supported this report because i believe that the system of exchange of information between the tax administrations of the member states is an important instrument for preventing tax evasion and combating fraud. the banking secrecy and personal data protection act is considered an obstacle to its full application. the losses in the member states due to tax evasion amount to €1 trillion a year. at a time when workers' wages are falling, companies are closing and workers are being laid off, at a time when pensions and social benefits are also being reduced, i think it is necessary to allow tax collection, without introducing new taxes and without increasing existing ones. the exchange of information, experience and knowledge between tax administrations of the states is important and will be carried out with a view to strengthening the fight against tax avoidance.
written. ‒ i agree with the report by my colleague marcus ferber on the mandatory automatic exchange of information in the field of taxation. in its resolution of 21 may 2013, the european parliament stressed that the eu should take a leading role in the global debate on the fight against tax fraud and tax avoidance and promote the exchange of information. member states generally do not share their tax arrangements with other countries, which often leaves them unaware of tax arrangements in neighbouring countries that could affect their systems. the lack of transparency in this area results in fraud by companies seeking to reduce their tax payments. it is therefore necessary to increase transparency by introducing a new article in the existing directive specifying the scope and conditions for the mandatory automatic exchange of information on tax rulings. the commission should also be able to assess the compatibility of the aid with the internal market in accordance with article 107 (3) (c) tfeu. the commission should continue to develop a plan for the creation of a central database where all information will be stored.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, but this explanation of vote is a criticism of the existing system of evaluating the work of meps in the european parliament solely on the basis of the statistical number of parliamentary activities promoted in croatia, which does not actually reflect the actual quality and quantity of work, efficiency and above all the success of the representative action.
written. ‒ the draft directive proposes to amend directive 2011/16/eu on administrative cooperation, in order to ensure mandatory automatic exchange of information in the field of taxation with regard to cross-border effects and prior transfer pricing agreements. the challenge posed by cross-border tax avoidance, aggressive tax planning and harmful tax competition has increased significantly in recent years and is considered to be a serious problem both in the union and globally. in particular, decisions on tax incentive structures lead to a low level of taxation of artificially high amounts of income in the country that issued the prior opinion and may lead to an artificial reduction of the amount of taxable income in the other countries involved. i fully support this report as it provides for increased transparency and would give member states and the commission access to all relevant information in order to be able to take action against further illegal practices in the field of tax policy.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the second discharge report on the implementation of the artemis joint undertaking's budget for the financial year 2013, as the annual accounting records are in order and in accordance with the financial rules, while the underlying transactions are legal and regular. progress was also made in the implementation of the action plan and a new methodology was developed to assess the residual error rate. i consider it of considerable importance to establish an internal audit department which contributes to the sound operation of the budget. in addition, the conflict of interest procedures and the principle of transparency have been improved, and i therefore support this report.
the artemis joint undertaking was set up in december 2007 for a period of 10 years to define and implement a research programme for the development of key technologies embedded in computer systems. the ultimate objective is to increase the competitiveness and sustainability of the union and to create new markets. i supported the discharge for the implementation of the budget of artemis for the financial year 2013, as the decision of the european parliament to grant the discharge was taken on the basis of the court of auditors' decision. the court of auditors confirmed the progress made in the implementation of the action plan by artemis, in particular in the area of the internal control, monitoring and reporting system on the protection, dissemination and transfer of research results and the prevention of conflicts of interest.
written. ‒ given that the 2013 annual accounts of the artemis joint undertaking have been found to be in line with the actual business of the undertaking for 2013 and its financial position at the end of the financial year 2013, and given the importance of this undertaking for the r&d of technology initiatives, i support the 2013 discharge for the artemis joint undertaking. in this regard, i welcome the court of auditors' report on the budgetary and financial management of the artemis joint undertaking, i assess positively the efforts undertaken by the artemis joint undertaking following the initial conditional opinion of the court to improve the deficiencies identified by the court which have manifested as progress in the implementation of the action plan, as well as the new error rate assessment methodology developed by the joint undertaking to reduce errors in the audit of financing. i welcome the establishment of the internal audit committee and the database which covers all data which could possibly be linked to conflicts of interest. in view of the decision taken to merge the artemis joint undertaking with the eniac joint undertaking in the joint technology initiative for electronic components and systems for europe's leadership, i consider it of the utmost importance that the operations of the joint undertaking in the period preceding the merger are transparent, in particular in financial terms, and that there is no suspicion of a conflict of interest.
the artemis joint undertaking was established in december 2007 to define and implement a research programme to develop key technologies for embedded computing systems in various fields of application and started to operate autonomously in october 2009. the artemis joint undertaking and the eniac joint undertaking were subsequently merged with the aim of creating the electronic components and systems for european leadership joint technology initiative (ecsel). the joint undertaking has made progress in implementing the action plan aimed at addressing the deficiencies identified by the court of auditors in its conditional opinion, with the national system guarantees being positively assessed for countries representing 54% of the grants awarded, and in particular with regard to ex post and audit strategies, cooperation with national funding authorities and the development of a new methodology for assessing the residual error rate. the commission also noted that the bank's capital needs were not met by the bank's own resources. the average of 211,5 publications and 16,6 patents per eur 10 000 000 of union grants demonstrates the high productivity of the research output of the joint undertaking and its compliance with all the requirements expressed so far by the coordinators of the seventh framework programme, which is why i support the discharge.
written. ‒ i support the report of mr ryszard czarnecki on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the artemis joint undertaking for the financial year 2013, as the court of auditors stated in its report on the annual accounts of the said agency for the financial year 2013 that the financial documentation for 2013 represents its financial position as at 31 december 2013 and that the results of its operations and cash flows for the year ended are in accordance with the provisions of its financial rules. the commission has also received comments from the three sampled exporting producers, which were not represented on the provisional list. i also welcome the fact that the court of auditors, precisely to complement the information obtained by the joint undertaking, has cooperated with the national funding authorities to express its opinion on the legality and regularity of the transactions underlying the accounting records.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, but this explanation of vote is a criticism of the existing system of evaluating the work of meps in the european parliament solely on the basis of the statistical number of parliamentary activities promoted in croatia, which does not actually reflect the actual quality and quantity of work, efficiency and above all the success of the representative action.
written. ‒ taking into account, inter alia, the council's recommendation of 17 february 2015 on discharge to be given to the artemis joint undertaking in respect of the implementation of the budget for the financial year 2013, and its own decision of 29 april 2015 postponing the discharge decision for the financial year 2013, as well as the replies of the executive director of the ecsel joint undertaking (formerly the artemis joint undertaking), the european parliament, in its report, gives the executive director of the ecsel joint undertaking discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the artemis joint undertaking for the financial year 2013 and approves the closure of the accounts of the artemis joint undertaking for the financial year 2013. furthermore, the european parliament notes that the commission will carry out an evaluation to assess the activity of artemis by the date of establishment of the ecsel joint undertaking. i fully support this report.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the second discharge report on the implementation of the budget of the european institute of innovation and technology for the financial year 2013, as the procedures for planning and monitoring the implementation of the budget have been improved. accordingly, public procurement procedures were improved and no irregularities were found and a thorough audit of internal procedures was carried out. the quality of audit certificates received for those transactions concerning grants in 2013 for which final payments were made in 2014 has also been improved. the budgetary and financial management of the institute has been carried out in a lawful and proper manner and i believe that the discharge will allow the institute to continue its work without interruption.
‒ the european parliament has approved the implementation of the budget of the european institute of innovation and technology for the financial year 2013, on the basis of the court of auditors' report. the european institute of innovation and technology (eit) supports technological innovation in research, education and business with the aim of promoting sustainable economic development and competitiveness in europe. although the court of auditors found the audit certificates to be of poor quality, the actual implementation of the eit's budget for the financial year 2013 was supported by improvements in the institute's processes. the institute's budgetary and financial management has been improved, with the implementation of the new budgetary procedure and the implementation of the new budgetary procedure.
written. ‒ as the 2013 annual accounts have been found to be in line with the institute's actual 2013 business and financial position at the end of the financial year 2013, and given the importance of this undertaking for the research and development of technology initiatives, i support the 2013 discharge for the european institute of innovation and technology. in this regard, i welcome the court of auditors' report on the budgetary and financial management of the european institute of innovation and technology and assess positively the efforts made by the european institute of innovation and technology to maintain the quality of research and to achieve the objectives set. i also believe that the eit should be a leader in innovation and new technologies, so that the eu can be competitive in all areas in the face of the growing challenges that are emerging both in europe and globally.
the european institute of innovation and technology is one of the most important bodies of the european union in the field of achieving the objectives of promoting technology and innovation, and it is therefore of the utmost importance that significant progress has been made in its work in the light of the court of auditors' 2013 report. following the finding of poor quality of audit certificates, the court's instructions to the institute resulted in a significant increase in the quality of audit certificates received for grant-related transactions in 2013, a more detailed and consistent methodology for audit certificates was introduced and, in order to provide additional assurance on the legality and regularity of grant transactions, the institute introduced additional ex-post checks on those transactions. the institute also carried out a detailed review of its internal procedures and templates, improved its budget planning and monitoring procedures, mitigated high staff turnover and established an evaluation and reclassification system. the commission's internal audit service confirmed further improvements in the institute's procurement procedures and annual grant award procedure, after which it was determined that 18 out of 25 actions in the action plan had been implemented. the implementation of the remaining seven measures is still ongoing and appears to be successful, which is why i support the discharge.
written. ‒ i support the decision of the european parliament to give discharge to the european institute of innovation and technology for the financial year 2013. as the court of auditors found in its report on the annual accounts of the institute that the quality of audit certificates was poor for around 87% of the expenditure on grants, the institute introduced additional ex post verifications of the grant transactions in order to provide additional assurance as to the legality and regularity of those transactions. in order to address the deficiencies in the quality of audit certificates, the institute improved the instructions to auditors issuing certificates, which resulted in a significant increase in the quality of audit certificates obtained for transactions related to grants. the institute also improved its procurement procedures and adopted a more proactive approach. the commission has also received comments from the applicant, the united kingdom, the united kingdom and the united kingdom on the application of the contested regulation. at the same time, the budget planning and monitoring procedure has been improved, requiring stricter checks on all proposed measures.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, but this explanation of vote is a criticism of the existing system of evaluating the work of meps in the european parliament solely on the basis of the statistical number of parliamentary activities promoted in croatia, which does not actually reflect the actual quality and quantity of work, efficiency and above all the success of the representative action.
written. ‒ having regard to the final annual accounts of the european institute of innovation and technology for the financial year 2013, and the court of auditors' report on the annual accounts of the european institute of innovation and technology for the financial year 2013, together with the institute's replies, the european parliament gives a discharge to the director of the european institute of innovation and technology in respect of the implementation of the institute's budget for the financial year 2013, and authorises the closure of the accounts of the european institute of innovation and technology for the financial year 2013. i fully support this report.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the second discharge report on the implementation of the budget of the eniac joint undertaking for the financial year 2013, as it was found that the budgetary and financial management of the joint undertaking was carried out in a lawful and regular manner. the commission notes that the commission has not provided any information on the amount of the aid granted to the beneficiary. the commission notes that the commission has not provided any evidence that the aid granted to the beneficiary was granted in breach of the state aid rules. however, i consider that it is of particular importance that the company has improved its system for preventing conflicts of interest and increased transparency.
‒ the eniac joint undertaking was established in 2007 for a period of 10 years, with the main purpose of defining and implementing a research programme to develop key knowledge in nanoelectronics. eniac became financially independent in 2010. the european parliament has approved the implementation of the budget of the eniac joint undertaking for the financial year 2013, on the basis of the court of auditors' decision on the reliability of the accounts. as the court of auditors also confirmed eniac's progress in implementing the action plan to correct the errors identified by the court in its conditional opinion, i supported the discharge.
written. ‒ taking into account that the court of auditors has found that the annual accounts of the eniac joint undertaking for the financial year 2013 correspond in all material respects to the situation of the undertaking as at 31 december 2013 and that the financial interests of the undertaking's accounting have in the meantime been collected and made publicly available at that date, i support the discharge for the eniac joint undertaking for the year 2013. in this context, i welcome the court's decision to take further steps to obtain sufficient audit assurances, considering that transparency in the operations of the joint undertaking must be not only its primary interest and objective, but also the guiding principle in every aspect of the operations of the undertaking. in view of the decision to merge the eniac joint undertaking with the artemis joint undertaking in the europe-led electronic components and systems joint technology initiative, i consider it of the utmost importance that the operations of the joint undertaking in the period preceding the merger are transparent, in particular in financial terms, and that there is no suspicion of a conflict of interest. the commission shall be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 26 to supplement this regulation by laying down detailed rules for the application of this regulation.
‒ the eniac joint undertaking was established in 2007 for a period of 10 years to define and implement a 'research programme' to develop key knowledge in nanoelectronics for various application areas. the joint undertaking has established a dedicated and transparent system for the exchange of information on the implementation of the union's macro-financial assistance. it was also found that the contribution of the eniac member states was below the level of 1,8% as required by the statutes of the joint undertaking, with those lower contributions by the member states more than compensating for the increased contributions from the private sector which covered 65% of the total costs. progress has also been made in the development of a methodology for estimating the residual error rate. in view of the above, the eniac joint undertaking is hereby granted discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget. the company has shown that it complies with all the requirements expressed so far by the coordinators of the seventh framework programme, which is why i support the discharge.
written. ‒ in accordance with the facts as stated and the court of auditors' findings confirming that the results of the operations and cash flows for the year ended by the eniac joint undertaking are in accordance with the provisions of its financial and accounting rules adopted by the commission's accounting officer, i support this report. the joint undertaking has established practical ex post audit mechanisms in relation to the administrative agreements it has entered into with the national funding authorities, including the introduction of a specific reporting and evaluation template for national insurance schemes. at the same time, progress was made in the implementation of the action plan and a workshop on safeguards was organised to exchange information and best practices with national reporting bodies, which also brought together representatives of the court, the commission and the internal audit service. it is clear that a number of measures have been taken to address the problems of the joint undertaking and i believe that the measures taken will bring further progress.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, but this explanation of vote is a criticism of the existing system of evaluating the work of meps in the european parliament solely on the basis of the statistical number of parliamentary activities promoted in croatia, which does not actually reflect the actual quality and quantity of work, efficiency and above all the success of the representative action.
written. ‒ taking into account, inter alia, the final annual accounts of the eniac joint undertaking for the financial year 2013, as well as the court of auditors' report on the annual accounts of the eniac joint undertaking for the financial year 2013, together with the replies of the joint undertaking, the european parliament gives a discharge to the executive director of the ecsel joint undertaking in respect of the implementation of the budget of the eniac joint undertaking for the financial year 2013, and authorises the closure of the accounts of the eniac joint undertaking for the financial year 2013. i support this report.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the second discharge report on the implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2013, part ii. european council and council as it refuses to give discharge to the secretary-general of the council in respect of the implementation of the budget. i believe that greater cooperation between the council and the european parliament is needed, in particular in providing the requested information in order to increase transparency and democratic processes. in certain cases, the council's actions undermine the right of eu citizens to access information and i therefore believe that greater openness and clarity are needed in the procedures between the eu institutions.
written. ‒ the european parliament refused to give discharge to the general budget of the eu, namely the european council and the council, for the financial year 2013. the main criticism is the lack of financial transparency and the lack of adequate explanations by the institutions. the open questions also concern reports related to construction projects, to the process of modernising its own administration and its implications for the budget, and to the increase of unused appropriations and transfers made to the 2013 council budget. i supported the rejection of discharge for the implementation of the budget of the european council and the council as i consider that transparency and accountability to citizens are important characteristics and values of the european union, in particular financial transparency.
‒ having regard to the european parliament's decision of 29 april 2015 on discharge in respect of the implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2013, and to the resolution with observations forming an integral part of that decision, and accordingly to the european parliament's decision to postpone the vote on discharge for 2013, i agree that the council must make the same effort in the annual discharge procedure as the other institutions. i also think that the separation of the council's and the european council's budgets is very important, because it can certainly contribute to greater transparency and also to greater accountability for both institutions. it is for those reasons that i have supported this decision rejecting discharge in respect of the implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2013, part ii. european council and council and the accompanying resolution explaining the reason for the discharge. i hope that the message sent by the european parliament will encourage the council and the european council to address the open questions on which the european parliament insists. i would remind you that the third subparagraph of article 15 (3) tfeu provides that each institution, body, office or agency shall ensure the transparency of its activities. parliament only asks that council expenditure be monitored in the same way as that of the other institutions and that the key elements of such monitoring be established over the years.
written. ‒ i support the european parliament's refusal to grant the secretary-general of the council discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european council and of the council, in particular for persisting in non-transparency in finances and in refusing to provide relevant information to the committee on budgets. the council has not provided any explanation for the increases in unused appropriations and carry-overs made in the council's 2013 budget and, by refusing to provide parliament with the requested documents, it is undermining the right of citizens of the union to information and transparency. the council should provide a comprehensive written explanation indicating the total amount of appropriations used for the purchase of the 'résidence palace' and the budgetary items from which those appropriations were transferred, and should publish information on the process of modernising its administration and the expected impact on its budget. the expenditure of the council must be monitored in the same way as that of the other institutions, as provided for in the discharge resolutions of previous years. since parliament is the only body in the union directly elected by the citizens and is responsible for giving discharge in respect of the implementation of the general budget of the european union, it is necessary for it to act in accordance with its mandate in order to maintain transparency and democratic accountability towards the citizens of the european union, its taxpayers.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, but this explanation of vote is a criticism of the existing system of evaluating the work of meps in the european parliament solely on the basis of the statistical number of parliamentary activities promoted in croatia, which does not actually reflect the actual quality and quantity of work, efficiency and above all the success of the representative action.
written. ‒ for the seventh year running, the april plenary session postponed the discharge for the european council and the council, whose rejection is again requested by this report. the rapporteur considers that it is necessary to consider alternative options to update the approval of the discharge provided for in the treaty on the functioning of the european union (tfeu). the commission should also be able to request the european parliament to provide it with information on the progress of the work of the european parliament and the council. the rapporteur regrets that the council has not offered answers to the questions and requests raised in this and previous discharge procedures. i fully support this report.
written. ‒ the 2014 ebola outbreak in west africa was the largest and most complex epidemic of this viral disease in history, affecting many countries and resulting in thousands of cases and deaths. more than 20,000 people have been affected, mainly in guinea, liberia and sierra leone, and the disease has spread from africa to two other continents where isolated cases have been reported. the escalation of the epidemic has not only caused a health crisis that has claimed thousands of lives, but also social and economic pressures and political instability in the affected countries and the wider region. i call on all actors, in particular developing country governments, european institutions and international organisations, to learn from this crisis and develop effective methods to tackle health crises of international scale.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the ebola crisis: long-term lessons and solutions to strengthen health systems in developing countries to prevent future crises, because ebola is a threat that can threaten the international community at national, regional and local levels. the fact is that sierra leone, liberia, and guinea have suffered tremendous hardships from ebola and have experienced significant economic disruption or recession. i therefore believe that targeted, effective and systematic assistance from the international community is needed to help these countries and ultimately contribute to alleviating the crisis. in this context, the european union plays a key role as a global development leader and i therefore support this report.
written. ‒ the health systems of liberia, sierra leone and guinea are marked by numerous shortcomings. before the outbreak, these countries were at the bottom of the un development programme's human development index. the ebola crisis is having an international impact, and its spread can be attributed to political failures in the affected countries, a lack of leadership by the world health organization, and a lack of research and development of drugs. given the scale and severity of the ebola outbreak, there is a need to bring together epidemiology, public health and social sciences to learn from the failures. the parties shall cooperate to ensure that the implementation of the convention is coordinated with the implementation of the convention. in particular, the creation of an emergency programme, the organisation of a reserve staff ready to go on the ground as soon as possible and the provision of a new emergency reserve fund of usd 100 million. it also calls for the establishment of a permanent european rapid reaction service in the event of such outbreaks. i supported the report by representative charles goerence because ebola is a serious and often deadly disease. as we learned from the 2014 outbreak, we need to focus on prevention, but we also need to be ready to act quickly, with the most important step being strengthening health systems in developing countries.
written. ‒ i welcome and support the tone and content of the resolution on the ebola crisis. i think it is important that after each crisis, the causes, consequences and the course of crisis management are analysed in order to be better prepared to face the challenges of the next time. unfortunately, the lessons of the previous outbreak in 2001 were clearly not taken seriously enough. during the last crisis, according to the world health organization in september 2015, about 28 515 people became ill and about 11 313 people died. i welcome the criticism of the slow response of the international community in the first months of the crisis, however, i welcome the mobilisation and commitment of the eu and its member states to help contain the spread of the ebola virus, including the assumption of increased financial commitments by the european union and its member states in the field of humanitarian and development assistance, logistics and research in response to the crisis. i particularly welcome the efforts of scientists in the urgent development of an ebola vaccine that has proven to be highly effective in the territory of guinea. i believe that vaccine should be available in the affected areas of liberia and sierra leone. furthermore, the successful prevention of future crises can only be achieved by organising a system of adequate health care, and i welcome all the efforts that the european union and the member states are making through their institutions in cooperation with the non-governmental sector in this regard.
written. ‒ the numerous european and global crises that have emerged in the meantime have put the ebola problem on the back burner when it comes to public monitoring. but the problem still exists, which is why i am particularly pleased to be discussing this subject and the report i support. with the ebola outbreak in west africa the largest and most complex in the history of the disease, with nearly 500 health workers dying of ebola in guinea, with the exact number of victims of the outbreak almost impossible to estimate, and with many survivors stigmatized in their communities of origin, we need to act. i therefore welcome the 10% increase in the budget of the world health organisation over the next two years to reach usd 4,5 billion and the reforms announced by the director-general of the world health organisation on 18 may 2015, in particular the development of a new emergency programme and the organisation of a world-class emergency response team that can be deployed as soon as possible and the provision of a new emergency reserve fund of usd 100 million. the european union must also make its contribution, both financially and by training experts, to prevent such tragedies in the future in a timely manner.
written. - i agree with the report of my colleague charles goerence on the ebola crisis. the ebola outbreak in west africa has highlighted the lack of resources for local and national health systems in low-income countries to combat the disease, and the ebola outbreak in that region is the largest and most complex in the history of the disease. while the international community was unprepared for the crisis, it welcomes the development of a new vaccine in record time and stresses the need for vaccine availability for all in liberia and sierra leone. the union's contribution to the financing of the european solidarity corps is estimated at eur 5 million. i would also stress the importance of prevention and information campaigns in crisis management, in particular to limit contamination and contain the spread of disease. in this context, the eu development assistance plan should include promoting resilience, health monitoring, the drug supply system, and helping to revive the economies of affected countries. investments in the health sector are essential for developing countries and are an important driver of economic development. long-term planning and support for the introduction of free universal health coverage are needed to build comprehensive health systems. it recalls the importance of strengthening research capacities and providing access to vaccines, and the availability of medicines should not depend on the purchasing power of the patient.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, but this explanation of vote is a criticism of the existing system of evaluating the work of meps in the european parliament solely on the basis of the statistical number of parliamentary activities promoted in croatia, which does not actually reflect the actual quality and quantity of work, efficiency and above all the success of the representative action.
written. ‒ as of march 2014, sierra leone, liberia and guinea are facing the worst ebola crisis ever. this report builds on the experience gained during that crisis. the scale and complexity of the current ebola outbreak pose a real challenge to the three countries whose health and education systems are fraught with structural deficiencies. the ebola crisis has proven to be a systemic problem at local, regional and national levels. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's macro-financial assistance to the countries of central and eastern europe, including the countries of the former soviet union, and to monitor the implementation of the union's macro-financial assistance to the countries of central and eastern europe. i support this report because i believe it will help us to deal with this and similar crises and i believe that the value of the information gained from the experience of this epidemic is invaluable for dealing with similar situations in the future.
written. ‒ the scandal of the fitting of exhaust gas tests is in fact an attack on the health and consumer rights of citizens and the economy of the european union and its member states. the release of nitrous oxide, which is particularly harmful to the liver, lungs and blood counts of citizens, has been considered. they were cheated by selling more expensive cars that were supposedly less harmful to the environment. if it is established that the scandal is not limited to volkswagen vehicles, the consequences for the european automotive industry could be far-reaching. there is hardly a member state that does not produce something that is built into cars. in croatia, a country that doesn't make cars, over 9,000 people work in the auto industry. consumer trust is built over years and lost overnight. it is therefore necessary to carry out a thorough and transparent investigation of the whole case and to set up a new system to measure exhaust gases while driving.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the european parliament resolution on emission measurements in the automotive sector, given that air pollution causes over 430 000 premature deaths in the eu each year and that its health costs are estimated at eur 940 billion per year, and given that this document is directly linked to the recently discovered violations of the us pollution regulations for volkswagen ag, audi ag and the american volkswagen group. it condemns all forms of fraud by car manufacturers; calls for accountability; regrets that consumers have been deceived and highlights the problem of regaining consumer confidence; welcomes other investigations launched in several member states; calls on the commission to adopt and implement a new cycle of real driving tests without delay and to ensure that it is put into effect for regulatory purposes. in particular, the requirement that the commission carry out real-world emission testing for all vehicles type-approved or registered in 2015 in order to ensure the effectiveness of the emission control system is highlighted. the commission is invited, inter alia, to ensure that the information provided to consumers in accordance with the eu vehicle labelling directive (1999/94/ec) is accurate, relevant and comparable.
written. ‒ diesel exhaust is the main source of nitrogen oxides, for which independent analyses carried out last year showed a concentration seven times higher than the limits set under the euro 6 standard. on the other hand, the automotive industry is a key contributor to growth and innovation and employs a large number of workers. it is important to continue the investigations in order to prevent the manipulation of the exhaust emission test results and to ensure the transparency of the investigations. the commission is invited to carry out new tests under real driving conditions and national authorities to apply a zero tolerance level to the so-called 'optimisation of vehicle testing'. the current eu type-approval and roadworthiness system needs to be improved to bring it into line with eu law. i supported the resolution on the protection of human health and ecosystems from the harmful effects of air pollution, as croatia also has air quality categories 2 and 3 in certain urban areas, which are moderately and excessively polluted air.
written. ‒ without prejudice to the final outcome of the investigation, i think it is our duty to ask for a transparent investigation of the entire system of measuring the emissions of products as well as their energy efficiency, regardless of the specific case. in particular, indications that some representatives of the institutions were aware of the deficiencies in the measurement system but failed to react in a timely and appropriate manner should be examined. it is regrettable that serious non-compliance with eu internal market rules has been exposed thanks to the actions of the us authorities. the commission has also taken into account the fact that the union industry is facing a significant increase in the number of new cars sold in the union, which is expected to increase by up to 20% in the near future. in addition to transparently informing consumers about the products they buy, we must ensure that the scandal of manipulation does not result in job losses.
written. ‒ in several eu member states, as well as in other countries, investigations have been opened into vehicle emissions and the manipulation of test results. the commission should be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 290 tfeu concerning the conditions for the authorisation of the placing on the market of vehicles of categories m1 and n1 and the conditions for the authorisation of the placing on the market of vehicles of categories m2 and n3. although diesel cars have lower co2 emissions per kilometre than equivalent petrol vehicles, manufacturers must use available clean technology to reduce various pollutants. it is important to emphasise that european automotive suppliers are world leaders in developing diesel technology, combining fuel efficiency with low co2 emissions, and it is essential that this technology is supported in the future. the commission should be able to verify that the conditions for the granting of the aid are met. i support this report in view of the fact that the automotive sector is a significant contributor to the european economic recovery and therefore the current incident must be investigated and clarified, those responsible found and appropriate action taken.
written. - the epa and carb investigations established that the vw group violated pollution regulations by falsifying emissions figures. as many as 11 million diesel vehicles with defective equipment have been sold since 2009, of which as many as 9 million belong to the european market. the commission should be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 290 tfeu concerning the conditions for the authorisation of the placing on the market of products of animal origin and the conditions for the authorisation of the placing on the market of products of animal origin and the conditions for the authorisation of the placing on the market of products of animal origin. i did not vote in favour of the resolution on emission measurements in the automotive sector. detailed steps are needed to strengthen the eu strategy for sustainable, resource-efficient systems for use in road and all other modes of transport. volkswagen group vehicles are the best-selling in croatia, and the government of the republic of croatia alone purchased 1500 vehicles last year, of which 1423 were volkswagen group. croatia has ordered the contested vehicles through public procurement and has been unavoidably harmed by false information in the selection of vehicles and the amount of emissions. the state budget suffers daily immense damage, the extent of which is not even possible to estimate at the moment, because the costs paid to the budget represent a number of times less than the actual emissions of the vehicle.
‒ on 18 september 2015, the us environmental protection agency (epa) and the california air resources board (carb) issued a notice of infringement of pollution regulations to volkswagen ag, audi ag and the american volkswagen group (collectively known as vw), resulting in an investigation following research into the emissions of nitrogen oxides (nox) from diesel vehicles conducted by a non-governmental association in collaboration with university researchers. the european parliament strongly condemns all forms of fraud by car manufacturers and calls on companies to take full responsibility for their actions and to cooperate fully with the competent authorities in the context of investigations, and regrets the fact that millions of consumers have been deceived and misled by false information about the emissions of their vehicles. the commission therefore calls on the member states to adopt and implement without delay a new real-world emission test cycle and to ensure its entry into force for regulatory purposes. i support this report because i believe that better regulation of emissions is needed to better protect both the rights of consumers and the environment itself.
mr president, when i spoke a year ago, when we talked about trusting the commission and what the commission should do, i was absolutely in favour of it and firmly convinced that only the recovery of the european economy, big investment in smes, the juncker fund and all that makes up tackling unemployment will determine the future of the commission and determine the future and success of our parliamentary term. however, there's a migrant crisis, and i want to be absolutely clear. today, the migrant crisis is challenging europe. this is what the slovenian prime minister said, who is deeply european-minded, but is aware of the fact that europe's citizens react very differently to the migrant crisis. i therefore ask the european commission to take the utmost account of the need to finance all that is happening around migrants, both in the member states and in non-member countries, namely the countries of the western balkans.
mr president, ms mogherini, i first of all welcome the signing of the juba peace agreement in august between the south sudanese government forces and rebel groups, which was supposed to end the 20 months of armed conflict in the youngest african country. however, security tensions following the signing of the agreement across the country, including the capital, remain a concern and are affecting the distribution of humanitarian aid. the eu has also been involved in the negotiations with the countries of the former soviet union, including the countries of the former soviet union, the former soviet union and the former soviet union. decisions on the structure of the state can only be made through political dialogue between opposing parties. in the months ahead, the key tasks for south sudan are reconstruction, transition, and the enhancement of democratic institutions, with the immediate priority of maintaining peace, addressing the very difficult humanitarian situation, and adequately addressing the other challenges of this post-conflict society. an effective system of prosecution of the most serious war crimes, of combating organised crime and of providing assistance to victims of sexual violence and the military exploitation of children is needed. in this context, the union must support the full implementation of the peace agreement and contribute strategically to the construction of this weak state in line with all international criteria. 300 million euros in humanitarian aid is crucial through 2015, and with 4 million more people undernourished, 2 million displaced, and two-thirds of the population dependent on humanitarian aid, i think we, together with the african union and other organizations, need to make an additional contribution to the international humanitarian disaster in south sudan.
madam high commissioner, you have our full support for what you are doing, but i really do urge you to focus on two key points. one is to punish all criminals. from the area of europe where there was a recent war just over 20 years ago, where i come from, i know what it means to punish criminals, to drive out justice, because those who have abused women, those who have abused children and those who have committed war crimes, they really need to be brought to justice. and the second is what we're doing anyway, but obviously we have to make an extra effort. the question is whether 300 million euros is enough, obviously not. humanitarian aid is really the key thing that we expect you to do at this point to make sure that it really reaches every person in south sudan that needs and expects humanitarian aid.
vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy.– mr president, i promise i will be less passionate, but not because i care less – on the contrary, because one has to be reasonable enough not to overstate the case, and also because i really appreciate the debate we have had here this evening. i have found it helpful in relation to the work we have to do. on the one hand – conscious of the fact that we have a role to play in this crisis, but that our role is very much in support of and in coordination with the regional players, starting with the african union – i completely agree with all of you who mentioned the work with regional and international players as the strong point of our action in this crisis. there are two sides to the task. firstly, the humanitarian side needs to remain the focus of our work: we have a responsibility, as by far the leading humanitarian contributor in the crisis, and again i would underline the need to keep our attention focused on humanitarian refugee crises that are apparently far away from our borders. moreover, this is not only a matter of moral responsibility and human responsibility, it is also a matter of investment in stability and in the future for a large part of the world’s population. secondly, on the political track, with regard to the implementation of the agreement, i would point out that this is an agreement signed under difficult circumstances, in a very fragile situation. as i said in my opening statement, the international community must continue, and we must continue, to support the people of south sudan as the implementation of the peace process begins. more than anything, the leaders of the country have to exercise full responsibility. on both sides – as many of you mentioned – there are spoilers. there are interests opposing the agreement, and they must be told loud and clear that if they do not implement the agreement they will be held responsible for the consequences of their actions. that message has to come clearly and in unison from all of us. only a concerted effort by political leaders will bring an end to the suffering of the people in south sudan and enable them to live in peace. i believe the signing of the agreement offers space and an opportunity for that, but implementation is, as we can see, extremely difficult. our work with our african partners is pushing in this direction.
the reporter. mr president, on 30 june 2006 we founded the adriatic euroregion in pula, pola, istria, croatia. the 27 adriatic and ionian regions have jointly decided to cooperate because they saw a common future in cooperation in the adriatic and ionian sea. in 2010, these same regions proposed to the committee of the regions the european union strategy that we wanted to have in the adriatic, modelled on the baltic strategy and later on the danube strategy. in 2015, so a decade after that, the italian presidency launched the strategy for the adriatic and ionian sea and today we have this strategy that we are discussing. we have four member countries that are part of that strategy, italy, slovenia, croatia and greece, and we have four countries that are candidate countries. these are serbia, montenegro and albania and the potential candidate country bosnia and herzegovina. this just shows how important this strategy is and how partial and complicated it is because of course it is also a kind of laboratory for non-eu countries and for their entry into the european union. however, this strategy has four pillars. it knows the infrastructure pillar, as one of the key pillars coordinated by italy and serbia, and here i want to emphasise the particular importance i attach to connecting the region. there is no doubt that we need corridors like the adriatic-ionian corridor, both the one in the western part, which is practically in italy, and the one in the eastern part, which goes in a way from trieste to igumenica, and on to athens. we also need a link that goes from west to east and east to west, from the iberian peninsula that joins the apennines and then the balkans. the second important pillar is tourism and here i want to highlight the problem of the short seasonality of our tourism where it is precisely culture, agriculture and many other new products that can solve this seasonality that we talk about in our strategy. blue growth, shipbuilding is almost forgotten. let's get back to the shipbuilding. shipbuilding is a good european industry and i think we need to talk about it. and of course, aquaculture as we know it in the adriatic and ionian seas. the fourth pillar is environmental protection. we're all very sensitive to the environment. we all care that our adriatic and our ionian sea are clean seas and that we protect them as much as possible from exploitation, especially as we can foresee at this moment in some way. in the future, we must do everything to protect our adriatic. what i want to highlight at this point is the fact that the very area that this eu strategy is talking about is the area where we are facing the problem of migrants and refugees. and i want to thank in a way all those individuals, ordinary citizens who are helping us to overcome this great crisis, this difficult situation. of course, in this context, all the countries involved are extremely important and extremely important, and it is good that juncker has called this meeting of his in brussels, because it was important that the refugee problem be discussed at this level as well. i repeat, the western balkans are also showing how important they are to the european union, and that is why i urge us all to think seriously about how we will embrace the western balkans and all the countries that are not yet members into our society called the european union. finally, i would like to thank all the colleagues with whom i have collaborated on this strategy, on this report, and i hope to continue our cooperation soon.
member of the commission. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, thank you, it is a pleasure for me to be here tonight. i would also like to thank the rapporteur, mr ruas, mr blanco lópez and mr jakovčić, for the three important reports we are discussing today. i also thank mr omarjee for his comments on simplification. as you know, this commission was appointed with a clear mandate to work towards a new start for europe, based on ten major political priorities, and of course the european structural and investment funds are actively contributing to many of these priorities, as reflected in the three reports we are discussing today: the europe 2020 review, good economic governance and the current state of play of the eu strategy for the adriatic and ionian region. let me start by talking briefly about these reports, and then i'll talk about the simplification process that we're currently going through. firstly, mr ruas' report, the eu 2020 strategy; the strategy addresses five specific objectives in the following areas: employment, innovation, climate change and energy sustainability, education, and the fight against poverty and social exclusion. unfortunately, the consequences of the economic crisis, such as rising unemployment and a very slow economic recovery, have been a real obstacle to the achievement of these objectives. in this context, the commission has started a process of reflection on the future of this strategy. last year we launched a public consultation which showed that the europe 2020 strategy and its objectives are still very relevant, but that we still have a long way to go to achieve our proposed goals. i would like to welcome the suggestions of mr ruas, the rapporteur, on improving the knowledge and the need for local and regional authorities, member states and all stakeholders to take responsibility for the 2020 strategy, and i would certainly urge you to continue to mobilise national parliaments in this regard. with regard to the report by mr blanco lópez on sound economic governance, i would like to reaffirm the european commission's full commitment to act strictly within the framework provided for in article 23 of the regulation on the common provisions for these funds. these provisions were established with the aim of increasing the efficiency of european funds and, in this context, the partnership agreements and operational programmes have already been designed in accordance with the country-specific recommendations. the european commission will therefore only use its rescheduling powers where this can have a real impact on the implementation of the country-specific recommendations. in the same vein, i would like to remind you that last week the commission's communication on the next steps towards completing europe's economic and monetary union was adopted. as i have said before in this chamber, if one of the conditions for a possible suspension of the structural and investment funds is met, the european commission will inform parliament immediately, and i fully agree with mr blanco lópez on this point. as regards the adriatic-ionian macro-regional strategy, i am pleased to say that this is the third macro-regional strategy of the european union. almost exactly a year ago i was present in milan for the launch of this strategy. she was adopted last year. it aims to promote sustainable economic and social prosperity in the region and to contribute to the integration of the western balkan countries into the european union, and i welcome your report, mr jakovčić, which includes several valuable recommendations set out in detail. i would like to take this opportunity to remind you that we, the european commission, are ready to help implement the strategy, but to ensure its success, a few conditions are necessary. first, the participating countries should take responsibility and firm commitment in support of this strategy by allocating sufficient resources, administrative resources. secondly, national and regional policies, investment plans and funds allocated must be in line with the objectives of the strategy and thirdly, civil society must be effectively involved in the process of implementing the strategy, as well as national and regional parliaments. you also raised the possibility that these macro-regions could contribute more to addressing and mitigating the refugee crisis. i want to tell you that i really think we can exploit more the extent to which these macro-regions can contribute to this issue. i would just like to inform you in connection with this that together with the auditors, we have made a list of possibilities from the regional development funds, what kind of projects can be made from the regional development funds for the accommodation of refugees, for mobile hospitals, sanitation facilities, for bringing water, in the medium and long term, and i want to reassure you that we are considering any proposal coming from the member states, but it is indeed the obligation of the member states to send us to what extent they think it is necessary to change the financial allocations for this purpose. so far, we have only received one request from italy and already 220 million euro has been redirected from the regional development fund to finance migrant accommodation centres and coastguards. in any event, i sent a letter to all the european fund ministers last week informing them of these possibilities. on simplification, i would like to assure you all, and in particular mr omarjee, who raised this issue, that it is a common concern of us, the european parliament and the european commission, and we want, as you do, to ensure the effective and efficient management of european funds. simplifying the funds is one of the commission's objectives for better regulation and a results-oriented budget of the european union. the high level group on simplification was set up, as you said, precisely for this purpose, and has started to work and make recommendations for concrete actions that can maximise the potential for simplification in the current programming period. as you mentioned in your question for oral answer, i can confirm that the high level group will be looking at e-cohesion, access to finance for smes, which i think is a very important topic, cost simplification and excessive regulation, what we call the phenomenon of goldplating at national level. you know very well that there are projects where 20-30 signatures are needed, but this is not a request from the european commission. but i believe that successful simplification depends equally on the commitment of member states to simplify their own nationally imposed rules. i would like to continue our cooperation with the european parliament. as you know, the regi commission was represented at the first meeting of the high level group by a vice-president and we will of course keep parliament informed of the work of the high level group on a regular basis. i would also like to take this opportunity to invite you to think together, in the coming period, about reforming this cohesion policy, reforming post 2020. i think that this debate should start as early as next year. thank you for your attention and i look forward to your debate and comments.
the rapporteur for the opinion of the afet committee. mr president, i would like to begin by thanking mr jakovčić for such a good report, with which i have had the opportunity to work since 2006, when we founded the adriatic euroregion. we were in a completely different function then, in local, regional self-government. this strategy for the adriatic-ionian macro-region aims to enable the 70 million inhabitants of this region to benefit from closer cooperation in areas such as promoting the maritime economy, preserving the marine environment, completing transport and energy networks and promoting sustainable tourism. it is worth noting today that this is the first european union macroeconomic strategy with such a large number of non-eu countries, such as serbia, montenegro, albania, which are candidates, and bosnia and herzegovina, as a potential candidate, cooperating with member states such as croatia, greece, italy and slovenia. the question of the former yugoslav republic of macedonia and kosovo remains undefined. in the opinion i drafted on behalf of the foreign affairs committee, i placed particular emphasis on the transport connectivity of the countries involved in road and rail infrastructure projects, including the adriatic-ionian corridor and thus the pelješac bridge in southern croatia, with the aim of reducing the differences and shortcomings in the infrastructure of these countries. finally, i hope that the strategy will be implemented as soon as possible, given that mrs cretu, on behalf of the commission, has expressed the wish that it should be implemented as soon as possible.
the following is the list of the clubs that have been awarded the contracts: madam president, i would like to welcome and congratulate mr jakovčić on his comprehensive report and the quality of the results of the negotiations. the european approach based on macro-regional cooperation is more cost-effective and effective than the 28 national approaches and this report is of particular importance, as it recognises and highlights the importance of macro-regional strategies as a tool for european integration and an example of cross-border cooperation to achieve territorial cohesion in areas that share common challenges. the union's macro-financial assistance shall be implemented in accordance with the union's macro-financial assistance programmes. to maximise the potential, cooperation between macro-regions is needed. only in this way will we optimally achieve the fundamental objectives of any macro-regional strategy. the optimal exploitation of the potential of renewable energy sources and transport connectivity within the macro-region itself contribute to those objectives. it is necessary to provide intermodal infrastructure to connect countries and develop energy, but we must also take into account environmental protection and the sustainability of individual projects. i am extremely pleased with the compromise reached where my amendment regarding exploration and exploitation of oil and gas in the adriatic, especially in areas of high environmental risk, has been respected. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's macro-financial assistance to the countries of central and eastern europe, in particular through the european neighbourhood instrument (eni) and the european neighbourhood instrument (eni) and the european neighbourhood instrument (enif).
madam high commissioner, while recognising the importance of all the reports under discussion, i would nevertheless like to highlight in particular the creation of a third european macro-region. the adriatic-ionian strategy covers four member states and four countries aspiring to full membership of the european union. they can and should be helped on their european integration path by a project like this. macro-financial disparities in economic development between eu member states and non-eu member states are large. the transport infrastructure of these others is poorly developed. the project of the adriatic-ionian motorway is currently being implemented by croatia alone. i hope that the european union will soon stimulate the project, because alongside political connectivity, we need to develop transport routes as well as energy corridors. the eu has also been active in the fight against terrorism, and has been involved in the development of a number of international security instruments. the implementation of the strategy should involve all stakeholders in a transparent and inclusive manner in order to promote social cohesion, economic development and environmental sustainability. if successful, the adriatic-ionian strategy will contribute to the further integration of the internal market and the stability of the region, which is in the interest of all eu member states.
madam president, i welcome the commissioner and thank all my colleagues for the excellent reports and messages on the importance of cohesion policy for the daily lives of our citizens. in addition to investment and development, cohesion policy has many other added values that help to strengthen the european union. cohesion policy brings together european and national policies, guiding us towards reforms, strengthening the single market, partnership, cooperation, modernisation, transparent public administration and good economic governance. we therefore have an obligation to do our utmost together to make cohesion policy work in practice and achieve its objectives. we must do everything to ensure that there is no decommitment and that we implement projects successfully and quickly. hundreds of pages of instructions, too many different rules for each of the programmes, keep cohesion policy away from our citizens, young people, entrepreneurs, non-profit organisations, scientists. they ask me, they ask all of us, is your goal that we use these funds and realize ideas, why are the eu tender conditions the most complicated and least adapted to our needs? i therefore call on the commission and on all of us to speed up simplification, to help all countries more in securing national funding, to consider how to achieve a higher level of coordination and coherence of cohesion policy with all eu policies and also to help the implementation of macro-regional strategies.
member of the commission. i have listened very carefully to your comments and questions and i would like to refer briefly to the reports. the report by mr ruas, the eu 2020 strategy and discussions on the europe 2020 strategy and a long-term vision of it are ongoing. last month, the european commission organised a college orientation debate and is currently in the process of collecting input from stakeholders and of course the report is an important contribution to this. i want to assure you, regarding your question of whether you will receive the answers by 2020 that, of course, it is a joke. you'll get them as soon as possible. as regards the report by mr blanco lópez, as i mentioned earlier in my presentation, i would like to confirm that we will apply the powers of the reprogramming committee only under the current regulation; you know very well that this has been voted by the european parliament and the council as co-legislators, and of course we will be in constant contact, as the european commission, with the european parliament. in connection with mr jakovčić's report on the adriatic-ionian strategy, i would like to emphasise in particular one aspect that was addressed by mr jakovčić: if we want to have results within the objectives proposed by the strategy, then the firm commitment and responsibility of all stakeholders is absolutely necessary. i'd like to make a few more comments, because there's been a lot of discussion and i really appreciate all the input. i would like to tell mr bogovič that we are aware of the enormous challenge facing the member states in relation to slovenia. i think slovenia is doing remarkably well in the current situation, and the summit on sunday was really an exercise in solidarity between countries facing this unique situation, and i would also like to congratulate the national authorities, the local authorities, the population, for this effort. the european commission is available to all member states to help and to see how we can contribute to having synergies between the regional development fund, we are working closely with mrs thyssen, with the social fund and also with mr avramopoulos, who is responsible for the asylum and migration fund. i particularly wanted to make this point because slovenia is a small country that fortunately is doing remarkably well with this problem. a lot of the speakers, a lot of the colleagues, raised the issue of bureaucracy. it is indeed a big problem. i'd like everyone who can contribute to come up with proposals. as i said at the beginning, i think we will have to talk about what cohesion policy will look like after 2020, because now we have this regulation, which is sometimes very complicated, but we have to do everything we can and, for this programming period, maximize the impact of european funds. i do not agree with those who say that cohesion policy is a transfer or a charity, it is an exercise in solidarity, which translates into a lot of visible things and hundreds of jobs, and i would link this to the example of greece which was raised by several speakers, mr papadimoulis. greece is the country where we can see this contribution of cohesion policy in practice. mr epitideios asked me how cohesion policy could create jobs. i want to tell you that cohesion policy has created hundreds of thousands of jobs in greece since 1981, since greece is a member of the european union, and you can see in any of the regions of greece motorways made with european money. we have done more than a thousand kilometres in five regions of greece, not a single kilometre was done without european funds: highways, roads, schools, bridges, like the one that connects peloponnese to mainland greece. so the results of cohesion policy are visible in greece and, as you know, i have personally come to the regi commission to adopt the exceptional measures. i believe that now, with this 100% co-financing for greece, there is no longer any excuse for unblocking major projects such as the thessaloniki metro or waste management projects, because, as you know, after you approved these exceptional measures in the european parliament and they were also approved by the council, greece has received this injection of liquidity, so i congratulate you once again on all the reports. i would just like to add that i am very grateful for the european parliament's support and contribution to the simplification agenda and i would like to assure members that the commission will continue its dialogue with the parliament, the committee of the regions and other stakeholders because in fact it is a common goal and our common goal is to have effective implementation. this is the most important thing. we have done all the regulation but implementation in many cases in most of the cases is 100% the responsibility of member states.
the reporter. madam commissioner, i want to tell you right from the start that there are high expectations from you. you are a woman who knows this macro-region well and i know that our cooperation so far has been going in the direction that is favourable to this macro-region and i would also like to thank you for the first funds that have already been allocated through the adrion programme, 118 million euros, for the development of macro-regional cooperation and for the implementation of the adriatic-ionian strategy. i believe that's a good start. however, our expectations are far higher. our expectations when we talk about structural, or cohesion policy, are extremely high, you yourself mentioned greece at this moment, but other countries also have a need for what you can do for those countries and for the whole macro-region. i also want to point out that perhaps the key fundamental problem that i see in the future is who will be the owner, how will we solve the ownership of this macro-regional strategy and macro-regional strategies in general. that is a key issue, because after we adopt this report, after all we have done together, how will we manage the processes going forward. in that context, i think we have to decide very, very precisely, because we leave everything to the states. i think that the commission should be able to take the initiative in this area, and i think that the commission should be able to take the initiative in this area. we've seen this recently when we talk about the refugee crisis. so i would like to ask you to think carefully together about how we will lead this process in the future so that this macro-regional strategy, and of course all the others, will have their success at the end of this whole political process.
mr. president, today's vote will solve one problem, and that is the bad and unworkable gmo food regulation proposal that would cause chaos in the internal market. the basic purpose of allowing member states to ban the sale of gmo food would not be fulfilled and it is therefore good that a large majority in parliament will be against it. but the problem of the unfair system of approving gmo food remains. the commission has also concluded that the use of the additive in food is not a new development and that the use of the additive in food is not a new development. in conclusion, i would like to tell the european commission that the rejection of this proposal does not relieve them of their obligation to democratize the approval process. this was one of the promises of president juncker and that is why we want the commission to come up with a new, better proposal. it is a subject of vital importance to our citizens and a promise that is central to the democratic legitimacy of the european union.
madam president, first of all i would like to thank the rapporteur and all those who took part in the trialogue, the council, the commission and the committee on the environment and food safety. anyway, after 18 years, new rules were needed, and that's clear to everyone. technology has advanced. today we simply have to make new rules. of course there are some doubts, but doubts we'll never get rid of, but that's why we've included science. and that's why i'm advocating that the fda be fully involved. i think it's much better if it's centralized to get the authorization for the reason that each country would probably have its own rules. we have been trying all along to unify the 28 legislative bodies, to have the same rules and to have a common market, and i am in favour of this first point. also, simplifying getting evaluated, but also speeding it up. it refers to one month from the moment the application for authorisation is submitted and i think that's a good suggestion. the definition of nanomaterials is also included in this proposal, but is also subject to further amendments. as science advances, so does the need for further explanation. i simply, and as a member of the envi committee where we unanimously supported this proposal, want to support this proposal in the hope that we will also allow traditional markets, or traditional products, to come to our european market.
madam president, the novel food regulation is an important piece of legislation that should govern the process of authorising and controlling a new food on the european union market. it should raise the level of consumer safety and regulate the functioning of the internal market. in short, if our citizens want to eat grasshoppers or exotic berries, these products must be health-approved and safe, but also approved under a uniform procedure. these goals were arguably met, but the final document did not include regulations on the meat of cloned animals and definitions of nano-food that would close potential legal loopholes. that can still be corrected this afternoon at the vote, but it remains to be seen how the majority in parliament will stand. we have an opportunity to pass a good law that will benefit our citizens and businesses, and it would be a shame to miss this opportunity.
madam president, the key question in this debate is not whether people will enjoy insects, whether they will enjoy algae, whether they will eat products made with nanotechnology, but whether these products will be safe and secondly, more importantly, whether consumers will know what they are eating. i personally don't like eating meat from cloned animals. i'm very skeptical about gmo food and anything that has to do with gmo and animal cloning, but i'm not against research, just as i'm not against research in this case, but i'm for it, and it has to be our obligation, to tell consumers what they're going to encounter when they buy a product. what product is that? what's in that product? what is the product made of and what reactions can occur when such a product is used? that's the key to this discussion.
madam president, i agree that it is crucial to modernise the existing regulation on novel foods in a way that reflects technological and scientific advances with the aim of better protecting the health of citizens. however, this proposal for a regulation contains several positive changes, among which i would particularly highlight the centralised authorisation procedure which will reduce administrative burdens and unnecessary additional costs. however, as the primary objective of the revision of this regulation is to ensure food safety, i cannot support its adoption on the basis of the precautionary principle. the inclusion of foods consisting of engineered nanomaterials is unacceptable as the current knowledge on them does not allow to assess the risk to human health and there is no clear definition at european level. in conclusion, in order to safeguard the health of the citizens of the european union, we need to support more strongly traditional food production, but in a sustainable way, rather than knowingly allowing the consumption of products of questionable quality with a risk to consumers.
the commission should also be able to provide information on the impact of the directive on the environment and on the health and safety of workers. the fact that we cannot ignore is that the health costs of pollution in the european union amount to several hundred billion euros a year. member states often forget to mention the indirect costs of air pollution in their calculations. pm are a major problem, mostly caused by emissions from transport and energy, and it is estimated that pm concentrations in ozone are responsible for an excess of tens of thousands of premature deaths in the european union. member states have enough tools to use in reducing emissions that european funds provide them with, and i support the proposal that the commission establish a clean air fund to ensure that funding procedures are simple, transparent and available to different levels of governance, all for a purpose that they can use to improve air quality.
the reporter. mr president, (the member began in italian) paragraph 58 please only include: including the southern extension of the adriatic-ionian dorsalˮ. this was agreed with the s&ds, the epp and others. (the president spoke in italian) okay, then i'll say it again. i ask you to accept this oral amendment to paragraph 58 which goes to include the southern extension of the adriatic-ionian dorsal. please accept that.
written. ‒ the draft budget proposal that came from the committee responsible highlights and acknowledges two key issues: the migration crisis and the need to increase the eu's competitiveness. as the budget rapporteur for the gender equality committee, i support this proposal.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the draft general budget of the european union for 2016 - all parts because the draft in question is in line with the challenges facing the european union, primarily the refugee and migrant crisis. the year ahead will be particularly demanding because of the pressing problems for which the union must find adequate solutions as soon as possible, and, apart from the refugee crisis, i would remind you that the agricultural crisis is also a major challenge. it is therefore important to ensure budgetary flexibility in order to address those situations as quickly and efficiently as possible, but also to ensure preparedness for unforeseen situations. it is important to emphasise that funding for the main union policies and priorities is not being suspended and that an adequate framework has been built to boost growth, employment and finance for smes, although some programmes and activities have been partially neglected. however, although with some shortcomings and deficiencies, this draft represents a balanced and consistent budgetary plan which i support.
written. ‒ the draft budget of the european union for 2016 was adopted with the priorities of job creation, economic growth, investment and a new migration policy in mind. it provides for an increase to eur 157,4 billion in commitment appropriations and eur 146,4 billion in payment appropriations. i supported parliament's proposal as this increase is important to allow additional funding for development projects in the field of quality employment, entrepreneurship and the development of smes, but also to strengthen existing instruments in response to the current migration crisis.
written. ‒ the 2016 draft budget is the first eu budget prepared in the light of the political guidelines of commission president juncker, which represent a new roadmap for europe for jobs, development, justice and democratic change, notably through the european fund for strategic investments (efsi). the 2016 budget supports solidarity between member states and others in the region through the european structural and investment fund and helps young people in education and employment through the youth employment initiative. the amount of assigned revenue in accordance with article 21 (3) of the financial regulation is estimated at eur 100000. the commission's draft budget for 2016 reflects the 10 political priorities of the juncker plan. the commission notes that the commission has not provided any information on the amount of the aid granted to the beneficiary. the payment appropriations (including special instruments) amount to eur 143 541,5 million, corresponding to 0,98% of gni. the commission shall be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 26 to supplement this regulation by laying down detailed rules for the application of this regulation. the commission notes that the commission has not provided any information on the number of employees in the union.
written. ‒ i support this year's balanced draft budget for the next year, which seeks to regulate and equalize the income-expenditure ratio, as well as to provide for the resources of outstanding claims that have not been paid. as i come from croatia, one of the countries on the migration route that is actively and responsibly responding to the refugee crisis, i particularly welcome the funds allocated exclusively for this purpose, for greece, the european fund for strategic investments and the funding of the youth employment initiative. the s&d group and the epp have worked together to allocate €1.326 billion to two important programmes: horizon 2020 and the connecting europe facility, as well as a number of other programmes aimed at boosting growth, competitiveness and employment. in the area of economic, social and territorial cohesion, the adoption of an amendment to increase the youth employment initiative's resources by eur 473 million is particularly commendable, and in the area of sustainable development and natural resources, an emergency support package for dairy producers was approved. the s&d group is proud to have secured an increase over the commission's draft for external development policy, humanitarian aid, the european instrument for democracy and human rights and other important development programmes.
written. ‒ the eu budget is primarily an investment budget that serves as a catalyst for growth, competitiveness and jobs across the union. by pooling resources and economies, it facilitates the implementation of programmes and projects that would otherwise be difficult or even impossible to implement and guarantees strategic investment in projects with european added value. the european structural and investment funds make up the largest share of the eu budget's investment expenditure, and they are crucial for creating jobs, increasing growth and improving competitiveness and innovation. the proposed investment plan and the eu budget are interlinked and complementary through the european semester, and together aim to stimulate economic recovery and job creation. however, in the plenary i expressed my abstention. while i welcome the investment plan put forward by the commission which could mobilise €315 billion for investment in infrastructure, education and research, and in small and medium-sized enterprises and midcaps to reduce the deficit of public and private investment caused by the economic and financial crisis, the development disparities between the different regions of the eu are increasing. the commission should also be able to provide the necessary information to the member states and the commission on the implementation of the budget.
written. ‒ i supported this report because i believe that the budget reflects the political priorities adopted by the majority in previously adopted resolutions. the commission should also be able to provide the necessary support to the member states in the implementation of the union's external action programmes. the union is facing a number of serious crises such as the migration and refugee crisis and it is necessary to provide the necessary financial means to address current challenges in order to enable the union to urgently find solutions and respond effectively to those crises, which should be its priority. of course, it goes without saying that the migration and refugee crisis cannot be solved by financial means alone. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's macro-financial assistance to the countries of central and eastern europe, in particular the countries of the former soviet union, the former soviet union and the former soviet union. i also support the decision to transfer the 2015 emergency appropriations to the 2016 budget and to use these unused appropriations to reimburse the beneficiaries of direct payments as provided for in regulation (eu) no 1306/2013.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the european parliament's motion for a resolution on the council position on the draft general budget of the european union for the financial year 2016, as i consider that the said budget is in line with the political priorities of the union. one of the key aspects of the budget for next year is of course the migration and refugee crisis and i therefore fully agree to increase the funds for this purpose, because exceptional circumstances require exceptional measures. accordingly, i also support the urgent support measures aimed at the crisis affecting european farmers and having a significant impact on the eu economy as a whole. the commission should be able to request the payment of the union contribution to the european agricultural guarantee fund (eagf) for the period from 1 january 2015 to 31 december 2016. the financing of smes must be given a prominent place in the budget as they are the same drivers of growth and should be supported in their access to markets. furthermore, given that the implementation of programmes in the area of cohesion policy is likely to be delayed, it is necessary to try to minimise the delay as the policy in question is particularly important for the balanced growth of the union. in addition, i believe that the union's budget should be more flexible in order to be able to respond in a timely and effective manner to the external and internal crises that are increasingly present.
written. ‒ the 2016 draft budget is based on key priorities defined at eu level: job creation, economic growth, investment and new migration policies. the commission proposes in the draft budget for 2016 a total of eur 153,5 billion for commitments and eur 143,5 billion for payments, representing an increase of 2,4% for commitments and 1,6% for payments compared to 2015. the parliament proposed an increase to eur 157,4 billion for commitments and eur 146,4 billion for payments. i supported parliament's proposal as this increase is important to allow additional funding for development projects in the field of quality employment, entrepreneurship and the development of smes, but also to strengthen existing instruments in response to the current migration crisis.
written. ‒ taking into account that a strategy to secure jobs, development and investment is a key priority for the 2016 budget proposal in the light of the juncker plan, the proposed increased budgetary allocation is justified but also necessary to accelerate the pace of investment. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's macro-financial assistance to the countries of central and eastern europe, in particular through the european neighbourhood policy. the eu budget is a means of fostering internal solidarity by supporting economic, social and territorial cohesion, but also an instrument of external solidarity used to provide emergency assistance during humanitarian and civil crises. i personally supported the amendments relating to the implementation of a pilot project to establish a european award for rural women, the establishment of a fund for the restructuring of the sugar industry, the establishment of a single seat for parliament and increased investment in the search for missing children.
written. ‒ as the budget committee report shows, the european parliament's successes in opposing the council's proposals for severe cuts and under-allocation of funds to finance key eu programmes are commendable. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's macro-financial assistance to the countries of central and eastern europe, including the countries of the western balkans, the former yugoslav republic of macedonia, the former yugoslav republic of macedonia, the former yugoslav republic of macedonia, the former yugoslav republic of macedonia, the former yugoslav republic of macedonia, the former yugoslav republic of macedonia, the former yugoslav republic of macedonia, the former yugoslav republic of macedonia, the former yugoslav republic of macedonia, the former yugoslav republic of macedonia, the former yugoslav republic of macedonia, the former yugoslav republic of macedonia, the former yugoslav republic of macedonia, the former yugoslav republic of macedonia, the former yugoslav republic of macedonia, the former yugoslav republic of macedonia, the former yugoslav republic of macedonia, the former yugoslav republic of macedonia, the former yugoslav republic of macedonia, the former yugoslav republic of macedonia, the former yugoslav republic of macedonia, the former yugoslav republic of macedonia, the former yugoslav republic of macedonia and the former yugoslav republic of macedonia. the s&d group and the epp have worked together to allocate €1.326 billion to two important programmes: horizon 2020 and the connecting europe facility, as well as a number of other programmes aimed at boosting growth, competitiveness and employment. in the area of economic, social and territorial cohesion, the adoption of an amendment to increase the youth employment initiative's resources by eur 473 million is particularly commendable, and in the area of sustainable development and natural resources, an emergency support package for dairy producers was approved. the total amount of the appropriations made available for the implementation of the pilot projects and preparatory actions is eur 100000000. the s&d group is proud to have secured an increase over the commission's draft for external development policy, humanitarian aid, the european instrument for democracy and human rights and other important development programmes.
written. ‒ the union is currently facing a number of challenges that require quick and effective solutions. this is particularly the case for the refugee and migration crisis, which requires financial resources to be allocated in a way that allows for an adequate and flexible response to the crisis. further efforts are also needed to address the shortcomings of the european economy, to strengthen competitiveness, and to increase the number and quality of jobs, especially for young people. in this respect, the role of micro, small and medium-sized enterprises is invaluable. the planned eur 50 billion of investment by public and private investors through the european fund for strategic investments should make a significant contribution as a generator of economic recovery. the amount of assigned revenue in accordance with article 21 (3) of the financial regulation is estimated at eur 100000. the budget of eur 157,4 billion shall be guided by the objectives of the europe 2020 strategy and be consistent with the multiannual financial framework of the european union for the period 2014 to 2020. in times of uncertainty, the most important european financial instrument must provide stability and investment for further development.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, but this explanation of vote is a criticism of the existing system of evaluating the work of meps in the european parliament solely on the basis of the statistical number of parliamentary activities promoted in croatia, which does not actually reflect the actual quality and quantity of work, efficiency and above all the success of the representative action.
written. ‒ i supported this report because i believe that the budget reflects the political priorities adopted by the majority in previously adopted resolutions. the commission should also be able to provide information on the progress of the union's external action in the field of migration and asylum, including the progress made in the implementation of the union's external action programme. i note that the union is facing a number of crises such as the migration and refugee crisis and that it is essential to provide the necessary financial resources to address current challenges, which would enable the union to find solutions and respond effectively to those crises with urgency. it is understood that the migration and refugee crisis cannot be solved by financial means alone. i also support the decision to take measures to address the current crisis in the agricultural sector, particularly in the dairy sector. i also support the decision to transfer the 2015 emergency appropriations to the 2016 budget and to use these unused appropriations to reimburse the beneficiaries of direct payments as provided for in regulation (eu) no 1306/2013.
this appropriation is intended to cover the financing of the european schools in the member states and the european schools in the union. the priorities are to focus on internal and external solidarity, in particular on effectively addressing the refugee and migrant crisis, and on enhancing competitiveness through job creation, leading to the development of entrepreneurship across the union. the commission has also received a number of complaints from the member states concerning the lack of transparency in the implementation of the budget. the commission shall be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 290 concerning the establishment of the european data protection board. i fully support this report because it takes into account both the welfare of vulnerable individuals outside the european union and the welfare of european entrepreneurs, which will contribute to the betterment of the union as a whole.
written. ‒ ensuring a functioning judiciary is key to europe's future. the cost to citizens is high, as member states have not been able to agree on simple criteria while protecting their national interests in every respect. however, the conclusion is that a dysfunctional judiciary would have an even higher cost for the citizens of the european union, so i support this report. finally, gender balance is what needs to be addressed, so that ultimately both sexes should be equally represented in the european courts.
written. ‒ i voted out of the draft legislative resolution of the european parliament on the council's position at first reading with a view to adopting a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending protocol no 3 on the statute of the court of justice of the european union, because i consider that the amendments to the statute of such an important eu institution should be implemented on the basis of concrete and established needs which are in line with the legal texts and the basic treaties. the court of justice has also been asked to provide a detailed explanation of the reasons for the increase in the number of judges. furthermore, i also agree with the rejection of the request to abolish the civil service tribunal for lack of a legal basis in the contracts. however, i support the increase in the number of staff in the registry and the language services for greater efficiency and readiness of the judges and of the court itself. in addition, i support the establishment of a joint committee of experts of the parliament and the council to analyse the judicial system in the eu, i.e. to improve it.
‒ in 2011, the court of justice of the european union launched a legislative initiative to change its status to allow the appointment of 12 additional judges to the general court, due to the need to reduce the number of cases per judge and their duration. however, no judges were appointed as no agreement was reached between the member states. due to the high cost, he asks that the proposal be rejected and proposes the appointment of 19 new secretaries to help speed up the handling of cases. i supported the recommendation of the member of parliament, mr antónia marinha e pinta, because each new office costs more than eur 1 million per year, and the total annual fee would be more than eur 20 million. the extra high costs in times of economic crisis are not appropriate, so i think it's the right move to appoint new secretaries, because hiring only 9 in 2014 proved successful as 100 more cases were solved.
written. ‒ i consider it necessary to increase the number of judges of the general court of the european union. the trend of increasing the number of cases brought before the court is a good and a bad indicator. good in the sense that citizens are slowly becoming aware of the options and protections available - the options to protect their rights, not only at national level, but also at a higher, european level. the court also indirectly influences the national judiciaries of the member states through its work and decisions, while at the same time promoting the unification and harmonisation of the law. i support the decision to increase the number of judges because it guarantees respect for the fundamental principle of the right to a fair trial within a reasonable time. the increase in the number of judges would greatly contribute to the quality of the trial and enable the parties to protect in the best possible way all the rights to which they are entitled.
written. ‒ due to the gradual expansion of the jurisdiction of the general court since its establishment, the number of cases before the general court has been increasing for years, which has led to an increase in the number of cases pending before that court over time. the president of the tribunal shall be entitled to appoint a judge to the tribunal. in order to streamline the duration and the procedure, i support the adoption of the council's position at first reading with a view to the adoption of a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending protocol no 3 on the statute of the court of justice of the european union, which provides for an increase in the number of judges of the general court.
written. ‒ in 2011, the court of justice of the european union (cjeu) launched an initiative to change the legislative status to allow the appointment of more than 12 judges to the general court (gc). in 2013, the court of justice of the european union reduced its requirement to nine judges, as agreed by the council of the european union, the european commission (ec) and the european parliament (ep). however, at the previous sitting, the ep approved 12 additional judges at first reading. however, the council did not appoint these 12 judges, as the member states had not reached an agreement on the selection of judges and each state wished to appoint its own judge. the court of justice of the european union (cjeu) has also established that the number of judges of the general court should be increased to 28 in three stages. the conclusions and recommendations are as follows: the court of justice should justify the exact number of judges that is really needed, also judges already appointed should be sworn in immediately, and a committee of experts should be formed to analyse the advantages and disadvantages of creating a new court specialised in trade marks, patents and intellectual property. the commission has also proposed to increase the number of staff in the secretariat and translation services, to analyse the overall functioning of justice in the eu, and to propose improvements in the recruitment and appointment of judges. for all of the above, i support the report of reporter pint.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, but this explanation of vote is a criticism of the existing system of evaluating the work of meps in the european parliament solely on the basis of the statistical number of parliamentary activities promoted in croatia, which does not actually reflect the actual quality and quantity of work, efficiency and above all the success of the representative action.
written. ‒ i supported this report because increasing the number of judges to 56 improves the general situation and the court's ability to function. the increase in the number of judges allows the duration of court cases to be reduced and increases the efficiency of the court itself. the court of justice shall be assisted by the permanent chambers of the general court. the increase in the number of judges to 56 will also improve both the efficiency of resources and the drive to create more specialised chambers.
written. ‒ i support the proposal to increase the number of judges and amend protocol no 3 on the statute of the court of justice of the european union. the jurisdiction of the general court has gradually expanded since its establishment and the number of cases before it has been increasing over the years. i support the view that appropriate procedural measures must be taken and that better organisation must be introduced, which includes an increase in the number of judges. we must help to reduce the length of proceedings and to make the general court more efficient and effective. i would like to emphasise that the appointment of additional judges should be based on their independence, impartiality and competence, taking into account their professional and personal suitability and their knowledge of the legal systems of the european union and the member states, and should guarantee gender equality in the overall composition of the court.
written. - i support this recommendation. the commission has also proposed to extend the scope of the regulation to include the fisheries sector, in particular the fisheries sector in the context of the reform of the common fisheries policy. what we must always bear in mind is that, in addition to fishing and making a living, we must also take care of the conservation of flora and fauna for all future generations to come.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the draft legislative resolution of the european parliament on the council position at first reading with a view to adopting a regulation of the parliament and of the council amending regulation (eu) no 1343/2011 on certain provisions for fisheries in the area covered by the gfcm agreement, because i consider that exceptions to the rules in individual and limited cases are necessary and acceptable for technical and natural reasons, such as in the case of coastal nomadic fishing in the black sea and coral fishing. i therefore support the member states' responsibility for derogations from the black sea anchorage ban, subject to the commission's supervision. however, any exemption, like any other activity, must be in accordance with the principles of promoting the development, conservation, rational management and protection of marine resources and ecosystems.
written. ‒ parliament and the council agreed on measures to provide an appropriate framework for multilateral cooperation in the field of promoting the development, conservation, rational management and best use of the natural flora and fauna of the mediterranean and black seas. the main obstacle is the choice of legal mechanisms that would allow certain derogations to member states, in particular for red coral. i supported the recommendation of mr gabriele mato, mep, because, among other things, it stresses the need for additional control and regulation because of the danger of endangering the precious coral, which is extracted from the mediterranean sea up to 20 tonnes a year, but also because of other endangered resources. in croatia, the mining of red coral requires a permit, or concession, that is no longer issued by the ministry of environmental protection.
written. ‒ in recent years, there has been much discussion about the fishing sector, which directly affects the lives of many people and families. i believe that this report will benefit small-scale blue-fish farmers and make a major contribution to the protection of the entire marine and coastal ecosystem, which is why i support it. the fisheries sector is a significant exporter, food producer and employer for 12 months of the year. it is no coincidence that the european union has a special fund for fisheries, because it is a branch that produces food, without which human life would not be possible. croatia is also a maritime country with many fishermen for whom fishing, which has a long tradition in croatia, is much more than just work and employment, and therefore deserves special eu care and attention to prevent measures that would be detrimental to the fishing sector. i am in favour of these measures, which are important not only for fisheries but also for the ecological protection of the mediterranean and the adriatic, which we must preserve.
written. ‒ in line with the recommendations of the general fisheries commission for the mediterranean (gfcm), the council and the european parliament have approved certain amendments to existing eu law to improve the framework for multilateral cooperation to promote sustainable development, conservation, sound management and optimum use of living marine resources in the mediterranean and the black sea. for example, the harvesting of red coral is prohibited at depths of less than 50 meters, and the use of remotely operated underwater vehicles for the purpose of coral fishing, but not for coral observation and research, is prohibited. in its additional statement, parliament expressed its agreement to the agreement exempting certain member states from the prohibition on the use of certain equipment in the coastal waters of the black sea, as they use the equipment in question in accordance with the recommendations of the general commission, according to pre-determined and approved national frameworks. the commission shall, in doing so, retain the right to supervise the national frameworks referred to above, which are regulated by the member states themselves. as the republic of croatia is one of the ten member states that are contracting parties to the gfcm agreement, i consider the transposition of the relevant provisions and recommendations of the gfcm to be of the utmost importance in order to ensure their uniform and effective application throughout the european union, while allowing croatia a certain degree of autonomy in the management of marine assets in the adriatic sea.
‒ the european parliament has introduced provisions on derogations from the prohibition on the use of certain equipment in the coastal waters of the black sea. the commission shall, by means of implementing acts, lay down the rules on the application of this regulation, including the rules on the use of the gfcm and the rules on the use of the gfcm by the competent authorities of the member states. -a. the european parliament and the council agreed on a number of recommendations by the general fisheries commission for the mediterranean (gfcm agreement) which provide an appropriate framework for multilateral cooperation to promote the development, conservation, rational management and best use of the living resources of the mediterranean and black sea seas at levels considered sustainable and at low risk of collapse. the main problem facing legislators is the choice of legal mechanisms to be used in the requests to member states, in particular with regard to the use of the black sea cod and the harvesting of red coral. i did.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, but this explanation of vote is a criticism of the existing system of evaluating the work of meps in the european parliament solely on the basis of the statistical number of parliamentary activities promoted in croatia, which does not actually reflect the actual quality and quantity of work, efficiency and above all the success of the representative action.
written. ‒ i support the report and proposals by the commission on the common fisheries policy for the mediterranean, as it provides an appropriate framework for multilateral cooperation to promote the development, conservation, rational management and best use of the living resources of the seas in the mediterranean and the black sea. i also agree with the decision on the compromise on how to grant derogations on harvesting and the minimum baseline diameter of the red coral colony, that all member states submit their proposals within 3 years.
‒ the general fisheries commission for the mediterranean (gfcm) was established in 1949 and its main objectives are to promote the development, conservation, rational management and best use of living marine resources and the sustainable development of aquaculture in the mediterranean, the black sea and neighbouring seas. the gfcm has adopted a number of technical measures over the last five years to ensure the sustainable exploitation of red coral, reduce incidental catches of seabirds, sea turtles and whales and conserve polar bears, sharks and rays in the gfcm agreement area. the commission should be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 290 tfeu concerning the establishment of a list of species of union concern, the establishment of a list of species of union concern and the establishment of a list of species of union concern. i support the council's position at first reading with a view to adopting a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending regulation (eu) no 1343/2011 laying down certain provisions for fisheries in the area covered by the gfcm agreement (general fisheries commission for the mediterranean) as i believe that the adoption of this regulation will ensure the transposition of the relevant gfcm measures into union law without going beyond what is necessary to achieve the desired objective.
written. ‒ today's vote solves one problem, and that is a bad proposal for a regulation on gmo food which would be unworkable and would bring chaos to the common market. its basic purpose, that member states have the possibility of banning the sale of gmo food, would not be fulfilled and that is why i will vote to withdraw it. but the problem of the unfair system of approving gmo food remains. member states will never be able to reach an agreement on this issue and the commission will therefore continue to have the power to grant authorisations for sale and use itself. in conclusion, i would like to tell the european commission that the rejection of this gmo proposal does not relieve them of their obligation to democratize the authorisation process. this was one of the promises of president juncker and that is why we want the commission to come up with a new, better proposal for a regulation. it is a matter of concern to our citizens and a promise that is central to the democratic legitimacy of the european union.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the draft legislative resolution of the european parliament on the proposal for a regulation of the parliament and of the council amending regulation (ec) no 1829/2003 as regards the possibility for member states to restrict or prohibit the use of genetically modified food and feed on their territory, as this rejects the proposal of the european commission. i consider that the proposal does not address the problems within the current authorisation system and leads to a potential fragmentation of the internal market. in addition, it is difficult to implement this proposal as border controls no longer exist in the european agricultural sector. i therefore support the call on the commission to come forward with a new and improved legislative proposal. the commission's proposal is based on the principle of subsidiarity, which is a principle that is enshrined in the treaty on european union.
written. ‒ directive 2001/18/ec and regulation (ec) no 1829/2003 aim to establish a comprehensive legal framework for the authorisation of the placing on the market of genetically modified organisms (gmos) and genetically modified food. the purpose is the safety of the citizens of the union and the safety and quality of food for humans and animals. it is important to establish a centralised procedure in order to ensure the validity of universal rules and to empower the commission to take decisions on the rejection or approval of applications. the commission shall be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 26 to amend the list of products referred to in paragraph 1 by adding the following: the risk assessments for human health and the environment are also set out in the regulation. i supported the report by mr giovanni la vie because we need a uniform and detailed legal system to protect our citizens, the quality of food and the standards of the union. there are no gmo seed producers in croatia yet, and food has been regularly checked for the presence of gmos since 2007.
written. ‒ i strongly support the clear and unequivocal rejection of the commission's proposal. member states must retain the right to decide independently on the presence of genetically modified organisms on their territory. this is particularly true in croatia, where more and more counties have declared themselves gmo-free. we need to say no to the pressure of the gmo industry and strongly advocate for the production of food products as it is done today in croatia in a natural, safe and clean environment.
written. ‒ the aim of the report proposal is to maintain the same level of safety regarding the use of gm food throughout the eu. the proposed regulation provides that member states may adopt measures to restrict or prohibit the use of gmos or gmos in food and feed, provided that such measures are justified on compelling grounds, are in accordance with union law and are proportionate and non-discriminatory. where a member state intends to adopt measures restricting or prohibiting the use of a product, it shall first submit to the commission a draft of the measures and the corresponding justification. the commission shall immediately inform the other member states of such draft measures, together with the appropriate justification. however, member states must be able to demonstrate that the product in question presents a risk to health and the environment. the commission has therefore concluded that the proposed measures are in line with the principles of the union's organic law and with the principles of the union's organic law. furthermore, sufficient time should be allowed for operators to allow the withdrawal of products from the market. i support the report because it is designed to amend existing legislation to give member states the possibility to restrict or prohibit the use of gm food and feed on their territory for the safety of eu citizens.
written. ‒ the european union has a comprehensive legal framework for the authorisation and labelling of genetically modified organisms (gmos) and genetically modified (gm) food. the authorisation procedure for such food should be checked by the european food safety authority (efsa) under strict risk assessment guidelines. unfortunately, in many cases of gm food, this assessment is not detailed enough. the gmo itself is still not fully informed and improved analyses of the environmental aspects of genetically modified plants and genetically modified food and feed should be introduced in the marketing authorisation procedure. the commission also announced in its 2015 work programme a review of those procedures to address the concerns of citizens and member states, as gmos are authorised even where a qualified majority of member states are opposed to them. that is why i supported the proposed legal framework which provides that gmos or gm food may not be placed on the market without prior authorisation issued in accordance with the relevant legal provisions. the review of the authorisation procedures for genetically modified food and feed is essential and such food should not be placed on the market before a risk assessment has been carried out.
written. ‒ i supported this report because i believe that amending regulation (ec) no 1829/2003 will introduce new possibilities for member states to restrict or prohibit the use of gmos and genetically modified food and feed on their territory. i also support the additional powers that this proposal will give member states to restrict or prohibit the use of gmos and genetically modified food and feed, but i note that these powers must be in line with the european union legislative framework. i believe that this proposal is in line with the eu legal framework and the principle of subsidiarity and will contribute to regulating the restriction of gmos and genetically modified food and feed.
written. ‒ i support the rapporteur's position, as i consider the commission's proposal very difficult to implement, even though member states should be able to restrict or prohibit the use of genetically modified food and feed on their territory. the commission proposes to allow member states, under certain conditions, to restrict or prohibit the use of genetically modified food on their territory. the commission should also be able to assess the impact of the proposed measures on the union's agricultural sector. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament and the council should be given the opportunity to present their views on the proposal. the commission has not received any comments from interested parties on the measures in force. the commission also did not clarify the concept of 'use' in its proposal. for all the above, i support the rapporteur's position.
written. ‒ the novel food regulation is an important piece of legislation that should regulate and centralise the process of authorising and controlling a novel food on the eu market. it should raise the level of consumer health protection and regulate the functioning of the internal market. in short, if our citizens want to eat grasshoppers and exotic berries, these products must be health-approved and safe, but also approved by a uniform procedure. while these goals were arguably met, the final document did not include regulations on meat from cloned animals and definitions of nanoproducts that would close potential legal loopholes. that's why i abstained on this vote.
written. ‒ voted in favour of the draft legislative resolution of the european parliament on the proposal for a regulation of the parliament and of the council on novel foods, as it revises the obsolete 1997 law and simplifies the application procedure for a novel food and speeds up and facilitates its authorisation, while increasing transparency for the benefit of consumers. scientific and technological progress in the food sector requires an updated definition of novel food and it is therefore necessary to ensure a high level of protection of human health. the obsolescence of the existing definition has been confirmed by producers, experts and food industry stakeholders as it lacks legal certainty and a clear meaning of what the novel food actually entails. for the reasons stated above, i support this report.
written. regulation (ec) no 258/97 of the european parliament and of the council and commission regulation (ec) no 1852/2001 provide that any novel food or novel ingredient is to be authorised before being placed on the market in order to maintain a high level of protection of human health and consumer interests. the list of foods and ingredients has been significantly extended to include foods containing micro-organisms, fungi, algae or foods with a deliberately modified primary molecular structure, so that the existing definition of novel food does not cover new species and ingredients. the scope and definition of novel foods is a contentious issue, but so is the need for a simplified authorisation process. the aim of the regulation is to introduce a more practical safety assessment, without adversely affecting human health, without being contrary to the interests of consumers and without adversely affecting the functioning of the internal market. i supported the report by mr james nicholson, taking into account the progress in the food industry which makes it necessary to renew legislation to protect intellectual property and to harmonise the authorisation procedure without reducing the level of consumer protection. in croatia, in the case of placing a novel food on the market, the entity must inform the ministry of health and is obliged to do the same if new scientific knowledge emerges about whether the novel food is dangerous to human health.
written. ‒ i supported this proposal because i believe that the existing legislative framework needs to be adapted to today's developments and to the new technologies and food types that are appearing on the market. the question of nanotechnology is becoming an important food safety issue as technology advances. i therefore supported the amendments tabled by the committee on the environment, public health and food safety and asked that special attention be paid to nanotechnology in the food industry. i consider it necessary to establish a strict procedure for the investigation and supervision of the european food safety authority, as well as the appropriate labelling of such food. i also expect that 'new food', especially food that has certainly been used for a long time in third countries and is coming to europeans' tables, will be subject to a clearer and more efficient authorisation procedure. citizens of europe, consumers must know what they are eating and must be informed about the composition of the final product they are buying for consumption. this eu act allows safe and innovative food to be placed on the eu market after the necessary tests have been carried out, without compromising the existing high level of health safety.
written. ‒ opening up the food sector to innovation is not possible without increasing the efficiency and transparency of the authorisation procedure for novel foods, and work on accelerating the assessment of traditional foods from third countries with a history of safe use is particularly commendable. at the same time, i support the efforts of the council and parliament to ensure, through this regulation, high standards of protection of public health and food safety and to define precisely the concept of novel foods and new technologies affecting food production. the amendments to the earlier proposal are particularly important, giving parliament greater control over the authorisation of novel foods, and stricter regulation and more precise definitions in the area of food produced by nanotechnology and food derived from cloned animals or their offspring. in particular, it requires that those foods are correctly labelled for the final consumer and, in the case of nanomaterials, that new test methods are developed and the precautionary principle applied in order to reduce the potential exposure of humans to nanomaterials.
written. ‒ i support the report by rapporteur james nicholson on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on novel foods, which is the commission's second attempt to reform the eu's novel food regime, dating back to 1997 the existing regulatory framework has been criticised as being particularly difficult, time-consuming and expensive for new food authorisations. as a consequence, many food companies in the eu, and smes, were reluctant to develop and market new foods or food ingredients that would fall under the scope of novel foods. the proposal introduces a more rapid and proportionate safety assessment for traditional food from third countries. in addition to the overall objective of ensuring food safety, the new regulation aims to simplify the authorisation procedure for novel foods by establishing a list of authorised novel foods. the aim of the proposal is to clarify the definition of novel food and thereby increase legal certainty. the revision of the novel food regulation is highly sensitive and indeed necessary in view of scientific and technological advances in the food industry. i'm not sure.
‒ eu rules on novel foods were established on 15 may 1997 by regulation no 158/97 of the european parliament, the council and the commission. food traders, stakeholders and policy makers in the union institutions have agreed that any 'novel food' or food product should be subject to pre-market authorisation in order to maintain a high level of protection of human health and consumer interests. in view of the rapid and major scientific and technological developments in the food sector, the appropriateness of the existing definition of 'novel food' has been called into question. the existing definition does not cover a new type of food produced by (or consisting of) micro-organisms, fungi and algae, therefore a revision of the definition contained in the regulation is urgently needed. i did not support this resolution because i believe it is essential to clarify the definitions and clarify the unknowns so that the new food does not have a negative impact on our health, the interests of consumers or the very functioning of the internal market. the same substance should be considered as novel food if a significant change in the food production process occurs. it should also be assessed according to the relevant specific rules in order not to compromise food safety.
written. ‒ i supported this report because the safe movement of safe and healthy food contributes significantly to the health and well-being of citizens. it also has a significant impact on social and economic opportunities. i am of the opinion that it is necessary to facilitate the import of traditional foods from third countries into the union market and to clarify that such foods should only be considered as traditional foods if they are obtained from primary production as defined in article of regulation (ec) no 178/2002, regardless of whether they are processed or unprocessed foods. the commission should be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 264 concerning the establishment of criteria for the assessment of the safety of novel foods. in order to encourage research and development within the agri-food industry and thus innovation, it is necessary to protect investments. as for the technology involved in the emergence of new food, it can have an impact on food and food safety. it should therefore also be clarified that a food is to be considered a novel food if it is subject to a production process that has not been applied in production before, or if the food contains or consists of manufactured nanomaterials, as set out in point (t) of article 2 (2) of regulation (eu) no 1169/2011 of the european parliament and of the council.
written. ‒ novel foods are foods and food ingredients that were not used in the human diet in the european union to a significant degree before 1997. novel foods are foods obtained by the use of new technologies, innovative foods or foods that are traditionally used in other countries but not in the european union. the current authorisation process for such food has proven to be complex, costly and time-consuming. consumer protection, food safety and effective authorisation must be priorities, but procedures need to be reformed and regulations updated to keep pace with scientific and technological developments in this area. i think it's important to point out that we have to look at the safety of human health, but also the welfare of animals and the environment. the labelling of such products must be of a high quality to inform consumers and must clearly indicate the origin. the most important areas updated by this proposal are centralised authorisation procedures, simplification of the authorisation process, better data protection and the introduction of a definition of nanomaterials, which will need to be improved in the future in line with future knowledge. i support this proposal because i believe it contributes to better regulation of food safety in the european union.
written. ‒ every year 400 000 europeans die prematurely from air pollution. poor air quality causes all kinds of diseases, reduces quality of life, and leads to overuse of medicines, increased admissions to hospitals, and millions of lost work days. air pollution also affects europe's nature and biodiversity, agricultural yields and vegetation. the loss of agricultural yields is estimated at around eur 3 billion in 2010. that is why i support the ambitious targets proposed by the european commission, but with the caveat that it was necessary to add exemptions for small farmers.
written. ‒ air quality is an important element for human health and the environment, concerns all citizens and requires urgent action. years of ignorance have made air pollution the world's biggest public health problem, and poor air quality has contributed to the development of various diseases, increased health care costs, absenteeism and reduced productivity. the total health costs caused by air pollution in europe are estimated at between eur 330 and 940 billion per year. the commission adopted on 18 december 2013 a clean air package for the period up to 2030. the proposal contains different limits for each member state and each pollutant and requires member states to adopt national air pollution control programmes. it is important that the commission continuously carries out comprehensive monitoring and provides timely assistance to member states in implementing the programme drawn up. the key step towards this goal will be the introduction of low emission zones, designed to reduce diesel car emissions in the most heavily polluted urban areas. i supported the report by mp julie girling on the protection of human health and the ecosystem from the harmful effects of air pollution. croatia has second and third categories of air quality in certain urban areas, which are moderately and excessively polluted air. that's more than enough reason to give this issue more space because the price we pay is too high.
written. ‒ air pollution is a problem faced by many large cities in europe and the world, and the sources of pollution are the result of the development of civilization and the way of life of modern man. this directive aims to set out the framework for reducing air pollution to levels that do not cause significant adverse effects on human health and the environment, in accordance with the air quality guidelines published by the world health organisation. the commission shall be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 26 to supplement this regulation by laying down detailed rules for the application of this regulation. this is why the report was prepared in the context of a heated debate on the inclusion of methane and mercury in the list of air pollutants whose emissions should be limited and on better monitoring of ammonia emissions, whose emissions to the environment should be further reduced. the inclusion of methane in the list of pollutants could have serious consequences for eu agriculture, especially the meat sector. animal welfare could be compromised by limiting methane emissions from the agricultural sector, as animals would have to spend more time indoors. i am of the opinion that the issue of methane emissions from agricultural production must be addressed in a package of regulations linked to european climate protection policy, by a joint effort of all sectors emitting methane, bearing in mind the real potential of each sector.
written. ‒ as poor air quality remains the cause of hundreds of thousands of premature deaths a year and a major environmental and economic problem, stronger integrated eu action is needed to mitigate the impacts of climate change and to improve the synergies of union legislation with its climate and energy policies. the proposal for this directive establishes new national emission reduction commitments for sulphur dioxide, nitrogen oxides, ammonia and non-methane volatile organic compounds for 2020, 2025 and 2030, based on a detailed cost-benefit study for each member state separately. methane, pm2.5 and mercury have also been added to the scope of the directive. the implementation of this directive should, in addition to the expected environmental and health benefits, lead to the creation of 40 000 new jobs and the strengthening of green technologies. it is envisaged that measures applicable to the agricultural sector, industry, road transport are included in national air pollution control programmes and that member states regularly update their national emission reduction programmes under the supervision of the competent authorities. the new proposal would require croatia to reduce its emissions of so2 by 87%, nitrous oxide by 70% and ammonia by 29% by 2030, and would also help to encourage more responsible organic farming, while opening up access to additional subsidies from eu funds to support small and medium-sized enterprises.
written. ‒ i support the report by my colleague julie girling on the proposal for a directive of the european parliament and of the council on the reduction of national emissions of certain atmospheric pollutants and amending directive 2003/35/ec. the directive aims to limit emissions of certain air pollutants, thereby contributing to the european union's long-term objective of achieving better air quality that does not cause adverse effects on human health and the environment, and of mitigating the effects of climate change. the directive should be consistent with european and international climate change action and with the comprehensive binding global climate change agreement. the commission is also proposing to set more ambitious targets to be met by 2030 and to require member states to meet the requirements to reduce emissions of certain pollutants and to report to the commission on progress. the commission should be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 290 tfeu concerning the establishment of a european union agency for the evaluation of medicinal products for human use (hereinafter referred to as 'the agency'). member states should establish a system of routine and non-routine environmental inspections and ensure that members of the public concerned are consulted at an early stage of the drafting process. the commission should facilitate access to funding to ensure that appropriate measures can be taken in line with the objectives of this directive, and the establishment of a european clean air forum is planned.
written. ‒ today we are threatened by major pollution caused by gases such as sulphur dioxide, nitrogen oxides, non-methane volatile organic compounds, ammonia, fine particulate matter and methane. it is important to reduce air pollution and its harmful effects on public health and the environment throughout the union. as the report's objectives are ambitious and in line with the europe 2020 targets for smart, inclusive and sustainable development, i supported this initiative. it should stimulate innovation to support green growth and maintain the competitiveness of the european economy, while helping the transition to a low-carbon economy, protecting europe's natural capital and building on europe's leadership in the development of new technologies. in addition, the 2030 reduction commitments will reduce the total external costs of air pollution by eur 40 billion, compared to eur 212 billion in base values, which is another reason why this initiative should be implemented.
written. ‒ i supported this report because the union has made progress in the last 20 years in the area of anthropogenic emissions into the air and air quality thanks to specific union policy, including the commission communication thematic strategy on air pollution. the union's long-term objective for air quality policy should be to achieve air quality that does not result in adverse impacts on and risks to human health and the environment. the commission should be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 290 concerning the establishment of a european union agency for the evaluation of medicinal products for human use (hereinafter referred to as 'the agency'). member states should contribute to the achievement of the union's long-term air quality objective in line with the world health organisation guidelines and the union's biodiversity and ecosystem objectives by reducing the levels and deposition of air pollutants that cause acidification, eutrophication and those that cause ozone below critical loads and levels.
written. ‒ this proposal for a directive of the european parliament and of the council on the reduction of national emissions of certain atmospheric pollutants, although it has very high quality provisions, is not precise enough and i do not support this proposal. the european union has made great progress in air quality over the last 20 years thanks to a specific union policy. the setting of total annual emission ceilings applicable since 2010 for sulphur dioxide (so2), nitrogen oxides (nox), ammonia (nh3) and non-methane volatile organic compounds (nmhos) has led to a reduction in a number of harmful emissions. however, significant negative impacts on the environment and human health remain. the proposed directive would replace the current european union regulation on annual national emission ceilings for certain atmospheric pollutants and would establish new linear national emission reduction commitments for the period 2020 to 2030. the commission has also proposed that the commission should propose a new burden-sharing framework for the union with a revised mandatory reduction of ammonia emissions by 2030. in addition, the epp is calling for the methane to be erased. i have supported this report being returned to the parent committee so that we can continue the dialogue with the council.
written. ‒ i voted for the european citizens' initiative report because i believe that such an instrument of participatory democracy is extremely important for actively communicating and connecting citizens with the eu institutions and their participation in policy and legislation-making. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's macro-financial assistance to the countries of central and eastern europe, in particular through the european neighbourhood instrument (enpi) and the european neighbourhood instrument (enpi). the commission should also promote the use of the citizens' initiative in the context of the european year of citizens' initiatives, in particular by encouraging citizens to take part in the european year of citizens' initiatives. i think this tool is excellent, but it needs to be brought closer and made clear to users, and certainly build citizens' trust in this instrument, and that is why i support this report.
‒ the european citizens' initiative is a new political right of citizens, enabling them to participate actively in the projects and processes of the union. the potential of the initiative must be exploited to achieve the best possible results, as strengthening the democratic legitimacy of the institutions is one of the eu's priorities. experience shows that most organisers of european citizens' initiatives have encountered numerous difficulties in terms of practicality and legal aspects. the european citizens' initiative allows for direct cooperation with the eu institutions and active participation in the shaping of european policies and legislation, and complements the right to make representations to parliament and to lodge complaints with the european ombudsman. it is essential to inform citizens about the initiative and raise awareness of its potential. so far, more than 6 million europeans have taken part in one of the initiatives with 51 requests - only 3 of which have reached parliament. the commission is invited to explain in detail the reasons for rejecting the proposal of the european citizens' initiative and to provide the organisers with relevant legal advice. i supported the report by mr györgy schöphlin, as citizens' initiatives represent a major step forward in participatory democracy. in croatia, the minimum number of signatories applicable to initiatives registered until 1.7.2014 is 9 thousand, and since 1.7.2014 it amounts to just over 8 thousand.
‒ the european citizens' initiative is the first instrument of participatory democracy that allows eu citizens to actively participate in decisions that affect them and directly affect their lives. the european citizens' initiative 'right to water' has gathered 1.86 million signatures and has recently received strong support from the european parliament. the 'one of us' initiative, which was a historic step forward in protecting life in europe, also failed to pass, collecting 1.89 million signatures and becoming the most widely supported european initiative by citizens, but not by politicians. i believe that europe has failed to take this initiative by not listening to the voice of its 1.89 million citizens. both these initiatives clearly show that our citizens care about the decisions that are made, that they are affected by them and that they want to influence them. i therefore believe that it is of the utmost importance to keep thinking about improving the way in which citizens can participate directly in democratic decision-making processes and, above all, to keep citizens well informed about the opportunities available to them. it is crucial to involve young people so that their voices are heard, that they have a space to fight for their rights and to participate actively in the civil and political life of the european union.
written. ‒ the european citizens' initiative is an exceptional opportunity for citizens to define and express their aspirations and to ask the eu to act, which is why the european citizens' initiative should be encouraged and supported by all available means. at the same time, it is necessary to recognise that there are significant shortcomings that need to be addressed and resolved in order to make european citizens' initiatives more effective. any further evaluation of the instrument should aim at achieving maximum accessibility for users, given that it represents the primary means of connecting europe's citizens with the eu. the unrealised potential of citizens' initiatives is best illustrated by the fact that more than six million eu citizens participated in one of the european citizens' initiatives, that 51 requests for initiative were submitted, of which only three were assessed as admissible, namely right2water, one of us and stop vivisection, and that six european citizens' initiative organisers, representing 30% of all rejected requests, challenged the commission's refusal before the court of justice of the european union.
written. ‒ i agree with the report by my colleague, györgy schöpflin, on the european citizens' initiative, which is an innovative tool for participatory democracy in the european union and provides an opportunity for citizens to express their aspirations and to ask the union to act. however, research and extensive contacts with civil society have shown that most organisers of european citizens' initiatives have encountered a number of difficulties in relation to practical and legal aspects. the european citizens' initiatives do not therefore have to be the sole responsibility of the commission. the commission should also consider setting up a dedicated office for european citizens' initiatives in each member state, and if it refuses to register a proposed citizens' initiative, the commission will inform the organisers of the reasons for the refusal and of any legal remedies available to them. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the european citizens' initiative (eci) and its implementation in the member states, in particular by means of the european citizens' initiative (eci) and the european citizens' initiative (eci). the public hearings should be structured in such a way as to allow the organisers to engage in a dialogue with the representatives of the european parliament and should be organised by a neutral committee. it is necessary to explore the possibilities of financing european citizens' initiatives from the eu budget, taking into account the need for financial support to the organisation of egis.
written. ‒ i have decided to abstain from voting on this report, and this explanation of vote is a criticism of the existing system of evaluating the work of meps in the european parliament solely on the basis of the statistical number of parliamentary activities promoted in croatia, which does not actually reflect the actual quality and quantity of work, efficiency and above all the success of the representative action.
written. ‒ i supported this report because i believe that the european citizens' initiative is a new political right of citizens and a unique and innovative tool for shaping the democracy agenda in the european union, which allows citizens to actively participate in projects and processes that affect them, and whose potential must undoubtedly be fully exploited and significantly improved in order to achieve the best results and encourage as many eu citizens as possible to participate in the further development of the european integration process. given that strengthening the democratic legitimacy of the institutions must be one of the priorities of the eu, i consider that it is necessary to assess the implementation of regulation (eu) no 211/2011 in order to identify all its shortcomings and to propose solutions to them. experience so far shows that most organisers of european citizens' initiatives have encountered numerous practical and legal difficulties in organising a european citizens' initiative, and that the organisers of several rejected european citizens' initiatives have subsequently lodged complaints with the court of justice of the european union and the european ombudsman against the commission's decision not to register their european citizens' initiatives. i believe that the civic engagement of young people in the european union is fundamental to the future of the union and the well-being of all its citizens, and i have therefore supported the report.
‒ the european citizens' initiative is designed as an instrument to enable european citizens to participate in the launching of legislative initiatives. the objective of the instrument is to contribute to the development of the union's social dimension by supporting the social dialogue and the dialogue between civil society organisations and civil society organisations. it is clear from the numerous responses from civil society and from the commission's report on the first three years of the instrument that, whatever the success criteria, no initiative has been followed up by a legislative process so far. furthermore, of the 33 initiatives registered so far, only 15 have been launched. i support this report because it aims to improve the functioning of the european citizens' initiative and to remove certain obstacles that have been in the way of the organisers of the initiative itself. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the new rules and will continue to monitor the implementation of the new rules and will continue to monitor the implementation of the new rules. in this situation, parliament's attitude towards the instrument will play a major role, since parliament represents the beneficiaries of the initiative themselves.
written. ‒ the adriatic-ionian strategy is an important non-legislative document describing the eu's objectives and priorities in the areas of blue growth, the connecting europe programme, environmental protection and sustainable tourism. this document establishes the third eu macro-region after the danube and baltic macro-regions. i support the report and the work of rapporteur jakovčić who took care to protect the interests of the czech republic, without turning the strategy into a narrow national document. this ensures broad support among meps.
written. ‒ i voted for the european parliament's report on the eu strategy for the adriatic and ionian region, as i am the main rapporteur of the regi committee, together with the other shadow rapporteurs, co-author of this document which is of great importance to me. as president of the adriatic-ionian euroregion, i have been active in promoting economic strengthening and stronger inter-integration and a faster convergence of the whole region towards the eu. in particular, at the adriatic-ionian euroregion assembly we concluded that such an eu strategy should be launched as early as 2009, and in 2010 our initiative was presented to the committee of the regions. it is therefore particularly important to me that our efforts were realised last year with the adoption of the european council decision to launch an eu strategy for the adriatic and ionian region. this document represents the unified position of most of the political groups in the european parliament and is a useful contribution, first of all to the european commission, but also to other european bodies, towards a high-quality implementation of the strategy.
written. ‒ the eu strategy for the adriatic-ionian region aims to ensure sustainable economic growth and development, environmental and energy sustainability, and social and territorial cohesion. it is also important for its impact on non-eu countries, and is part of the enlargement strategy and involves cooperation at all levels european, national, regional and local. the refugee crisis has shown the lack of development in this region and the need for greater cohesion. the lack of communication between the countries in the region and the underdevelopment have certainly contributed to the chaotic situation we are in at the moment. the commission shall be assisted by the european parliament and the council, acting by a qualified majority on a proposal from the commission, and shall be assisted by the european parliament and the council. i supported the report on the eu strategy for the adriatic region and as an alternate member of the regi committee, and as i come from the region, i think it is important to highlight the need to implement the strategy and develop this part of europe as its potential is untapped. in particular, i stress that the success of macro-regional strategies such as this depends on the will of the countries in the region, the timely preparation of projects and strong regional cooperation and coherence across all policies at all levels.
written. ‒ i support the eu strategy for the adriatic and ionian region, because i believe that it will enable the countries of the region to cooperate better in promoting the maritime sector, preserving the seas, developing transport and energy networks and encouraging tourism, and thus also directly affecting the improvement of the lives of the 70 million inhabitants of the region. the support and investment programme delivered by the strategy can contribute to economic development and thus job creation in the countries of the region, which is one of the greatest challenges for most of them. i welcome the idea of using and promoting sustainably all the natural beauties and riches that the countries of the region have that are not recognised and/or whose capacities are not fully exploited. as far as croatia is concerned, investing in sustainable and quality tourism is certainly a positive thing and can guarantee a better future for croatia. the commission notes that the airport services agreement between the airlines and the airlines is not a legally binding agreement. the road and rail corridor will connect croatia to the baltic-adriatic corridor, which runs from the baltic sea through poland, via vienna and bratislava to northern italy.
written. ‒ i strongly welcome and support the creation of a third european macro-region. the adriatic strategy currently covers four member states and four countries aspiring to full eu membership, which participation in such a project can and should certainly help on their european integration path. the current differences between countries are much bigger than whether they are part of the eu or not. the differences in economic development and macro-financial indicators are large. transport infrastructure within and between some of the countries is extremely poorly developed. for now, the project of building the adriatic-ionian motorway has been initiated by croatia, but we hope that the eu will soon also initiate this project, because europe cannot only unite politically but also needs to develop transport routes, energy corridors and other relations. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's energy policy and its implementation in the context of the union's energy policy. i hope that all stakeholders will be involved in the implementation of the strategy in a transparent and inclusive way to foster social cohesion, economic development and environmental sustainability. if successful, the adriatic-ionian strategy is of interest to all eu member states and has the capacity to contribute to the further integration of the internal market and stability of the region.
written. ‒ this strategy is an important part of the eu's regional policy and will prove to be a quality mechanism for economic and social cohesion and for boosting growth and employment. since the launch of the adriatic-ionian initiative in ancona in 2000, i have been closely following the cooperation in the jiba and the development of the strategy adopted last year. in the wake of the refugee and migration crisis, the strategy needs to be placed in the wider context of mediterranean cooperation. in the current format of 4 eu member states and 4 candidate countries, the focus should be on jointly preparing projects funded by the european structural and investment funds in the fields of maritime affairs, culture, education, tourism, culture and environmental protection. these are the primary interests of all the countries involved, and i believe that kosovo and macedonia will soon join this framework. it is important that there is constant communication and better cooperation between all actors at management, implementation and coordination levels in order to prepare projects more quickly. the project will be implemented in a multi-sector approach, with the aim of improving the quality of the services provided by the project. croatia, as the only danube and adriatic country, has a great opportunity to upgrade its foreign policy, trade and development activities. the priority is better transport connectivity on the adriatic-ionian route, which concerns the construction of the road and rail network to the south, the connection with the islands and the completion of the construction of the pelješac bridge.
written. ‒ the eu strategy for the adriatic and ionian region (eusair), as part of the eu's regional policy, is a means of promoting economic and social cohesion, with the main objectives of reducing disparities between regions, promoting real convergence and fostering growth and employment. in this context, eusair provides a unique opportunity for countries in the region to turn the page on past economic and political problems, and to pursue progress and sustainable development together. i supported the implementation of eusair, primarily because i am concerned about the encouragement of offshore and onshore oil and gas exploration and exploitation, which could expose the macro-region to the risk of disasters with very serious consequences for the environment, the economy, including the fisheries sector, and human health. the mediterranean sea, because of its semi-enclosure, is prone to pollution, and i therefore call for joint efforts to take all possible measures to preserve the biodiversity of the marine environment and transnational terrestrial habitats and to prevent and reduce marine pollution and other threats to coastal and marine biodiversity. the commission will continue to support the development of the adriatic and ionian region, in particular through the development of the european regional development fund (erdf) and the european regional development fund (erdf).
written. ‒ i supported this report because i believe that this strategy rightly emphasises the specific position of the region, the specific structure of the coast and the rich marine diversity. i believe there is great potential for creating 'blue' jobs, stimulating economic development and growth, including fisheries, aquaculture and blue technology. furthermore, i believe it encourages clustering and cooperation between private and public companies, as well as universities and institutes. i also believe it encourages shipbuilding and its modernization and specialization. for shipbuilding, this would mean the creation of new jobs and would also lead to sustainable and competitive growth in blue technologies. the strategy also puts emphasis on connecting the regions. it emphasises that transport and energy links between the participating countries and their neighbours are essential in the macro-region. these networks would be the basis for the economic and social development of the region. the strategy also puts emphasis on environmental conservation and quality, recalls the richness of marine, coastal and terrestrial ecosystems and calls for the exchange of practices between the participating countries to manage natural and cultural heritage.
‒ the european parliament adopted today the european union strategy for the adriatic and ionian region. the document places particular emphasis on the transport connectivity of the countries involved in road and rail infrastructure construction projects including the adriatic-ionian corridor, and explicitly highlights the importance of the construction of the peljec bridge and the transport connectivity of the eu territory, and thus of the cut-off croatian south. the strategy also covers the issue of migration, since migration is a new development in this part of europe, and this issue has not been resolved due to national egoisms and a common european solution is required. the eu's strategy for the adriatic-ionian macro-region aims to enable the 70 million inhabitants of this macro-region (albania, bosnia and herzegovina, montenegro, croatia, greece, italy, serbia and slovenia) to benefit from closer cooperation in areas such as promoting the maritime economy, preserving the marine environment, completing transport and energy networks and encouraging sustainable tourism. i support this report and expect the strategy to be implemented as soon as possible so that the inhabitants of these macro-regions and their inhabitants enjoy the same treatment as other eu citizens in terms of transport, energy, environmental protection and the stability and security of south east europe.
written. - i support this report. the current cohesion policy is closely aligned with the europe 2020 objectives of smart, sustainable and inclusive growth. this report focuses on the progress made by 2015, as cohesion policy is the main instrument for delivering the europe 2020 strategy. therefore, in order to capture the reality of the europe 2020 strategy, it is proposed, inter alia, to use 'tailor-made' europe 2020 targets for each region, in order to adapt them as closely as possible to realities such as the financial and economic crisis.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the eu parliament's motion for a resolution on cohesion policy and the revision of the europe 2020 strategy, given that the revision of the europe 2020 strategy needs to take into account the serious and uneven effects of the economic and financial crisis on member states and regions; whereas this document calls on the commission to provide information on the results orientation of cohesion policy and its concrete contribution to achieving the objectives of the europe 2020 strategy in the context of the ex-post evaluation of the 2007-2013 programming period; points out that at the time of the mid-term review during the implementation of the europe 2020 strategy, data on the application of the esi funds for the 2014-2020 period may still be missing, as there are delays in the implementation of cohesion policy during the current programming period and implementation is still at a very early stage, despite the fact that most of the operational programme agreements have been reached. furthermore, it regrets that the cohesion policy and related instruments are insufficiently mentioned in the strategy review process by the publication of the communication entitled 'reviewing the progress of the europe 2020 strategy for smart, sustainable and inclusive growth'; calls for the scope of the mid-term review of the europe 2020 strategy to be wisely defined and balanced and to focus on better linking the five objectives of the strategy and its flagship initiatives.
written. ‒ the report aims to highlight the importance and link between cohesion policy and the europe 2020 strategy. the implementation of cohesion policy contributes to the achievement of the objectives defined in the europe 2020 strategy. if we are revising the strategy, it is important to also design new mechanisms within the policy. i supported the report because it emphasises the importance and the opportunity of cohesion policy, encourages its proper use and the member states' compliance with the principles and instruments of cohesion policy. the data show that the implementation of cohesion policy is the right path towards the recovery of the real economy and regional cooperation, and i regret that croatia has not taken advantage of its opportunities.
written. ‒ cohesion policy as the eu's main investment instrument should have clear and measurable objectives and a very strong and controlled strategy. it must focus on agreed priorities and improve synergies between funds. over the coming years, we need to invest in the european structural and investment funds, which are crucial for smart, sustainable and green growth. the eu's cohesion and investment policy is an expression of european solidarity and of helping those who have more to those who have less in order to reduce the development gap between rich and developed western europe and eastern europe, which is constantly lagging behind in all development segments in both gdp and employment rates. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's macro-financial assistance to the countries of central and eastern europe, in particular the countries of the former soviet union, the former soviet union and the former soviet union.
written. ‒ the existing cohesion policy is the eu's main investment and development policy, aligned with the europe 2020 strategy's objectives of smart, sustainable and inclusive growth, but regional disparities and uneven development in employment, innovation and combating social exclusion remain significant. the synergies between cohesion policy and other eu policies such as the digital single market, the energy union, the single capital market and social policy are therefore necessary. in particular, the need to link cohesion policy, the eu's main instrument for investing in the real economy and for building solidarity by promoting balanced growth and progress, with investment and structural funds is emphasised. the new eu investment instrument, the european fund for strategic investments (efsi), is crucial here, with the aim of bridging the investment gap in the eu. i also strongly support the proposal to strengthen multi-level governance, a combined top-down and bottom-up approach and public-private partnerships, to enable cooperation between all local and regional stakeholders, including the civil sector. finally, i support the need for a truly territorial approach to the europe 2020 strategy in order to adapt investments to the different characteristics of individual areas. it is precisely such revisions of the europe 2020 strategy that are important in order to successfully prepare the requirements and strategies for the new financial and legislative periods.
written. ‒ i agree with the report by my colleague, mr fernand euas, on cohesion policy and the revision of the europe 2020 strategy. the revision of the europe 2020 strategy provides an opportunity to assess and recognise the contribution of cohesion policy to achieving the objectives of the strategy and to improving the existing interaction of different policies with the eu budget. it is necessary to take into account the severe and uneven effects of the economic and financial crisis on member states and regions. with a budget of eur 351.8 billion by the end of 2020, cohesion policy is the eu's main instrument for investing in the real economy, covering all regions and acting as an expression of european solidarity by promoting growth and progress and reducing economic, social and territorial inequalities. the new approach will also contribute to increasing consumption efficiency. the establishment of a performance framework and the introduction of ex ante conditionalities and links with country-specific recommendations in the 2014-2020 cohesion policy programming period will allow for a better investment environment in order to maximise the contribution of cohesion policy to the achievement of the key objectives of the europe 2020 strategy. the eu should certainly focus on sustainable growth and development and decent jobs in the coming period in order to make a long-term return on its investments.
written. ‒ cohesion policy represents more than one third of the eu budget, making it its main investment instrument. the commission shall be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 290 concerning the conditions for the participation of third countries in union programmes. furthermore, cohesion policy seeks and promotes synergies with other eu policies such as the digital single market, the energy union, social policy and, through its instruments and objectives (such as macro-regional strategies, the territorial programme, investment in smes), makes a significant contribution to strengthening the single market and achieving the objectives of the europe 2020 strategy. the revision of the europe 2020 strategy will focus on the implementation of flagship initiatives and aim to strike a balance between financial, fiscal and economic measures on the one hand and social, educational and environmental aspects, as well as equality aspects, in particular gender, on the other. i have therefore decided to support the cohesion policy resolution and the revision of the strategy in question, as it is a comprehensive and long-term strategy of the european union that invests in the main european priorities, strengthens the potential of the regions and promotes sustainable development.
written. ‒ i have supported this report because it is in line with the treaty on the functioning of the european union, and in particular with article 4, article 162 and articles 174 to 178 thereof. the commission shall be assisted by the european parliament and the council. i believe it is crucial to maintain a coherent approach across the different eu initiatives for growth and the environment, as the flagship initiatives of the europe 2020 strategy play a key role in improving coordination at local and regional level in the implementation of cohesion policy. the objectives of cohesion policy have evolved over time to support investment in europe's priorities and it is therefore important to support them.
written. ‒ cohesion policy is the eu's main instrument for investing in the real economy, covering all regions and acting as an expression of european solidarity by promoting growth and progress and reducing economic, social and territorial inequalities. it is aligned with the objectives of the europe 2020 strategy and provides the necessary framework for investment, not just the instrument for implementing the strategy. in this respect, it is underlined that the thematic concentration of the european structural and investment funds under the new structure focuses on 11 thematic objectives directly derived from the europe 2020 objectives and that certain prerequisites are directly linked to those thematic objectives in order to ensure maximum effective investment. the commission is currently preparing a mid-term review of the strategy and this report is the first european parliament position on this subject, focusing primarily on the cohesion policy of the strategy. i fully support this report because it allows for a balanced and smart revision of the existing strategy, providing for a better interlinking of objectives within the strategy itself.
written. - i support this report. in the current programming period, cohesion policy is closely linked to the objectives of the eu 2020 strategy and to the economic governance mechanisms. i agree that local and regional authorities should not be punished by reprogramming or withholding funding because of macroeconomic failures of national governments and that a balance should be struck between an efficient economy and the objectives of governance.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the european parliament's motion for a resolution on the european structural and investment funds and good economic governance: guidelines for the application of article 23 of the common provisions regulation, given that this document recalls that decisions relating to reprogramming or suspension under article 23 of the common provisions regulation may only be applied in exceptional situations and must be proportionate and thoroughly justified and must be implemented with caution, with a clear indication of the programmes or priorities to which they relate. it is further emphasised that such decisions should not exacerbate the difficulties faced by regions and member states due to the socio-economic environment or due to geographical location and specificities within the meaning of articles 174 and 349 tfeu. the document further emphasises that, in principle, reprogramming should be avoided in the medium term unless economic conditions deteriorate significantly, that frequent reprogramming would be counterproductive and should be avoided in order not to disrupt the management of the funds or undermine the stability and predictability of the multiannual investment strategy and to avoid any negative effects, including on the use of the esi funds.
written. ‒ good economic governance and financial stability are prerequisites for smart, sustainable and inclusive growth and development which is the ultimate goal of all european union policies and strategies. the esi funds are crucial for the implementation of cohesion policy, which is the eu's main investment and development policy. a stable fiscal and economic environment is a basic prerequisite for the effective and successful implementation of cohesion policy in practice. to ensure this, we must all aim to work well, simplify procedures, improve coordination and coherence of all eu policies and link member states together. in this context, it is also important to trigger all mechanisms to prevent the loss of funds, i.e. the withdrawal of funds granted by member states. i supported the report on the esi funds and good economic governance because without good economic governance, solidarity and partnership, no eu policy can succeed in the long term.
‒ common provisions regulation 1303/2013/eu provides for a mechanism by which the european union monitors the efficient use of funds and the fulfilment of budgetary financing priorities from the european structural and investment funds. the commission has also taken into account the fact that the commission has not yet adopted a decision on the compatibility of the aid with the internal market. given the need to ensure a stable macroeconomic environment that can only increase the effectiveness of cohesion policy, i support the position adopted that the effectiveness of the use of the funds should be assessed through a procedure of verification of good economic governance in accordance with the guidelines for the application of article 23 of the cpr, but only as a last resort due to the necessary flexibility and by consistently applying the sequence of steps prescribed by that article, taking particular account of the existing rules agreed in the stability and growth pact. it is precisely for the sake of stability that significant reprogramming of the use of structural and investment funds should not be allowed to take place uncontrolled and i welcome the respect for the precautionary principle which the commission represents by introducing mandatory consultations if the need for such reprogramming appears, and which is well regulated by that article of the regulation.
written. ‒ in the case of linking the efficiency of the european structural and investment funds with good economic governance under article 23 of the cpr, the main challenge is to ensure that macroeconomic conditionality is limited in terms of reprogramming and suspension of the structural and investment funds. as it cannot be excluded, i agree with the rapporteur and support the request that it be used only as a last resort. the task of economic, social and territorial cohesion is particularly important in times of crisis and should not be undermined by the requirements of effective economic governance. the commission should also be able to use the appropriations entered in the budget to finance the measures referred to in article 3 of regulation (eu) no 1303/2013. the regional, sub-national level of cohesion policy is particularly important, where the security of funds is to be preserved, especially in view of the crisis and the fact that it is often their main source of funding and that they cannot be held accountable for the national macroeconomic situation.
written. ‒ it is important to stress that we are in a crisis period where investment levels are declining and cohesion policy is seen as key to boosting investment in member states and regions. at the same time, multiannual programmes financed by the structural and investment funds require a stable macroeconomic environment, including high-quality governance at all levels. i therefore welcome the commission's cautious approach to the reprogramming that is necessary and its intention to limit the reprogramming to the minimum necessary. frequent reprogramming would be counterproductive and i believe it should be avoided in order not to interfere with the management of the funds and to avoid any negative effects, of which those relating to the usefulness of the esi funds should certainly be singled out. i agree that all decisions relating to rescheduling or suspension pursuant to article 23 of the common provisions regulation should be exceptional, thoroughly justified, proportionate and implemented swiftly in order to ensure transparency and to allow for verification and audit. parliament's involvement should be formalised for the purpose of a clear procedure allowing parliament to be informed at all stages of the adoption of requests for reprogramming or of any proposals and decisions to suspend commitments or payments. i therefore support the report.
written. ‒ cohesion policy is a policy based on the treaty on the functioning of the european union and an expression of european solidarity, aimed at strengthening the eu's economic, social and territorial cohesion and at reducing disparities between regions by promoting balanced and harmonious socioeconomic development. it is also an investment policy that contributes to achieving the europe 2020 objectives of smart, sustainable and inclusive growth. i supported this resolution in plenary precisely because good economic governance and efficient public institutions are the basic prerequisites for sustainable and long-term economic growth, job creation, social and territorial development and reducing disparities between european regions. a stable macroeconomic environment, including high-quality governance at all levels, contributes to the successful implementation of the european structural and investment funds and thus positively contributes to the investment rates affected by the economic and financial crisis.
written. ‒ i supported this report because cohesion policy is an expression of european solidarity and aims to strengthen the eu's economic, social and territorial cohesion and, in particular, to reduce disparities between regions by promoting balanced and coherent socioeconomic development. good governance and efficient public institutions are essential prerequisites for sustainable and long-term economic growth, job creation and social and territorial development. economic and financial unpredictability and legal uncertainty can lead to declining levels of public and private investment and thus jeopardise the achievement of the objectives of cohesion policy. the cohesion policy is of particular importance in areas where the rate of investment has fallen significantly due to the economic and financial crisis. the current legislative framework for cohesion policy is subject to specific tasks, objectives and horizontal rules. the european structural and investment funds aim to enhance coordination, complementarity and synergies with other eu policies and instruments.
written. ‒ taking into account, inter alia, the focus of the current legal framework of the european structural and investment funds (esi funds) on strengthening coordination, complementarity and synergies with other eu policies and instruments, as well as the commission's communication on guidelines on the application of measures linking the effectiveness of the european structural and investment funds to sound economic governance, the european parliament calls on the commission to report on the results achieved by applying article 23 of the cpr. furthermore, parliament welcomes information on the impact of the application of that article in the context of the review of its application under paragraph 17 of the same article, including the provision of more detailed information on the extent to which reprogramming requests were based on the implementation of the relevant country-specific and council recommendations or enhanced the impact of the esi funds available to member states under the financial assistance programmes for growth and competitiveness, as well as the provision of data on any suspended amounts and relevant programmes. i support this report.
mr. president, mr. commissioner, the migrant crisis has shown the complete vulnerability, or rather, the vulnerability of our borders. no one can say with certainty that people who are not registered and people who we don't know are in our country have not entered the territory of the european union because let's be realistic, let's be honest, in many ways they are citizens who fled from war and fear and entered the territory of the european union. we need smart borders, because surely barbed wire or other wires or other fences are not smart borders. i therefore support this intention to clear up our external borders as quickly and efficiently as possible, together and in cooperation with the member states, so that we can really guarantee the security that we regrettably feel less and less today for the citizens of the european union.
mr president, although we are among those who advocate that europol and cepol and other agencies dealing with security issues in the european union should somehow join forces or at least coordinate their work closely, i must say here that the fight against crossborder smuggling, terrorism and all that is carried by organised crime, which of course knows no borders, is of the utmost importance. commissioner, i want to draw your attention to the fact that this migrant crisis has also shown that the western balkans is one of those areas where we have major problems. organized crime, the balkan routes, whatever you call it, they definitely do exist. and that is why it is important to involve all those police forces and other institutions in the candidate and potential candidate countries in cepol, because cross-border crime and terrorism know no borders, and these countries are at the heart of the european union.
vice-president of the commission.– madam president, this was a very necessary and useful debate. i would like to underline that the commission is taking the issues raised in the draft solution seriously. where it is within our competence, the commission is already acting in order to ensure the fundamental rights enshrined in this charter are fully respected. this comprises a speedy conclusion of the data protection reform, as well as various projects under the digital market initiative. it also includes a swift response to the court of justice judgment on the commissionʼs safe harbour decision in the max schrems case. to this effect, i assure you that the commission is engaged in intensive discussions with our us counterparts. i am confident that we will find the right answers and solutions to ensure an adequate protection of the fundamental rights guaranteed by the charter.
madam president, i'm not sure this is a point of order, but i do have one small request. can you check if this room is by far the coldest room in the european parliament? i see a couple of my colleagues here who already have tissues. i beg you colleague, do not laugh because it is a very serious question, and funny is what you say usually. i had a big problem last time and i got sick the last time i was in the plenary because i'm one of the people who sits in the plenary the most. please try to check, this room is by far the coldest room in this house.
mr. president, i asked you to speak simply because i am in this room all the time and different presidents are different in the way they conduct this session. this gentleman was speaking earlier, he had his speaking time. now he's asking the questions. he's already put up three blue cards, they're putting up each other. some presidents who preside don't allow this practice, so i ask that you as the presidency establish the practice, not that the clubs ask each other questions just to promote each other. or the man who just spoke is putting a blue card on this lady. well, that doesn't make any sense. we'll be here until tomorrow morning.
mr president, i welcome and congratulate the vice-president of the european commission, mr dombrovskis, on his efforts to speed up the european semester procedure and also on the changes he has introduced in the exchange of best practices and knowledge between member states with a view to accelerating the implementation of reforms across europe. i congratulate my colleague, mr rosati, on an excellent report and on important messages for all member states, but also for all of us. we have a shared responsibility to create an innovative europe that grows at a much faster rate than before, that retains and attracts talent, that is at the forefront of innovation, technology and creativity. the european semester, or the european commission, cannot do the work on the ground, or in the member states. the european semester is a strategic mechanism to link economic policies and to encourage member states to change, and it is up to us, the member states, to implement the changes and to succeed together.
mr president, coordinating 28 economic and social policies is certainly not a thankful job and not an easy one. however, there is no objective alternative. that is why i see the european semester as a real mechanism that, if nothing else, allows us to see what the differences between us are and how we can achieve better development. what i want to stress on this occasion is certainly the need you mentioned, mr commissioner, which is access to finance for smes. we can't build the whole economy on small and medium-sized enterprises alone, of course we need big enterprises. however, i would like to emphasise the very vitality, importance and flexibility of smes. i therefore invite you to focus your efforts on financing small and medium-sized enterprises, in the same spirit as we aim to boost europe's economy, especially in those countries that are still struggling to find their way out of the crisis.
on behalf of the verts/ale club. madam president, honourable commissioner bulc, ladies and gentlemen, first of all i would like to thank rapporteur foster for her excellent cooperation in the preparation of this report. the european union has a task to develop a legislative framework that will exclusively address the civilian use of unmanned aerial vehicles as soon as possible. the legislative framework should guarantee investment and the development of a competitive european civil drone sector and clearly distinguish between professional use of remotely piloted drones and their recreational use. the potential for economic growth in this sector is enormous. it encourages the development of innovative technologies with a high potential for job creation, in particular green jobs, both in large corporations and in thousands of small and medium-sized enterprises. the commission shall be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 26 to supplement this regulation by laying down detailed rules for the application of this regulation. the european legislative framework must enable innovation and the development of the sector in the best possible conditions, with effective protection of property and persons, as well as of citizens' personal data and privacy. finally, we must not forget the limited resources we have and the protection of the environment. this new sector is an ideal opportunity to start applying the principles of the circular economy right from the start, and to propel drones using propellant that will not impair air quality and increase greenhouse gas emissions.
madam president, allow me, madam commissioner, and madam rapporteur, to clearly support this report because the drone market really has fantastic development opportunities, especially those that will serve in a better quality of life, in a better quality of commercial use of drones, not just in military use. but what i want to warn you about are two things, because it's definitely clear that there's a potential for misuse of drones, especially when they become part of, so to speak, everyday life and in everyday use in the millions of pieces that will fly for us. the first problem is identifying the drones. so who owns these drones, ownership of the drones, because there's the possibility of misuse of the drones, of course. and the second thing i want to highlight is the cross-border use of drones, because we have the possibility of one drone coming to the border, recording everything that's happening in another country, and that's where we come to the security issues.
on behalf of the alde club. madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to begin by thanking mrs de monte for her good cooperation, as well as the other rapporteurs and the excellent report before us. tourism is an important part of europe's economy, and europe is an outstanding tourist destination and we must do everything we can to ensure that, in the face of new markets and new technologies, europe remains the best and most important tourist destination in the world. i therefore welcome this report from the european parliament, which seeks to take a holistic view of tourism, to work in a coordinated way to develop tourism in europe and, of course, to achieve a common, high-quality european tourism product. on behalf of the alde group, i of course support the content of the report, but i would like to stress two dimensions which are interrelated. this appropriation is intended to cover the financing of the european schools in the member states and the european schools in the union. with better internet coverage of these rural, mountainous and remote areas, we will achieve two very important goals. we will reduce the seasonality of european tourism as a first objective and reduce the development gap between these areas and the rest of the urban areas of our continent.
madam president, why is european tourism losing out in the world market, why are we losing out in the world market match? because tourism is not a subject in this parliament, it is not a subject in the commission, it is not a subject at european level. it's all up to the member states, as the first problem, the second problem - there's no real public-private partnership at the european level. we have different standards, we have different financing situations, we have different vat rates, we have a complete chaos when we talk about tourism in europe. what i want to emphasize is the success that croatia has in tourism. because there's a good system of tourist communities, because there's a great system of public-private partnerships, and then of course we have success in tourism. i am advocating that we form a joint coordinating body, let's call it the european tourism community, not with new employees, but a joint coordinating body for tourism europe.
madam vice president, i'm pleased to have a commissioner here today who i trust will understand this problem of mine. i think the biggest problem with tourism, specifically in croatia where i come from, and from these other countries, is seasonality. so there is huge potential in tourism, and therefore for job creation and for overall growth. in particular, croatia has 17% of its gross national product from tourism. i'm sure it can double that, but the problem is seasonality, and that's why we need to maximize the potential of investments that are definitely needed, but of course investments that will be sustainable, not investments at any cost to the detriment of the environment and so on, climate change that we're talking about these days. but we can also compete with the far eastern countries that are growing today, and we can still get tourists from their countries along the way. that is what i think europe should do, and that is why we should perhaps really in some way make a single european tourism policy. although i agree with my colleagues who said that we are different and that we certainly cannot provide a level playing field, we can create a level playing field for vat and other conditions in order to sustain ourselves as europe and remain the most competitive in tourism.
mr president, i have supported this report because i share the view of many experts who say that the recent ebola outbreak has taken us by surprise and that we, as europe, but acting within the united nations, could have done much more to prevent and control the spread of the disease, as 28 515 people have been infected and as many as 11 313 people have died. although the potential and danger of the haemorrhagic fever virus has been known for years and the epidemic has recurred from time to time in this part of africa, i believe that since the last outbreak, in uganda in 2001, more could have been done in terms of education and prevention. aid to developing countries is therefore crucial to ensure that epidemics are stopped and acted upon in a rapid and effective manner. training of staff, development of systems, exchange of data, renewal of health system infrastructure and education of the population on the ways of infection and prevention of its spread are necessary and necessary.
mr president, i supported this resolution because i believe that falsifying data to defraud the competent supervisory authorities and customers breaches trust and undermines the hard-won reputation of the european automotive industry globally. the industry and the sector as a whole depend on millions of employees and their family members across europe. unacceptable and irresponsible behaviour should be severely sanctioned and test methods adapted to the needs of today. i am pleased that the european commission is preparing a new act on real driving emission measurement. i regret that the possibility of fraud was not taken seriously enough and that the fraud was not detected in time to preserve a clean image of european industry and european climate policy. in the situation we are in, we need to work together to restore confidence in the european automotive industry. we will do this by supporting the deterrent penalties that fraudsters will have to face and by establishing appropriate test procedures that give the true emissions situation in real driving conditions.
the commission has proposed that member states should be able to restrict the use of genetically modified food and feed on their territory. i therefore voted to reject this proposal and ask the commission to submit a new proposal to parliament within a reasonable time. as there is no consensus on this issue at eu level, i am in favour of the member states having the right to decide for themselves on the use of gmos in their national territory and it is essential that the proposal for a directive should make this possible. i am naturally pleased that my amendment, which i tabled with other colleagues, was adopted, and which calls on the commission to submit a new text of the proposal for a regulation. this is important because today over 150 regions and 4 500 local authorities across europe have asked to be granted gmo-free status and to be able to decide for themselves how they want to approach the issue in their area. i also want to see us as members of parliament and the commission, but also the rapporteurs in the member states, listening more to the voice of the public and the voice of farmers, and the voice of the public and the voice of farmers is against gmos.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the draft legislative resolution of the european parliament on the proposal for a regulation of the parliament and of the council establishing the european union agency for law enforcement training (cepol) and repealing and replacing council decision 2005/681/jha, as i consider that the provision of quality training for police officers is essential for the internal security of the eu. the increasing threat of international and organised crime requires more effective and consistent cooperation between police authorities across the union. i believe that the legislative framework of cepol needs to be modernised to achieve this and that the activities of cepol should be implemented at eu level, not just as a platform for cooperation between member states, and i therefore support this report.
written. ‒ the eu's internal security needs are constantly growing, resulting in the need to create new police forces and police officers. highly trained officials could play a key role in future challenges and in keeping eu citizens safe, particularly in the area of international and organised crime. the european police college shall be responsible for the legal implementation of the training held throughout the union. the commission's role is to define and address gaps in police training in cross-border matters, and it has a budget of only eur 8,5 million. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's macro-financial assistance to the countries of central and eastern europe, including the countries of the former soviet union, and to monitor the implementation of the union's macro-financial assistance to the countries of central and eastern europe. the european police college shall be responsible for the implementation of the tasks assigned to it by the treaty on european union. i supported the report of mp kinge gál because it is necessary to strengthen cross-border cooperation in the fight against crime in order to maintain public security and public order, and this can only be done by well-trained officials. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's policy on the prevention of and fight against corruption and organised crime.
written. ‒ the european police college (cepol), established in 2005 as an eu agency by council decision 2005/681/jha1, is entrusted with training activities for senior police officers. it aims to facilitate cooperation between national police forces by organising courses with a european dimension in policing. it also sets common guidelines on specific topics, disseminates research and best practice, coordinates exchange programmes for senior police officers and instructors and may participate in specific projects as a partner of eu grant beneficiaries. the eu has seen a rise in serious and organised crime over the past decade. the fight against transnational crime can only be achieved through cross-border cooperation between the police, customs, border police and other bodies. if those bodies are not adequately trained and if there is not enough mutual trust, their cooperation will not be effective. in such a context, the strategic and operational objectives in the fight against organised and serious cross-border crime and terrorism need to be supported by consistent, recognised and high-quality training in specialised and priority areas at central level for eu law enforcement officials involved in transnational cooperation.
written. ‒ i support the report by mrs kinge gal on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council establishing a european union agency for law enforcement training (cepol) and repealing council decision 2005/681/jha. cepol's activities have been redefined to raise awareness and knowledge of international and european law enforcement instruments, of union bodies and in particular europol, eurojust and frontex, their actions and roles, and of the legal aspects of police cooperation. cepol shall promote common respect for and understanding of fundamental rights in law enforcement including data privacy, data protection and the protection of victims and witnesses. the main objectives of cepol are to strengthen the network of cooperation between law enforcement agencies in managing illegal immigration flows and to develop, coordinate and implement training to support member states and participate in union missions. the commission shall be assisted by the european parliament and the council, acting by a qualified majority on a proposal from the commission, and shall be assisted by the european parliament and the council. in order to guarantee the full autonomy and independence of cepol and to enable it to carry out the objectives and tasks entrusted to it properly, a sufficient amount of revenue is necessary, deriving mainly from a contribution from the union budget.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, but this explanation of vote is a criticism of the existing system of evaluating the work of meps in the european parliament solely on the basis of the statistical number of parliamentary activities promoted in croatia, which does not actually reflect the actual quality and quantity of work, efficiency and above all the success of the representative action.
written. ‒ i supported this report because the eu has seen a rise in serious and organised crime over the last decade and the emergence of a growing variety of causes of crime. the fight against transnational crime can only be achieved through cross-border cooperation between the police, customs, border police and other bodies. if those bodies are not adequately trained and if there is not enough mutual trust, their cooperation will not be effective. the fight against organised and serious cross-border crime and terrorism needs to be supported by consistent, recognised and high-quality training, in specialised and priority areas at central level, for eu law enforcement officials involved in transnational cooperation. providing law enforcement officials at all levels with the knowledge and skills needed to effectively prevent and combat cross-border crime through effective cooperation with colleagues in other member states, eu agencies, third countries and international organisations is essential to improve the general social situation.
written. ‒ i support the initiative of the european parliament and the council to establish a european union agency for law enforcement training (cepol). i support the initiative as i believe that cepol is needed to improve cooperation between law enforcement authorities in the union in the areas of prevention, detection and investigation of criminal offences, peace and order and police missions. cepol should do so by placing particular emphasis on the protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms in the context of law enforcement. such training at union level shall be targeted at thematic areas of clear added value for the union and shall be available to law enforcement officials at all levels and from all member states.
written. ‒ i support this report and the efforts to make securities transactions even more transparent and with even more control than before. the report highlights a number of measures that should further improve transparency in securities transactions, ranging from the extension of the scope of the regulation, to reporting obligations, etc.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the draft legislative resolution of the european parliament on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the reporting and transparency of securities financing transactions, given that the trialogue agreement reached is supported, and the proposal aims to strengthen financial stability in the eu by increasing transparency in relation to various banking activities, such as securities financing transactions, including repurchase transactions, securities or commodities lending to another party, securities or commodities lending by another party, transactions involving the purchase of a security and its resale (buy-back-sell) or transactions involving the sale and resale (sell-back) of a security, and collateral swap transactions. the commission shall be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 264 concerning the establishment of a european platform for the exchange of information on the financial markets. the main function of the financial sector should be to channel capital to finance the productive economy, not to speculate with assets. this legislative framework achieves more transparent credit creation and securities reuse, promotes financial stability without the additional administrative burden of managing the funds needed to channel money into the real economy.
written. ‒ the complexity and non-transparency of securities financing transactions make it difficult to identify other counterparties and to monitor risk concentration. the financial stability board and the european systemic risk board have identified the risks posed by securities financing transactions. the new rules should apply in addition to those laid down in directives 2009/65/ec and 2011/61/eu. i supported the report by representative renata sorro because of the importance of publishing all reliable and detailed information related to the use of securities financing transactions. the commission should be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 264 concerning the establishment of a list of the re-use of waste and the recycling of waste.
written. ‒ i believe that more regular reporting and more transparent securities financing transactions would have a significant impact on financial market stability and the safety of investments in financial instruments. the more types of such transactions are covered by the proposal for a regulation dealt with in this report, the more likely it is that financial market activities will be more transparent. the commission should also be able to assess the impact of the proposed amendments on the market for the products concerned. it is for this reason that i agree with the commission's initial legislative proposal that credit institutions and undertakings should inform the public about their activities in securities financing transactions as part of their regular public reporting. the croatian banking system is small and precisely for this reason even more susceptible to external influences and possible manipulations. the commission notes that the bank of croatia has not provided any information on the capital adequacy of the banks in the past. i therefore hope that this proposal for a regulation will raise the level of regulation and reduce the risks associated with securities financing transactions.
written. ‒ i support the report by my colleague, mr renat sorou, on the transparency of securities financing transactions. given that the global economic and financial crisis since 2007 has exposed excessive speculative activity, the union has adopted a number of measures to strengthen and strengthen the banking system, including stricter capital requirements, rules on improved governance and supervision and a resolution mechanism. in this context, progress in establishing the banking union is also decisive. however, the crisis has also highlighted the need to improve transparency and oversight, not only in the traditional banking sector, but also in the areas of non-bank lending activities known as 'banking fringe'. in particular, the lack of transparency in the use of sfts prevented regulators and supervisors as well as investors from properly assessing and monitoring the relevant banking-like risks and the level of interconnectedness in the financial system in the period before and during the financial crisis. in order to ensure an effective regulatory framework for parallel banking, progress in the introduction and enforcement of coherent requirements at international level remains crucial. the commission should report regularly to the european parliament and the council on the g20 roadmap aimed at strengthening the supervision and regulation of comparative banking, and should also present the state of play of measures taken within the union and the main third country jurisdictions.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, but this explanation of vote is a criticism of the existing system of evaluating the work of meps in the european parliament solely on the basis of the statistical number of parliamentary activities promoted in croatia, which does not actually reflect the actual quality and quantity of work, efficiency and above all the success of the representative action.
written. ‒ i supported this report because the global financial crisis that erupted in 2007-2008 revealed speculative activities, important regulatory weaknesses, ineffective supervision, non-transparent markets and overly complex products in the financial system. the union has adopted a number of measures to strengthen and solidify the banking system, such as stricter capital requirements, a resolution mechanism and rules on improved governance and supervision. in this context, progress in establishing the banking union is also crucial. the crisis has also highlighted another thing, which is that transparency is needed not only in the banking system, but also in the areas of non-bank lending activities known as 'banking fringe'. the commission notes that the bank of greece has not provided any evidence that the bank of greece has engaged in any form of illegal activity in the banking sector. it should therefore be recalled that the main function of the financial sector is to channel capital to finance production, not asset speculation.
‒ the global financial crisis of 2008 revealed a number of speculative activities, important regulatory weaknesses, ineffective supervision and non-transparent financial markets. the european union has adopted a number of measures to improve the regulation of the banking system, including stricter capital requirements, more effective supervision, etc. however, supervision and greater transparency are not only needed in the traditional banking sector, but also in the area of non-bank credit activities known as 'banking fringe'. the size of the shadow banking system is already half that of the regulated banking system. the complexity and non-transparency of securities financing transactions make it difficult to identify other counterparties and to monitor risk concentration. all these flaws can contaminate the regulated financial sector. it is important to recall that the main function of the financial sector should be to channel capital to finance the productive economy, not to speculate on assets. i support this proposal because it emphasises better regulation in three main areas: monitoring of the systemic risks associated with securities financing transactions, disclosure of information on such transactions to investors whose assets are involved in such transactions, and contractual transparency in situations where financial institutions use their clients' collateral for their own borrowing.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution - follow-up to the adoption of the european parliament resolution on the electronic mass surveillance of eu citizens on 12 march 2014, as this is an important issue that needs more attention and faster decision-making, given that the rapid development of technology also brings new opportunities for abuse and threatens the interests and rights of citizens. the commission therefore welcomes the initiatives of various institutions to raise public awareness of electronic mass surveillance. the commission has also been asked to provide information on the implementation of the eu's new rules on the protection of personal data. it is emphasised that both the data protection regulation and the data protection directive are necessary to protect the fundamental rights of individuals and should therefore be treated as a package to be adopted at the same time. this resolution calls for the urgent suspension of the 'safe harbor' decision as it fails to provide adequate protection of eu citizens' personal data. welcomes the initiatives of the private ict sector in terms of the development of cryptographic security solutions and internet services that enhance privacy. this is considered to continue to jeopardise the fundamental rights of eu citizens and to have done too little to ensure their full protection in the area of electronic mass surveillance.
written. ‒ in the resolution, parliament calls on eu member states and the us authorities to end mass surveillance and the collective processing of citizens' personal data and expresses dissatisfaction with the actions of intelligence services that affect citizens' fundamental rights and their trust in the system. this proposal also expresses concern about the possible existence of other motives such as political espionage. these are the reasons for the need to launch fundamental rights protection in the digital age. compliance with the charter of fundamental rights of the european union is important and the level of consumer protection should not be lower than that established by directive 95/46/ec. the resolution calls, inter alia, on the commission to ensure the protection of all data transferred to the us, to ensure that national parliaments, on the basis of a thorough analysis, exercise oversight over intelligence activities and to prepare a european strategy for greater it independence. i supported the european parliament resolution because it is essential to ensure citizens' privacy and the right to freedom of opinion and expression in the digital age, and for this we need dialogue with civil society and restoring lost trust.
written. ‒ the absence of a clear definition of national security leaves room for arbitrariness and allows eu executive and intelligence communities to violate fundamental rights and the rule of law. i believe it is important that the services do their extremely complex jobs and protect us, but it is important to be alert to the obvious threat to the fundamental rights to privacy and the protection of personal data in a situation where any information about human behaviour is considered potentially useful in deterring future criminal offences, which necessarily results in a culture of mass surveillance in which every citizen is treated as a potential suspect, which undermines social cohesion and trust in the service. they should not exceed their authority. the commission should be able to impose a fine of up to eur 50000 per year for the use of the surveillance technology. the eu should contribute to the development of international principles at un level in line with the un international covenant on civil and political rights in order to establish a global data protection framework, including specific restrictions on data collection for national security purposes.
written. ‒ parliament earlier in the resolution called on the us and eu member state authorities to prohibit general mass surveillance activities and the mass processing of citizens' personal data and condemned reported intelligence activities that seriously undermined the trust of eu citizens as well as their fundamental rights. the resolution also warns of the possible existence of other motives, such as political and economic espionage, given the capacities of the mass surveillance programme it has been informed of. one of the outcomes of that resolution was the launch of the 'european digital habeas corpus for the protection of fundamental rights in the digital age' programme with eight specific activities and the instruction to the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs to report to parliament within one year on the extent to which the recommendations had been implemented. the data protection regulation and the data protection directive are necessary to protect the fundamental rights of individuals and should therefore be seen as a package and adopted simultaneously in order to guarantee a high level of protection of all data processing activities in the eu in all circumstances. the adoption of the package should aim at strengthening the rights and protection of individuals with regard to the processing of their personal data. the recent ruling declaring the existing safe harbour agreement invalid is the best reminder of the urgency of the situation and the urgent need for our response to protect the fundamental right of our citizens to the protection of their data.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, but this explanation of vote is a criticism of the existing system of evaluating the work of meps in the european parliament solely on the basis of the statistical number of parliamentary activities promoted in croatia, which does not actually reflect the actual quality and quantity of work, efficiency and above all the success of the representative action.
written. ‒ we need a common definition of national security so that the european union and the member states can guarantee legal certainty and prevent violations of citizens' fundamental rights and the rule of law. i consider that the fundamental rights to privacy and the protection of personal data continue to be undermined and that insufficient steps have been taken to ensure the full protection of citizens in the event of electronic mass surveillance. i call for the development, within initiatives such as the digital single market, of a european strategy for greater it independence and privacy on the internet that will drive the growth of the it industry in the eu, and therefore i do not support this proposal.
written. ‒ i voted against the report on the european semester for economic policy coordination, as the key alde amendments were not accepted.
written. ‒ implementing specific recommendations, fiscal consolidation, structural reforms and stimulating investment have helped member states to reduce debt, deficits and unemployment and to achieve higher economic growth rates. and that's confirmed by the spring economic forecast. the growth rate for 2016 is forecast to be 2,1% in the european union and 1,9% in the euro area. although unemployment remains very high, the commission has projected that it will decrease to 9,2% in the european union and 10,5% in the euro area in 2016. the debt-to-gdp ratio is expected to increase by 0.1% in 2016 and to decrease by 0.1% in 2016. i supported the report by mr rosati, in particular because of the importance of the european semester as a strategic mechanism to link economic policies and to encourage member states to implement structural reforms in the fields of labour market, education, public administration, innovation and entrepreneurship, with the aim of building a competitive and growing european union economy.
written. ‒ the european semester report highlights positive expectations such as a slowly strengthening economic recovery and a gdp growth projection for 2016, but also warns of regional economic disparities and weaknesses, as well as uneven growth and weak international competitiveness. i welcome the commission's recommendations for 2015 and call for an even stronger commitment to the fulfilment of the proposed priorities, in particular those aimed at reducing the high level of youth unemployment, which also affects us in croatia. the percentage of unemployed young people aged 18-30 in croatia exceeds 40%. i also believe that it would be good to introduce stricter controls on the implementation of the european semester, i.e. the implementation of recommendations by member states, in order to accelerate economic recovery and to level out economic growth. in croatia, especially in the last few months, there has been a wide debate about the inadequacy of the state education system to the current needs of the labour market, which has a significant impact on unemployment. i take this opportunity to call on the commission to take this into account in its future recommendations. given the overall context of the report, its positive and negative aspects, and the impossibility of reaching a compromise, i have remained reserved about the text of the resolution.
written. ‒ one of the important problems of economic policy coordination at union level is the very low level of implementation of csr recommendations by member states. for this reason, i support the efforts under this report on the implementation of the 2015 priorities to involve national parliaments at an earlier stage in the european semester process, to make recommendations with more precise proposals and to publish them earlier, and perhaps most importantly, to take greater account of the social dimension of the whole process, especially in the context of structural reforms. only closer cooperation between member states, the exchange of good practices and greater involvement of national actors can ensure the efficiency and democratic legitimacy of this process. while there are signs of economic recovery and growth at eu level, much remains to be done to achieve policy priorities in economic cooperation. in this light, i would highlight some very important social emphases and achievements within the report itself; the emphasis placed on financing and investment through the efsi with the aim of creating quality jobs, achieving social and economic cohesion, reducing inequalities and improving public services; the call for higher wages as a means of fighting poverty and for better quality jobs and the possibility of extending preventive restructuring and debt relief programmes from banks to families in risky situations at risk of homelessness.
written. ‒ i did not support this report, but this explanation of the vote arises as a criticism of the existing system of evaluating the work of meps in the european parliament solely on the basis of the statistical number of parliamentary activities promoted in croatia, which does not actually reflect the actual quality and quantity of work, efficiency and above all the success of the representative action.
written. ‒ the union's economic recovery is slowly strengthening and gdp growth in the european union is expected to reach 2,1% in 2016. however, the recovery rests on fragile foundations, mainly due to structural weaknesses and wide regional economic disparities. many member states face similar macroeconomic challenges, the most important of which are high levels of debt (public and private) that discourage investment and weak competition. we need a coordinated approach to tackling these problems and i welcome the commission's recommendation that focuses on four main priorities for economic growth: stimulating investment, implementing structural reforms in product, service and labour markets, fiscal responsibility and improving employment policies. we need to provide more efficient access to finance, especially for small and medium-sized enterprises, which form the backbone of the eu economy. i welcome the reduction in youth unemployment rates, but i stress that they are still a concern in many member states, including croatia, which is third in the list of countries with the highest percentage of unemployed young people according to a new report by the international labour organisation. i call on member states to make effective use of all available means to implement the youth employment initiative. i support this report and appreciate the commission's work on simplifying the european semester procedure and call for more decisive efforts to align and coordinate the economic policies of the member states.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution on the council recommendation on the integration of the long-term unemployed into the labour market, as long periods of unemployment progressively distance people from the labour market, create an erosion of skills and professional contacts and contribute to a loss of work rhythm. among the many disadvantages, undoubtedly, too long absence from the labour market increases mental and physical health problems, leads to social exclusion, problems with retirement and, in the worst case, the transmission of poverty to the next generation. i think it is important to act when a person has been unemployed for a full 12 months, when 18 months of unemployment is already the time to take urgent measures to register the long-term unemployed through employment offices and to ensure an assessment of individual potential, needs and preferences for work.
written. ‒ due to the effects of the economic crisis, long-term unemployment has doubled since 2007, reaching as many as 12 million people, or 5% of the union's active population. the commission is also concerned that the current situation in the eu is not conducive to the implementation of the eu's commitments to the united nations. it calls for the acceleration of the registration of the long-term unemployed through the employment office, the assessment of needs and individual potential before they reach 18 months of unemployment. the long-term unemployed need counselling and preparation for a successful re-entry into the labour market. the commission is invited to consider possibilities for faster access to eu funds and to mobilise additional resources and to maintain good cooperation with member states, and member states are invited to take into account regional differences in the preparation of plans. i supported the european parliament's motion for a resolution because it is urgently needed to tackle the problem of long-term unemployment. croatia is among the member states with the highest long-term unemployment rate.
written. ‒ i supported this resolution because it is necessary to accelerate the economic recovery which is currently not providing sufficient impetus to reduce the high rate of unemployment, one of the burning problems that negatively affects the individual, leading to poverty, inequality and social exclusion. it disproportionately affects vulnerable groups of people who are disadvantaged in the labour market, both in croatia and in other eu member states. more than 12 million people are long-term unemployed in the eu, representing 5% of the working population, with croatia among the member states with the highest rates, with as many as half of all unemployed being long-term unemployed. furthermore, because of the unsuccessful job search, one in five people lose confidence, become discouraged, and become inactive in their job search, which then reflects on their families. statistics show that in 2014, in the countries of the european union, more than 60% of the long-term unemployed had not worked for at least two consecutive years! the commission should also be able to provide information on the impact of the measures taken on the long-term unemployed, including those who are not registered with the employment services. it is important to target short-term unemployment (less than 12 months), especially among young people, to involve other actors such as ngos working with the long-term unemployed and to motivate employers to actively start offering vacancies to them.
written. ‒ due to the economic crisis and its consequences, long-term unemployment has doubled since 2007 and now accounts for half of total unemployment, i.e. more than 12 million people, or 5% of the eu's working population. in 2014 alone, more than 60% of the long-term unemployed had not worked for at least two consecutive years. these are alarming figures which call for urgent action by the european union, which is why i support the european parliament's dorpinos and the adoption of this resolution. i also welcome the commission's initiative to propose a council recommendation on the integration of the long-term unemployed into the labour market, as earlier publication of the proposal and reaching consensus in the council could partially prevent the long-term unemployment we are witnessing today. it is essential that programmes for the reintegration of the long-term unemployed into the labour market are targeted at labour market needs and designed in close cooperation with the social partners.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, but this explanation of vote is a criticism of the existing system of evaluating the work of meps in the european parliament solely on the basis of the statistical number of parliamentary activities promoted in croatia, which does not actually reflect the actual quality and quantity of work, efficiency and above all the success of the representative action.
written. ‒ i supported this report because in the period after the economic crisis, long-term unemployment has doubled. more than 12 million people, i.e. 5% of the eu's working population, are long-term unemployed, and in 2014 more than 60% of the long-term unemployed had not worked for at least two consecutive years. each year, one out of five unemployed persons completely stops looking for work. the unemployment rate at this level is alarming. what member states need is to ensure quality jobs for the long-term unemployed and avoid their precarious employment. although the social, economic and budgetary conditions of the member states vary widely, the long-term unemployed constitute a very heterogeneous group and therefore the differences that unemployment brings need to be addressed. a large number of people begin to lose confidence in themselves and thus fail to reach their personal potential.
written. ‒ the great recession has caused long-term unemployment, which has doubled since 2007 and is thought to account for half of total unemployment, or more than 12 million people, representing 5% of the eu's working population. the long-term unemployment rate varies considerably between member states, with austria's rate of 1.5% and greece's 19.5%. the member states with the highest long-term unemployment rates are italy, portugal, slovakia, croatia and greece. it is therefore necessary to continue to work on an economic recovery which at the moment is still failing to significantly reduce the high rates of structural unemployment, and i therefore support this proposal.
written. ‒ the use of remotely piloted aircraft systems, commonly known as drones or drones, has increased rapidly over the last 15 years, and those designed for hobby and recreation are becoming increasingly popular. this technology was developed primarily for military purposes, but now it's being applied for commercial purposes, pushing the boundaries of regulation. accordingly, its use needs to be regulated at eu level in a high-quality manner.
written. ‒ i voted for the report on the safe use of remotely piloted aircraft systems (rpas), commonly known as drones, in civil aviation because this market opens up great opportunities for future investment, innovation and job creation. of course, i think that very clear legislative frameworks and european and world regulations for such remote-controlled aircraft systems (rpas) need to be set up to ensure their adequate use and the development of this competitive european sector of benefit to society. furthermore, member states should provide certain training to professional users and owners of remote-controlled aircraft systems and provide manuals or product information that clearly explain the rules at national and eu level applicable to the use of such a system, including in particular the rules on privacy and data protection and security.
written. ‒ remote control of small model aircraft has been active for decades, with an increased increase occurring in the last 15 years with the advent of unmanned aircraft. this technology, originally designed for military use, is now being used for commercial use and, because of its investment, innovation and job creation potential, has great potential for economic growth, so i supported the report by mep jacqueline foster. the commission shall be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 26 to supplement this regulation by laying down detailed rules for the application of this regulation. the rules should cover them as a new type of aircraft based on the risk of each operation, then prescribe the safe provision of services, develop the technology of full involvement in european airspace and highlight the responsibility of the users for its use. i supported the report by ms foster calling for the adoption as soon as possible of new legislation relating to the use of remotely piloted aircraft systems in civil society in order to ensure innovation and competitiveness and the safety of our citizens through the correct identification and use of rpas.
written. ‒ the technology of remote controlled aircraft systems has advanced considerably in recent times and it is imperative to exploit its potential. we can already see its application and benefits in agriculture, in hazardous and crisis situations, and in the daily lives of citizens. the commission has already started to develop a legislative framework for some member states and it is necessary to create a common legal framework in order to achieve economic growth and become competitive in this segment as well, as the eu has been lagging behind the us and israel in this segment recently. i believe that the creation of a legislative framework will strengthen the market in the european union, generate economic growth and create new jobs, especially in combination with other technologies. the commission should be able to assess the compatibility of the measures with the union's internal market and with the union's international obligations. however, the potential misuse of this technology, in particular the impact on the privacy and physical integrity of citizens, should also be considered. the safety of the public should come first.
written. ‒ technology developed primarily for military purposes is now being applied for commercial purposes, pushing legislative boundaries. the commission notes that the rpas are designed to provide a range of services to the public, including the provision of information on the safety of aircraft, the safety of the environment and the safety of the environment. the commission should also be able to assess the impact of the measures on the environment and the environment-related activities of the union, in particular the impact of the measures on the environment and the environment-related activities of the union. the commission notes that the rpas industry is not only a major user of rpas, but also a major user of rpas. given the growing importance and usability of rpas, i support the five key principles for the future development of rpas set out in the riga declaration: rpas should be covered by proportionate regulation as a new type of aircraft based on the risk of each operation; eu regulations on the safe provision of rpas services should be developed to allow investment in this sector; technology should be developed and standards developed to allow for the full integration of rpas into european airspace; public acceptance is key to growth in the area of rpas services; the user of rpas is responsible for its use.
written. ‒ the commission proposes to address the safe operation of remotely piloted aircraft systems (rpas) in future european policy frameworks. the commission notes that the commission has not provided any evidence that the measures in question are imputable to the state. the new standards regulate the operation of government rpas operations to cover security, privacy, data protection, insurance and liability. the commission aims to enable european industry to become a global leader in new technologies. the legislative proposal should be adopted by the end of 2015, where the commission sets out new standards covering the following areas: eu rules on security of authorisation representing the responsibility of easa (european aviation safety agency) in developing eu standards for rpas and privacy and data protection, controls to ensure security (especially in information protection where legal obligations are involved, such as air traffic management, telecom operators and services), and a clear framework for liability and assurance. for all these reasons, i support the report of rapporteur jacqueline foster.
written. ‒ the use of remotely piloted aircraft systems (rpas), commonly known as drones, has increased rapidly over the past 15 years. technology developed primarily for military purposes is now being applied for commercial purposes, pushing the legislative boundaries. the commission should be able to assess the compatibility of the rpas with the union market in accordance with article 4 of regulation (eu) no 965/2012. the potential for economic growth of this sector is enormous and it should therefore be the task of the european union to develop, on the basis of a risk analysis, a clear legislative framework, covering only the civil use of rpas, in the shortest possible time, in order to guarantee investment and the development of a competitive european rpas sector. i supported the implementation of this report because it opens up a new market offering significant opportunities for investment, innovation and job creation throughout the supply chain. the commission will also continue to monitor the implementation of the union's macro-financial assistance to the countries of central and eastern europe, in particular the countries of the former soviet union, the countries of the former soviet union, the countries of the former soviet union and the countries of central and eastern europe.
written. ‒ i supported this report because there have been people operating small radio-controlled aircraft for years, as the use of remotely piloted aircraft systems (rpas) known as drones has increased rapidly over the last 15 years. also, small rpass designed for hobby and recreation are becoming more popular. the commission should also be able to assess the compatibility of the proposed amendments with the union's legal framework, in particular with the requirements of the regulation on the protection of natural persons with regard to the processing of personal data by the union institutions and bodies, and with the requirements of the regulation on the protection of natural persons with regard to the processing of personal data by the union institutions and bodies, and with the requirements of the regulation on the protection of natural persons with regard to the processing of personal data by the union institutions and bodies, and with the requirements of the regulation on the protection of natural persons with regard to the processing of personal data by the union institutions and bodies, and with the requirements of the regulation on the protection of natural persons with regard to the processing of personal data by the union institutions and bodies. i also believe that the potential for economic growth in this sector is huge, from the producer to the end user, and also huge for large trading companies and for the supply chain of thousands of small and medium-sized enterprises, and also for innovative start-ups.
written. ‒ enthusiasts have been flying small radio-controlled models for decades, and the use of remotely piloted aircraft systems (rpas), commonly known as drones, has increased rapidly in the last 15 years. regulations on rpas exist or are under development in austria, croatia, the czech republic, denmark, france, germany, italy, ireland, poland, spain and the united kingdom, and approved flight schools exist in denmark, the united kingdom and the netherlands. the commission should also be able to provide the necessary information to the member states in order to ensure that the information provided by the member states is used in a proper manner. the commission has also identified a number of potential illegal and unsafe uses of rpas (e.g. rpas converted from a civilian tool into weapons used for military or other purposes or rpas used to interfere with navigation or communication systems). i support this report because i believe that regulation of new technologies is crucial to their safe use and to preventing the privacy and security of eu citizens from being compromised.
written. ‒ the rapporteur acknowledges that the needs and specific requirements of the member states require a clear definition of common objectives and an analysis of the potential and added value of the destination europe brand. the commission has also proposed to amend the list of third countries that are not members of the european union, in order to ensure that the list of third countries that are not members of the european union is not used to discriminate against third countries. citizens often complain to me that during the season there is often a great pressure on the utilities. croatia is coping well with this and a large number of municipalities and cities are building infrastructure adapted to the higher requirements through eu funds. however, the procedure is lengthy and complicated. i therefore proposed to simplify the access to such financing, in particular in the croatian case for waste and waste water. i believe it will benefit domestic and foreign consumers. as many as 95 percent of consumers use the internet to book their annual vacation. we need to ensure that they have access to information in their own language and that their personal and financial data is protected. we must not forget that data is the currency of the new age and that its protection must be ensured.
written. ‒ i voted for the report on new challenges and concepts for promoting tourism in europe given the importance of tourism for european economic development where the european union is the world's leading tourist destination and tourism generates more than 10% of the eu's gdp with almost 10 million employees in 1.8 million businesses. tourism is particularly important as an economic activity in the mediterranean part of the eu where unemployment rates are very high, especially among young people. the commission should pay more attention to tourism, the possibility of using eu funds to improve the tourism economy should be addressed in a more qualitative way. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's policy on tourism and will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's policy on tourism. i believe that the next step in integrating the offer, promoting it more strongly and coordinating activities at european level in a high quality way should be the creation of a european tourism community modelled on similar national tourism authorities.
written. ‒ tourism accounts for more than 10% of the european union's gdp, if tourism-related sectors are taken into account. tourism directly employs 13 million people. europe is the world's most popular tourist destination, and tourism has a far-reaching impact on economic growth, employment and social development. the commission shall be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 290 concerning the establishment of a european network of national authorities responsible for the management of the tourism sector in the union. i supported the report by ms isabelle de monte because of the important role of tourism and in order to find solutions to new challenges such as the digitalisation of distribution channels, the development of a new sector of the sharing economy, the increasing competition from new and cheaper third country destinations and changes in consumer behaviour, and to better position europe as a tourist destination in the world.
written. ‒ i supported the european parliament resolution on new challenges and concepts to boost tourism in europe. the commission will continue to support the development of the tourism sector in croatia, in particular through the development of the tourism sector in the republic of croatia. i particularly support the parts of the resolution which point to the importance of finding a favourable financial impetus for investment in tourism, especially in the part which is based on small and medium-sized enterprises, which include family farms. the identity of europe's tourist offer is based on history, art, religion, culture and tradition, and quality food and drink. the countryside is the best place to protect the traditional, cultural, national and religious identity of the european peoples. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's policy on rural tourism, in particular by ensuring that the union's rural development policy is consistent with the objectives of the union's policy on rural tourism.
written. ‒ coastal and maritime tourism is the largest maritime activity in europe, accounting for more than one third of the maritime economy, directly affecting many other sectors of the eu economy and employing 3.2 million people, mostly aged between 16 and 35. this sector is a lever for growth and job creation, particularly in the atlantic and mediterranean regions. this is especially true in my home country of croatia, where tourism generates almost a quarter of gdp. in view of the exceptional importance of tourism for the european economy, our fundamental objective should be sustainable, accessible and responsible tourism that is in harmony with nature and the environment and urban destinations and that is based on resource efficiency, sustainable mobility and climate protection, helps to protect the local environment, in particular mountain and coastal regions and islands, which will lead to lasting results in terms of regional growth, meets the increasing demands of travellers in terms of quality and helps businesses to compete, as this resolution rightly underlines.
written. ‒ tourism is one of the key areas of potential growth of the european and croatian economy, generating more than 10% of eu gdp if tourism-related sectors are also taken into account. it is also a major employer, directly employing 13 million workers, representing at least 12% of jobs in the eu. the contribution of the tourism policy priorities is linked to the 3 priorities of the juncker commission, namely sustainable growth and jobs, a connected digital single market and a better connected and fairer internal market. the commission shall, by means of implementing acts, lay down the rules on the application of this regulation, in particular the rules on the application of the provisions of this regulation, the rules on the application of the provisions of this regulation and the rules on the application of the provisions of this regulation. i believe it is important to ensure the development of sustainable, responsible and accessible tourism, where natural resources are properly used with new technologies for sustainable development, sustainable jobs and a stable economy. finally, i would like to highlight the unfair neglect of cycling tourism, which brings in considerable profits throughout the year.
written. ‒ i supported this report because i believe that tourism is one of the key socio-economic activities that has a far-reaching impact on economic growth, social development and employment, and i believe that it could contribute more to solving the current economic crisis. the fact that tourism is one of the key drivers of economic growth is also demonstrated by the fact that the sector generates more than 10% of eu gdp when tourism-related sectors are taken into account. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the eu-turkey association agreement and the implementation of the eu-turkey association agreement. the commission will also assess the impact of the new rules on the functioning of the internal market and the impact of the new rules on the functioning of the internal market. furthermore, i believe that tourism plays a significant role in protecting the climate and the local environment, which also leads to long-term sustainable outcomes that lead to positive trends in the economy.
written. ‒ tourism is one of the key areas of potential growth for the european economy, generating more than 10% of eu gdp when tourism-related sectors are taken into account, and is a major driver of employment, directly employing 13 million workers and therefore representing at least 12% of jobs in the eu. in croatia alone, tourism employment increased by 12,6% in 2014. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the new rules and to monitor the implementation of the new rules. the commission therefore intends to ensure a better integration of tourism into its many policies and to ensure that, through the adequate application of the legislation in force, this sector fully exploits its competitiveness potential. i fully support this report because it envisages further development of the tourism sector, and as a citizen of a country where tourism is the main branch of the economy, i am aware of its importance, both for croatia and for the whole european union.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution on the development of satellite technology to establish a global flight tracking system because i believe that after the many air accidents in the last decade, the systems for monitoring and allocating public air transport at any given moment really need to be improved. also, in any emergency or accident in the air, they will be able to respond quickly and provide assistance, even when all options on the plane are disabled and there is a lack of electricity. satellite ads-b technology based on communication between aircraft and satellites is a promising option for developing a successful global surveillance system.
‒ the air france and malaysia airlines accidents highlighted the need for a new system to determine the position of aircraft at any given moment. such global air traffic surveillance would allow for the timely identification and location of aircraft in distress. the commission's action to rapidly develop a global flight tracking system is supported. such a system should remain active after the loss of electrical power and eliminate the possibility of deactivation during flight. the satellite technology of the automatic dependent aircraft surveillance system is important for the development of global surveillance of atm systems. the commission is invited to take the necessary steps to meet the world radiocommunication conference to be held in geneva in 2015. i supported the european parliament resolution because it is necessary to find a way to make search and rescue operations more efficient, given that the existing flight tracking systems cover only 30% of the airspace.
written. ‒ existing flight tracking systems cover only one third of the airspace and therefore it is necessary to increase this coverage. a number of recent airline accidents have made it clear that we need to develop a system that will allow us to track aircraft at any time and in any place. the accurate positioning of aircraft is a prerequisite for the protection of human life in emergency situations or in the event of an accident. the satellite tracking system shall be independent of other technologies and function in all circumstances. that is why i am calling on the international telecommunication union to allocate the necessary radio frequency band at the world radiocommunication conference in november this year. the allocation of the radio frequency band is the first step in the development of an independent flight tracking system for the whole airspace. air transport of passengers and goods is increasing steadily. therefore, additional efforts are needed to ensure that this form of transport remains one of the safest and continues to enjoy the high trust of passengers.
written. ‒ following the tragedies of air france flight af447 (1 june 2009) and malaysia airlines flight mh370 (8 march 2014), it became clear that new systems for determining the position of passenger aircraft at all times, even when they are in remote locations, are needed. the way to do this correctly is underlined by the report by mr cramer, which i have endorsed. measures are needed to ensure that the issue of the timely allocation of the appropriate radio frequency band is not a factor that will hamper the development of ads-b technology. the commission should also be able to assess the effectiveness of the measures taken to ensure that the safety of passengers is not compromised by the lack of adequate security and safety management systems. such a system should function even in the event of an aircraft power failure and there should be no possibility of it being disabled during flight. the commission notes that the airport operator has not provided any evidence that the airport is operating in a market economy.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, but this explanation of vote is a criticism of the existing system of evaluating the work of meps in the european parliament solely on the basis of the statistical number of parliamentary activities promoted in croatia, which does not actually reflect the actual quality and quantity of work, efficiency and above all the success of the representative action.
written. ‒ i supported the report because numerous studies in the field of aviation point to system deficiencies and the need to accurately locate aircraft. the tragic stories of malaysia airlines and air france flight 447 and countless other tragedies are well known. only 30% of the world's air traffic is covered by current tracking systems, making it difficult to track and rescue. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's policy on air traffic control and will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's policy on air traffic control and air traffic management.
the commission will also be presenting a report on the implementation of the new rules on the protection of personal data. following the tragedies of air france flight af447 (1 june 2009) and malaysia airlines flight mh370 (8 march 2014), it became clear that new systems for determining the position of passenger aircraft at all times, even when they are in remote locations, were needed. the commission should also be able to provide the necessary information to the member states and the commission on the implementation of the union's policy on aviation security. i fully support this proposal because it will make air travel even safer.
mr president, this debate, which is taking place before the start of the new cycle of the european semester, is an opportunity to highlight all the good things that we are doing and will continue to do in the new cycle, but also to highlight the weaknesses that we must tackle together. the good and quality steps are simplification of the procedure, focus on a limited number of the most important priorities, early publication of analyses by member state. what are we missing? the commission's communication on the future of the european union's external relations is based on the commission's communication on the future of the european union's external relations. i hope that in the new cycle of the european semester we will make more qualitative progress in strengthening these very elements. the european semester should be organised in a way that is consistent with the objectives of the european semester and with the objectives of the european union. however, there is no need to waste time on trial and error when other member states have already been on the path of finding the best solutions. sharing experience and knowledge in reform implementation, accelerating investment, boosting competitiveness, good financial management, smart fiscal consolidation and so on is our great asset in the european union. and so i welcome the european commission's incentives to help member states by setting up a structural reform support service, a competitiveness committee and a fiscal committee. community and partnership can help us to do what we lack, namely implement the european semester.
mr president, the european union's competitiveness in the global market has declined significantly over the last decade, and a growing number of member states are clamoring for structural reforms to restore their economic stability. the objectives of the european semester in this context are a major step forward. but if we were to look at the european semester as a medical procedure with which we want to cure the european economy, we could say that the correct diagnosis has been made, but ineffective therapy has been prescribed. in croatia, proper structural reforms have not been implemented since independence, and membership in the european union and participation in the european semester has led to the adoption of firefighting measures exclusively, often only for pre-election purposes. i therefore believe that we need to do more to implement concrete measures in the member states, rather than focusing on setting noble goals which, if they are ever achieved, will certainly not be achieved within the planned timeframe. it's exactly the time that neither croatia nor the european union have.
mr. president, what we need is simply economic growth. what the european semester should be focusing on is tackling unemployment, and of course we can only do that with real economic growth. in this context, i want to make it clear that we need complete synergy between the member states, local and regional authorities, all the european institutions, including the european investment bank, other financial institutions, and what i particularly want to stress is the high expectations that the economy and the member states have of the future juncker fund. all these elements have to come together, they have to give synergy to get us to economic growth and to really make this little recovery that we're feeling in some places and not in some places, still allow europe to get back on its feet and in that way we finally see the economy in better shape.
member of the commission.– mr president, this has been a really incredible debate which shows me how important the topic is. in spite of the big challenges, i know that we are going to address it in the best possible way, with all stakeholders included. let me quickly reflect on some of the members’ questions and comments. unfortunately i will not be able to reply to all of them because of the limited time available. i could speak really fast, but then our interpreters would have a real challenge, so i will try to address as many as i can. please send us additional questions if i am not able to respond to everyone. first, the issue raised most frequently was that of the safeguards on fair competition. the commission supports the objective of ensuring fair competition in the aviation sector and we have different tools in order to do this: first, by promoting sound principles of competition enforcement in the bilateral air service agreements, and second, by promoting eu-level air service agreements – especially with important trading partners – that lead to comprehensive agreements and revising the standard ‘fair competition’ clause in order to make it more usable in negotiations with third countries, while ensuring that the exclusive competence of the commission and national competition authorities in applying eu competition rules is fully respected. that will be stated very clearly. the next question related to subsidies. let me underline that the existence of subsidies is alleged and not yet proven. even if subsidies exist, we would need to see whether they have a negative impact on eu companies. that is what we are really after. let us not forget that the loss of competitiveness in the eu aviation industry is due to a number of reasons, from the continued fragmentation of the european air traffic systems and lack of implementation of the single european sky to insufficient infrastructure, and also the lack of a level playing field. the commission intends to address this in the aviation strategy. the next questions were related to regulation 868/2004. so far – which is really interesting – no complaint has been lodged by the eu in the industry under the regulation, despite frequent claims and concerns about unfair practice from third countries. the commission is therefore in the process of finalising the internal revision of regulation 868/2004. a legislative proposal as a follow-up initiative for the aviation strategy could then be expected by early 2016. regarding working conditions, in a competitive air transport market, pressure to reduce operational costs is high, which can have an impact on social matters. the commission, through the aviation strategy, aims to tackle all these challenges. eu aviation players across the entire value chain should be able to benefit fully from the growth potential to allow the maintenance of a strong social agenda and the creation of high—quality jobs. in this context, the most important thing is a very strong social dialogue. i think we established really good conditions for that at the conference on social issues in transport in june 2015. atypical forms of employment was the next most frequently mentioned challenge. it is important to have all the factual and legal elements of the developments on the market to understand the implications of the use of atypical forms of employment in aviation and the implications for the eu aviation policy. to this end, the commission will publish shortly a study on employment and working conditions in air transport and airports. furthermore, the european aviation safety agency (easa) has set up a working group to assess the safety aspects of new business models. training and skills and safety and security in europe meet the highest standards, and they must continue to do so. some skills and competences are not yet widely available and will have to be developed. training should be given a high priority. on this matter, the easa virtual academy is developing into a true european network of accredited aviation training institutions and institutes. common standards regarding the competences of aviation safety inspectors is also a matter we are looking into. the environment: the eu has also put in place powerful regulatory tools, such as the emissions trading scheme, addressing co2 emissions in the eu. a global market—based mechanism should be pursued to achieve carbon-neutral growth from 2020, as well as the option of the first ever co2 standards for aircraft. the challenges of gibraltar were also mentioned, and i would really like to address them. the gibraltar issue risks jeopardising several years’ work of three institutions, while preventing the eu from upholding its commitments in this field. we therefore continue to urge both parties to take a constructive approach and find a pragmatic solution. the aviation strategy should provide the political momentum to make progress in this field, in particular for passenger rights and ses 2+, which many members mentioned. finally, the commission intends to put forward its aviation strategy in early december. this will not be a one—off exercise – there is no magic wand – but it the beginning of a process that should lead us to a strong and competitive aviation sector and an ever-stronger single aviation market. i really look forward to continuing this close cooperation with parliament. i am hopeful that we will achieve a really important breakthrough and that european aviation will continue to be the leader on the european market and globally.
written. the aeronautical industry should remain a strong backbone of the development of the european innovative industry. the commission notes that the airport services agreement between ryanair and ams was signed on 20 june 2013 and that the agreement was signed on 27 june 2013. the european commission must also combat the misconduct of third countries. the commission notes that the airport services agreement with ryanair was signed on 28 june 2012 and that the agreement was signed on 27 june 2012. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's policy on unmanned aerial vehicles (uavs) and will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's policy on unmanned aerial vehicles (uavs).
mr president, let me say at the outset that i have already spoken on a number of occasions here in this parliament about the need for internet freedom to become the fifth european freedom. if we are creating a single market, if we are creating a single currency and if we really want to create a single market, what are we deciding and trying to create that digital single market that is part of the agenda of this commission, then the internet, the use of the internet, the access to the internet, should become the fifth european freedom. this includes, therefore, the right of everyone to access the internet, to use the internet and to have the internet available to everyone in an equal manner. only in this way can we protect the entire european market and every european citizen so that they can truly have the internet as their fifth internet freedom.
madam president, the european parliament has from the outset advocated a comprehensive approach to the refugee crisis and the wave of migration, and in this context we welcomed the establishment of a special fund for africa, modelled on the existing fund for syria. if we expect effective talks and agreements at the la valletta summit, including more effective ways to readmit migrants who are not entitled to asylum. then it is also clear that we must show responsibility and seriousness on our part in funding the funds for africa. this means that the participation of the member states is now expected, after the european commission allocated €1.8 billion, or rather reallocated these funds, mainly from the unused funds of the european development fund. in addition to calling on the member states to finance the funds, i think it is important to mention here the question of the effectiveness of european development cooperation policy. the european commission is expected to provide as precise information and measurable data as possible on the fund's objectives and expected impacts. however, the open question of efficiency must not become an alibi for member states not to do what is right and necessary, namely to finance funds for africa and syria.
madam president, the mutual funds for syria and africa are, i believe, based on nobility and good intentions, but unfortunately they will not contribute to better crisis management in those areas. the measure is an expression of the european union's inability to contribute more effectively to the final solution of the crisis in syria and africa. i fear that such measures towards third countries are counterproductive, while europe itself does not know what it wants. after the initial call for refugees and migrants to come to europe, which was clearly against the wishes of the majority of our citizens, today there are barbed wire and walls within this community between neighbours, partners and friends. what exactly is europe's policy on migrants? how about we make a deal first? without a clear message to migrants that europe can and wants to take in only those whose lives are threatened by the devastation of war, especially women and children, these funds will, i fear, represent a mere waste of taxpayers' money.
madam president, the world is changing dramatically before our eyes. relationships in the world community are different practically every day. i regard what we are discussing today as a late but welcome fire-fighting measure. however, i would like to call on the commission to launch a completely new initiative, a long-term, strategic and new initiative, which i agree should include the united nations, should include all those of our partners who are doing very well in trade and business with the european union, with our economy, with our member countries. there are many, many countries in the world that are doing very little to help solve this problem that europe is facing most. so i think it's very important that the european commission launches a new global world initiative, because this is just a fire-resolution to the situation in syria and some african countries.
the migration crisis is turning into a structural, long-term and complex problem, manifesting itself in political instability and insecurity in europe. the establishment of mutual funds for syria and africa aims to address the root cause of destabilisation and to ensure greater coordination and a more integrated approach to overcoming the migration crisis. data shows that only one in ten refugees migrate to europe, while the rest go to africa, so it makes sense to focus on african countries affected by migration. member states are called upon to show solidarity and provide financial resources. in the context of the economic and financial crisis in europe, it is necessary to highlight to our citizens the importance of funds created to address the root cause of the migration crisis. it is also important that the european commission completes the necessary procedures that are a prerequisite for securing funding for the two mutual funds for syria and africa, and in the context of the valletta conference to be held this week, where the next steps should be specified. financial resources are not the only assistance needed, but they are a prerequisite for a holistic approach to all aspects of stability in a spirit of solidarity and shared responsibility.
madam president, madam commissioner, the daphne programme was set up with the aim of helping to combat violence against women, children and young people. of course, i have deep sympathy for all victims of violence, and i believe that we can always do more and better to help them. in doing so, it is of course important to follow up the objectives of the previous daphne programmes in the context of the new programme. but it is important to monitor both the way projects are implemented and the overall work of the organisations behind these projects. in recent months, we have unfortunately faced serious allegations that some organisations whose projects are funded by the daphne programme are engaged in serious illegal and unethical activities which are contrary to the objectives for which daphne was set up. given the scandal surrounding planned parenthood in the us, it is important to know exactly which projects of the european planned parenthood network are funded by the european commission in order to make sure that these projects really contribute to the right cause. it is important that we are absolutely sure that under the guise of protecting women and preventing violence against women, there are no serious human rights violations and illegal actions.
commissioner, i would like to highlight two programmes, in which i was personally involved when i was mayor of istria, which have proved very effective when it comes to domestic violence against women. the first programme was a secure telephone where victims of violence could come forward and be immediately received for a conversation, and after that the organisation of a network of safe houses where women could come alone or with their children, if they had children, and receive in this case concrete help from the cities in istria and the istrian county, and that was long-term, months-long help. these are the concrete projects that matter, these are the concrete ngos that care about these victims of violence that we have to help directly. and lastly, i would also like to draw attention to the victims of the war in the former yugoslavia. there are many more women suffering, please help those organizations that care for them.
madam president, i would like to refer to the progress report on the enlargement process presented yesterday by commissioner hahn to the foreign affairs committee. i consider the european commission's new approach to evaluating the progress of each of the countries involved in the enlargement process to be a good step forward, because in this way this report is a kind of guide for reforms, and the four-year medium-term strategy gives a clear picture of the efforts of individual governments in the areas to be prioritised, in particular the judiciary, the fight against corruption, organised crime, public procurement and, most importantly, the fulfilment of the economic and financial criteria. i would particularly stress the need for strong support from the european union to bosnia and herzegovina. twenty years after the dayton peace agreement, we must extend a hand to the european union's new approach to this country and ensure the equality of all three constituent peoples in bosnia and herzegovina.
madam president, i welcome the commission's decision to call into question the contract for the construction of the thermal power plant plomin 3 in istria, and that contract is not in accordance with european legislation. i also welcome the fact that the commission has decided to help build an lng terminal on the island of krk, because it is of course an excellent energy project. however, it should be noted that the two projects are very close. 25 km difference is really nothing and it is unnecessary to have a coal-fired power plant plomin 3 on the other side of it lng terminal on liquefied gas. i call on the commission to combine these two projects, to create a true energy hub for european needs in the northern adriatic, and thus to exploit the synergies of these two projects.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the draft legislative resolution of the european parliament on the proposal for a decision of the parliament and of the council establishing a programme on interoperable solutions for european public administrations, businesses and citizens (isa2). the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's policy on the digital single market and will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's policy on the digital single market. this also contributes to the quality of life of european citizens and underpins the european strategy for growth and jobs, but must take into account the respect for privacy and the guarantee of security. the digitisation of european public administration is of particular importance in order to reduce costs and save time and to strengthen internal and external competitiveness for the benefit of the progress of the european economy.
‒ the commission has been advocating interoperable solutions since 1995 with the aim of facilitating the exchange of data between eu institutions and public administrations and the cooperation of different organisations on mutually beneficial and agreed common objectives. this objective is pursued today through the isa programme, which is currently in force and marks the beginning of a phase in which technological progress affects the work of public administrations and civil society. the commission's proposal for isa2 is a significant step towards modernising the public sector to bring it closer to the needs of civil society in the most efficient and effective way. it would allow for the linking of public administrations with other sectors, the protection of data and privacy of administrations, businesses and citizens, the simplification of procedures, the establishment of solutions that administrations will be able to use directly and the measurement of the success of the programme. the commission will also assess the compatibility of the aid with the internal market in accordance with article 107 (3) (b) of the treaty. i supported the report by mr carlos zarrinha, member of the european parliament, because interoperability solutions are a prerequisite for a better public service and for creating an environment in which businesses are more competitive and citizens are relieved of administrative burdens. member states should continue to modernise their administrations, improve business processes and ict infrastructure.
written. ‒ i support the draft legislative resolution of the european parliament on the proposal for a decision of the european parliament and of the council establishing a programme of interoperable solutions for european public administrations, businesses and citizens. it is necessary to remove electronic barriers between all member states in order to take full advantage of the opportunities offered by new technologies. electronic public administration not only greatly reduces the time and cost of individual procedures, but also adapts to the increasing demands of end-users. the increasing mobility of citizens within the eu requires the rapid flow and exchange of information. a fast and efficient public administration is an important service for smes and entrepreneurs. reducing administrative barriers and providing fast services to entrepreneurs will make it easier to create new jobs. unfortunately, in some eu member states, including croatia, public administrations are still unable to respond adequately to the demands of their users, resulting in a loss of trust in public administrations and a lack of new investment and jobs. in the light of the above, and in particular taking into account the free movement of persons and goods and the need of entrepreneurs to obtain the documents and evidence necessary to carry out their business in different member states, it is clear that the interoperability of modern electronic public administration cannot be achieved at member state level but requires a single legislative framework.
written. ‒ the aim of the programme is to modernise the public sector and to facilitate the needs of citizens. the proposed programme focuses on citizens' needs, privacy, security and a high level of data protection, simplification of administration and accessibility of data by traditional but also electronic means. the activities serving the objectives are the establishment of common semantics to link the public sector with other sectors, the promotion of open standards, in particular those relating to the security of data transmission, processing and storage, and the development of privacy and security mechanisms. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's policy on the environment and climate change, and will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's policy on climate change and its impact on the environment. the proposal also covers social, economic and other aspects of interoperability in order to link european public administrations to citizens in a high-quality way. the project will also support the development of a more efficient and simpler e-government at national and regional level. it shall in particular aim at ensuring a common understanding and appreciation of interoperability. in view of the above, i agree with the proposal in the report by my colleague carlos zorrinha to establish a programme of interoperable solutions for european public administrations, businesses and citizens.
written. ‒ interoperability is undoubtedly a key factor in the success of customs, taxation and excise duties and the functioning of the trans-european ict systems covering all member states. the commission has also undertaken to develop strategies for it systems that are jointly managed and operate together in all customs-related areas. the data protection interoperability and better cross-border cooperation should reveal significant potential for achieving better efficiency of public services in the member states. the introduction of electronic public procurement would make procurement procedures themselves more efficient and transparent, which would mean significant budgetary savings and a level playing field for all, in particular for new and existing smes. for these reasons, i supported the proposal for a decision establishing an interoperability solutions programme for european public administrations, businesses and citizens. it not only enables a sustainable interconnection between public administrations and those administrations and other sectors, thus strengthening the union's economy's ability to compete globally, but also creates an environment in which companies become more competitive, making such a solution a strong ally of the european strategy for growth and jobs.
written. ‒ i supported this report because the public sector plays an important role in the economy as a regulator and service provider. an efficient and productive public sector can be a powerful driver of economic growth by providing support and steering in the private sector. the commission should also be able to provide the necessary financial support to the member states in order to ensure that the financial instruments are used effectively and efficiently. in addition, i believe that in order to enable more effective interaction with citizens and businesses, member states need to modernise their administrations and ensure interoperable digital services at national and european level. i believe that this programme will facilitate cooperation between member states and the commission and the mapping and analysis of the overall interoperability environment in europe. the commission will continue to support the development of a european approach to the management of the data, including the development of a european data management system, which will be able to support the development of a european data management system, and to support the development of a european data management system.
written. ‒ the public sector plays an important role in the economy as a regulator, service provider and employer. at a time when governments are faced with the challenge of ensuring financial consolidation while fostering growth, competitiveness and employment, there is a strong justification for improved efficiency, better governance, faster action and greater participation of beneficiaries in the public sector. interoperability between administrations is a key factor enabling the efficient provision of digital services, while the replacement and re-use of existing interoperable solutions could reduce cost overruns. the new programme should focus on end-users; security, respect for privacy and a high level of data protection; standard data protection and data protection in design; administrative simplification and modernisation; the ability to access services through traditional and electronic means. i support the proposal for a decision of the european parliament and of the council establishing an interoperable solutions programme for european public administrations, businesses and citizens (isa2) because i believe that an efficient and productive public sector can be a powerful driver of economic growth.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the report because it also sets up a programme of interoperable solutions for european public administrations, businesses and citizens, as i believe that this achieves better efficiency of member states' public services through the overcoming of electronic cross-border barriers and cross-sectoral cooperation between the european public, businesses and citizens. i consider the request to introduce electronic public procurement to be particularly useful in order to increase the efficiency and transparency of public procurement procedures, which would ultimately lead to significant budget savings and a level playing field for all, including new and existing smes. in particular, i support the proposal for a one-stop shop for best practices to enable users to obtain the information they need more easily and efficiently. i believe that regular measurement of success against the impacts and satisfaction of businesses and the needs of citizens will be highly useful to ensure the effectiveness of this programme and that, if the results do not meet the set criteria, the interoperability programme can be changed or improved.
written. ‒ i voted for the report on the reform of the eu's electoral law because i believe that european democracy needs to be revived, citizens, especially young people, need to be activated and the public need to be encouraged to think about current european issues. i believe that electoral reform is necessary, because we are witnessing a declining response to the european elections. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the reforms and will continue to monitor the implementation of the reforms and will continue to monitor the implementation of the reforms. the transparency of the european elections would be enhanced by the high-quality prominence of the names and logos of european and regional political parties on the ballot papers and in all media materials during the campaign. the reforms also concern the timely drawing up of electoral rolls and the presentation of the programme, the introduction of equal time for the completion of elections and the limitation of campaign costs in order to contribute to a more open and transparent process that strengthens democratic legitimacy.
written. ‒ although the 1957 treaty of rome provided for the possibility of developing a uniform electoral procedure, elections to the european parliament are still determined by national law. i supported the report by ms hübner and ms leinen on the reform of eu electoral law, an initiative launched by the european parliament. reform is needed to ensure that the electoral system is based on the same rules for all member states, which would help to better promote the rights of european citizens to participate equally in democratic life. it is important to make the work of the european parliament more legitimate and effective, to bring the work of the representatives they themselves elect to represent their interests directly closer to the citizens. the proposed reforms should, inter alia, result in strengthening the demographic and transnational dimension of elections, electoral equality, ensuring gender equality, introducing voting rights for europeans living outside the eu and increasing the efficiency of the overall system for conducting european elections.
written. ‒ the amendment to the european union electoral law proposes measures that could contribute to strengthening the role and efficiency of the european parliament's institution itself, to strengthening democracy, to increasing legal certainty for citizens and to strengthening the european union itself. for all the reasons i have mentioned, i support the reforms. i think it's very important to make the information available and to bring it closer to the citizens for whom they vote and at the same time to ensure their right to choose the party that is in their best interest. the reform has not had a major impact on croatia, but the changes mentioned can make the electoral system more efficient and accessible to citizens, and i supported this proposal because i believe that it certainly contributes to achieving what is in the best interest of citizens. i am in favour of avoiding double voting, in the sense of setting up special monitoring bodies, to ensure that fair and transparent elections are held.
written. ‒ the 1976 act on the election of meps provided for direct general elections in the eu for the first time. the rules it prescribes are now obsolete in many places. the electoral campaign is conducted in national political arenas, making it difficult for european citizens to make an informed decision about the real consequences of their voting. the nomination of the leading candidates by the european political parties for the post of president of the commission in the last european elections was a step forward. the reform of the legislation aims to achieve a greater degree of harmonisation in the electoral rules in order to ensure the principle of equality. all european citizens should be able to exercise their right to vote and stand as a candidate under comparable conditions. article 14 of the eu treaty, which establishes the principle of degressive proportionality in determining the number of representatives per member state, has contributed significantly to preserving a common sense of belonging to the european project among all member states and should therefore be consistently respected. the inclusion of the names and logos of european political parties on the ballot paper, alongside the names of the national parties and the candidate for president of the commission, will certainly increase the visibility of european political parties to voters across europe. i therefore support the report by mrs hübner and mr leinen, which is an important step towards the harmonisation of european electoral legislation.
written. ‒ in recent years, there has been a decline in the voter turnout in european elections, especially among young people, while the lack of interest of citizens in european issues is a threat to the future of europe. a comprehensive agreement on an electoral procedure that would be uniform for all member states has not yet been reached. for example, the deadlines for finalising the electoral rolls before the european elections vary considerably between member states, which may make it difficult or even impossible to exchange voter information between them (which is intended to prevent double voting). genuine harmonisation of the electoral procedure for the european parliament in all member states could help to promote better the right of all european citizens to participate on an equal footing in the democratic life of the union, while strengthening the political dimension of european integration. the objective of such electoral reform is to increase the democratic and transnational dimension of european elections and the democratic legitimacy of the union's decision-making process, to strengthen the notion of citizenship of the union, to improve the functioning of the european parliament and the governance of the union, to increase the legitimacy of the work of the european parliament, to strengthen the principle of equal suffrage and equal opportunities, to improve the efficiency of the system for conducting european elections and to bring the members of the european parliament closer to voters, especially the youngest. for these reasons, and because it is a proposal that would help to revive european democracy, i supported the reform of eu electoral law.
written. ‒ i supported this report because it aims to reform eu electoral law, ahead of the 2019 elections, to better reflect the true european character of the ep and bridge the gap between its constituents. i support the introduction of the right to vote in european elections for all citizens of the union living outside the eu. i also believe that it would be useful for member states to introduce electronic and internet voting as well as postal voting, provided that all the necessary measures are also adopted to ensure the reliability of the results, the secrecy of the vote and data protection. i believe that there is a need for comprehensive harmonisation of some elements such as the closure of polling stations and communication on the projections of election results, a common deadline for the nomination of candidates by the leading parties, a mandatory threshold for the allocation of some seats, and a common deadline for the establishment of electoral lists at national level.
‒ the european parliament's committee on constitutional rights adopted a report on the reform of the european union electoral law concerning electoral rights in the european union. the report proposes a reform of electoral rights that should be implemented by 2019 with the aim of introducing changes. the most important of these are the right to electoral equality and its promotion to the highest possible level, the promotion of basic representative rights, and the making of parliament's work as legitimate and effective as possible. the commission also proposes to amend the general electoral law relating to the direct election of members of the european parliament, the most important of which are: gender equality on electoral rolls, the introduction of online and postal voting and the setting of a deadline of 12 weeks before election day for the submission of the electoral roll. i support this report because i believe it brings new and positive changes to the voting rights of european union citizens. not only will the entire electoral process be more transparent, but it will be simplified and tailored to the voters.
written. ‒ i voted against the report which seeks to introduce a uniform electoral procedure in all member states, because i believe that through most of the measures proposed to achieve this objective, the rights of the member states are infringed and the principle of subsidiarity is violated. the commission is also proposing to increase the visibility of the names and logos of european political parties on ballot papers and on campaign materials for the european elections. although this is supposedly to provide additional information to the electorate, i believe that it could confuse them because it would probably require a larger ballot paper that would be even more opaque. i hold that the proposal to equalise the minimum voting age to 16 is also a violation of the principle of subsidiarity. in addition, the establishment of a common minimum deadline of 12 weeks before election day for the drawing up of the electoral rolls at national level, explaining that this would give candidates and voters across the union the same time to prepare and reflect before voting, does not take into account that this would mean an extension of the pre-election campaign during which voters could be saturated and which could result in increased abstention.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the european parliament resolution on aviation, because the aviation industry is one of the biggest drivers of employment and growth in the union, directly affecting the entire european economy. the commission notes that the commission has not provided any evidence that the measures in question are imputable to the state. in this context, it is necessary to remove the burdens that exist at european and national level in order to really strengthen the competitiveness of the sector and to stimulate further growth and progress through innovation and new technologies. however, the social provisions and the provision of the necessary protection and the security aspect are of vital importance. the commission notes that the commission has not provided any evidence that the airport operator has been operating in the absence of the aid. the commission notes that the airport operator has not provided any evidence that the airport operator has been operating in breach of the airport services agreement.
written. ‒ the data show that the aviation industry created 2.6 million jobs in 2012 and is expected to have a positive impact on gdp of eur 419 billion in the period up to 2020. the air transport system thus creates benefits, not only in the airline industry, but also beyond it. the commission has also identified a number of other areas where the union's external borders are not clearly defined. the commission notes that the air carrier has not provided any evidence that the air carrier has been operating in compliance with the relevant safety standards. the commission should also be able to provide the necessary information to the member states and the commission on the progress made in the implementation of the union's policy on aviation security. the creation of a single aviation market requires ensuring full implementation of eu legislation in the member states and establishing global standards through international relations. i supported the european parliament resolution on the future aviation package, because of its importance for europe's economic growth and competitiveness, for faster and safer connectivity and mobility of people, goods and services, and for the fact that a single european sky is a necessary prerequisite for the sustainable competitiveness of the european aviation sector.
written. ‒ i supported the motion for a resolution by the epp, alde and s&d clubs on aviation. the new package of measures must give the eu's aviation industry, air carriers and ports a more favourable and competitive position on the global market. the commission notes that the commission has not provided any evidence that the airlines have been operating in the absence of state aid. the commission notes that the airport services agreement concluded between ryanair and ams was signed on the same day as the airport services agreement signed with ryanair on the same day. the commission notes that the commission has not provided any evidence that the air carrier has been operating in the union for more than five years. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's policy on aviation security and will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's policy on civil aviation security and will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's policy on civil aviation security and will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's policy on civil aviation security and will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's policy on civil aviation security and will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's policy on civil aviation security and will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's policy on civil aviation security and will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's policy on civil aviation security and will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's policy on civil aviation security and will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's policy on civil aviation security and will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's policy on civil aviation security. the commission will also assess the impact of the new rules on the air transport market, in particular the impact of the new rules on the air transport market and the impact of the new rules on the air transport market. this package of measures must also contribute to the reduction of carbon dioxide emissions.
written. ‒ air transport in the eu is economically highly developed, supporting 2.6 million jobs and contributing over 2.4% of gross national income. the commission notes that the union has not provided any evidence that the union industry has been able to maintain its competitive position in the union market. the commission should also be able to assess the impact of the new rules on the functioning of the internal market, in particular the impact of the new rules on the functioning of the internal market and the impact of the new rules on the functioning of the internal market. in this regard, the opening of negotiations with icao is encouraged with a view to creating international competition rules that are fair and equal for all. it is important to prevent unfair competition and to eliminate bad practice. the commission notes that the measures provided for in this decision are in line with the principles of the common fisheries policy, as set out in the annex to commission decision c (2013) 9413 of 11 december 2013 on the conclusion of the agreement between the european community and the government of the republic of iceland on trade in fishery products and repealing decision c (2013) 9413 of the european parliament and of the council of 11 december 2013 establishing a framework for cooperation between the european community and the government of the republic of iceland on trade in fishery products (oj l 347, 20.12.2013, p. i believe that an open and measured approach is necessary to address the sensitive issue of aviation safety. the commission notes that the airport services agreement with ryanair was signed on 20 june 2012 and that the agreement with ryanair was signed on 20 june 2012. in view of the above, i agree with the resolution which clearly emphasises the need for a proactive policy for the development of the aviation industry.
written. ‒ the aviation industry is one of the main drivers of growth and employment in the eu and is closely linked to the competitiveness of the air transport sector with annual revenues of around eur 100 billion and some 500 000 direct employees. the commission notes that the airport services agreement concluded between ryanair and ams was signed on 20 june 2013 and entered into force on 1 january 2014. the commission should also be able to provide the necessary support to the member states in the implementation of the union's policy on the environment, in particular by providing them with the necessary financial resources to implement the union's policy on the environment. the commission notes that the airport operator has not provided any evidence that the airport operator has been operating in breach of the airport services agreement. the commission notes that the commission has not provided any evidence that the measures in question are imputable to the state. in view of my support for the implementation of proactive policies to develop a favourable environment for this industry, i supported the motion for a resolution on the future aviation package.
written. ‒ i supported this motion for a resolution because i believe that the aviation package would provide the much-needed incentive for a more sustainable and competitive european aviation industry, to also support european air carriers, airports and the aviation industry and create a level playing field in the global market. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the new rules and will continue to monitor the implementation of the new rules. the commission notes that the airport services agreement between ryanair and ams was signed on 20 june 2013 and that the agreement was signed on 27 june 2013. at the same time, i would like to stress that the eu's commitments and environmental objectives must be respected.
written. ‒ the aviation sector is the only sector in which emissions of pollutants have increased since 1998, by about 30%. the aviation sector is also responsible for 3% of the world's total international co2 emissions. the international air transport association has committed to a 50% reduction in net co2 emissions from aviation by 2050 compared to 2005 levels. the commission has also proposed that the commission should provide a report on the implementation of the new rules on the protection of the environment and the environment-related aspects of the aviation sector. the commission notes that the air carrier has not been able to demonstrate that it is able to meet the requirements of the aviation safety standards. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's policy on aviation security and will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's policy on aviation security and will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's policy on aviation security and will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's policy on aviation security and will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's policy on aviation security and will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's policy on aviation security and will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's policy on aviation security and will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's policy on aviation security and will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's policy on aviation security. the commission notes that the airport infrastructure is not yet fully operational and that the airport infrastructure is not yet fully operational.
written. ‒ i supported the motion for a resolution by the european conservatives and reformists on the future aviation package because i agree with the need to support the aviation industry and develop innovation, so that the european union's aviation sector can face the challenges it is facing, which is precisely the aim of the measures proposed in this resolution. in addition, i agree with the emphasis on improving the capacity and connectivity of all european union airports, including small and regional airports, which can help less developed regions to remain competitive and large airports to avoid congestion. i believe that the implementation of the single european sky should make a major contribution to addressing the various challenges, and i also support the call for the conclusion of air transport agreements with the bric and asean countries, as well as japan, the gulf countries and turkey, which have the potential to generate additional profits for the aviation industry and the european union economy in general. the commission considers that the measures in question are not imputable to the state and that the commission has not taken any action to recover the aid. that is why i abstained.
mr president, i would first like to congratulate my colleagues pablo zalbi bidegain and bernd lange on a very good motion for a resolution. trade liberalisation is an important tool for achieving sustainable economic growth, and international trade could become the most important external source of development finance for ldcs. the importance of trade for sustainable development is also recognised in the recently adopted 2030 agenda for sustainable development, which highlights trade as an important means to achieve new sustainable development goals and inclusive and sustainable development. it is symbolic that the 10th wto ministerial conference is being held in africa for the first time, whose development is of crucial importance to us in the european union. the eu has always advocated and emphasised its commitment to multilateralism, while recognising complementary approaches and temporary solutions such as bilateral, regional and plurilateral agreements that can significantly boost trade opening. but to achieve at least some positive outcome of this wto ministerial conference, it is also necessary to recognize the differences between the least developed countries and those fast-growing middle-income economies. the union's macro-financial assistance shall be implemented in accordance with the union's macro-financial assistance programmes. we also need to pay attention to the conclusions of the 5th trade assistance review conference, which focused mainly on the trade facilitation agreement, which tries to help developing countries improve their trade capacity. for example, improved customs procedures alone could increase world gdp by eur 68 billion a year, with developing countries benefiting the most. i therefore welcome the fact that the resolution calls on all wto members to proceed urgently with the ratification and implementation of this agreement so that it can enter into force before the 10th wto ministerial conference. ((the speaker agreed to answer the question by raising the blue card under rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure.)
answer the question posed by raising the blue card. mr president, i agree with you and with what you have asked, which is something that is perhaps indirectly but also in this motion for a resolution. when i said that the emphasis should be on this trade facilitation agreement where we help developing countries to increase their trade capacity, and thereby better fight poverty and ensure that people can and have the right to stay in their country and have a perspective there instead of having to migrate.
mr president, madam commissioner, world trade must become the instrument and the engine of development. it has to become a mechanism by which we who are richer will help the weaker, because isn't it better to do something to facilitate world trade than to bring humanitarian aid, isn't it easier for the mechanisms of multilateral trade to do something for a developing country, to enable their economies and agriculture to move forward and in that way give them a hook to catch fish, rather than bring them fish, because we don't have enough money to be able to give someone fish forever so they can eat. we have to help them feed themselves, but in a way that affects world trade and helps themselves and all of us together, because how are we going to feed the 10 billion people that will be on the planet in just a few years?
madam president, i am surprised by the arguments of some of our colleagues in this room today when they say that this agreement should not be signed because human rights are not being respected in vietnam. we know that human rights are not respected in vietnam, but the same colleagues often use the argument that we should not export our form of democracy, western democracy, respect for human rights to other countries and we should not impose anything on others. i see this agreement, madam commissioner, first and foremost as the eu's desire to combat poverty in vietnam, which is one of the poorest countries on earth. that is why i support this agreement, aware that the issue of human rights will be a distant topic in vietnam today and probably tomorrow, but the fight against poverty is one of the eu's commitments. in that context, you have my support.
madam president, this agreement we are expecting with ecuador and its accession to our overall agreement with peru and colombia shows the importance the eu attaches to the andean countries. so it is well said today that we should see, enable and expand cooperation with other andean countries and have such agreements because it is certainly an indication of our interest in these countries. on the other hand, this decision is a confirmation of the importance and role that the eu has in the world's global market. so i am sure that with this contract we can help the peasants in ecuador, those who are involved in agriculture, but at the same time we must take into account the fact that we could harm some of our farmers, especially those who produce bananas in the canary islands and therefore we must be careful and have the right to protect our production.
madam president, when we talk about animal welfare policy we have to start from the fact that these animals have their feelings, feel pain or happiness, almost everything that we do. and that's where we have to start when we talk about animal welfare, and then we can only understand all of the things that we do to these animals when we breed them, unfortunately clone them, transport them in ways that we're not supposed to do, and all of the things that ultimately happen in animal breeding, in animal transportation and unfortunately, oftentimes, in cloning. what i want to emphasize, of course, is the fact that we need a new strategy that should also take into account our relationship with wild animals, such as the use of wild animals in circuses or, unfortunately, trafficking in ways that are not appropriate. the fact that domestic animals, in particular dogs and cats, are often not treated appropriately should also be taken into account and their welfare should be taken into account when we talk about animal shelters. this year the strategy that the commission proposed at the time expires and we now need a new strategy by 2020 that we are eagerly awaiting on our table.
madam president, the welfare of all our citizens is, i believe, high on the list of priorities for all of us in this house. but while i consider the rapporteur's intentions to be good and noble, i believe that the measures proposed are completely wrong. for continuing to insist on the measures that caused the problems cannot be the solution but only the source of new problems. free health care and free education for all sounds very nice, but it should be kept in mind that such a thing simply does not exist. these services have a price and someone has to pay it, and that someone is the taxpayers. the commission considers that the aid is compatible with the internal market if it is granted to the beneficiary in accordance with the conditions laid down in article 107 (3) (c) of the treaty. we can only reduce inequality if we give those most vulnerable the opportunity to rise through their knowledge and work, while ensuring that they are not discriminated against, but protected by the rule of law. putting entire social classes on welfare will only increase inequality and, more importantly, deepen misunderstanding and gaps among citizens.
madam president, the long-standing economic crisis is taking its toll on many areas. children are probably, in the long run, the biggest victims of this prolonged economic crisis that we're witnessing. so i want to make it clear that this report, which i basically support, although some things are not quite real, i believe because of the desire to put the welfare of the child first and the welfare of children in general, shows that there are differences between our countries - differences between east and west, differences between north and south. and what that report says is, unfortunately, completely true. but i also want to say that there are solutions. i see the synergy that the european union, the member states, can do, but let's never forget the local and regional authorities when we talk about kindergartens, nurseries, schools, health systems, to give for the well-being of children.
madam president, cohesion policy is a policy of partnership. partnership policy of the european union, the member states, but let us never forget, especially when we are talking about marginalised communities or groups, that without the role of local and regional authorities, cohesion policy cannot be implemented in the right way. that is why i want to speak about the importance of involving local and regional authorities when we are talking concretely and in this report about addressing the problems of the roma, as one of the marginalised communities within the european union. i have a lot of experience, personally as an istrian mayor who has spent 12 years trying to help the roma in istria and i certainly know that the role of cities and regions in providing concrete assistance to the roma is extremely important. so i ask you to do everything you can to make that synergy of all the authorities in the european union.
madam president, as a member of the committee on regional development, i support the parts of the report which stress that in implementing cohesion policy, special attention must be paid to the key challenges of poverty and exclusion of young people and children and people with disabilities. i also fully agree with the parts of the report that speak of a bottom-up approach, i.e. the desire that eu funds in the implementation phase should be used in an integrated way through new territorial development instruments in cohesion policy, integrated territorial investments and community-led local development, as they also emphasise the important role that civil society can play in this segment. however, i believe that the protection of rights and the allocation of resources should not depend on certain subjective and purely ideological factors such as belonging to arbitrarily selected groups but exclusively on objective and above all measurable criteria which must be the same for all.
mr. president, first of all, i want to protest. it is inappropriate to discuss this report and the role of the european union in the united nations as a short report. today we discussed our relations with the world trade organization, ecuador's accession to our agreement with colombia and peru, we discussed our relations with vietnam, and our relations with the united nations we discuss in the context of a briefing. that's not appropriate. that is unacceptable. the role of the european union within the united nations must be above all an attempt to always have one voice, to act as one voice, to make europe credible, to make europe strong in the united nations and to impose its issues because of course it is not only security that is the issue of the united nations and it cannot be only security but it must also be development and the social component and environmental protection. climate change, suffice it to say, is what it means when we talk about environmental protection.
mr president, the common foreign and security policy has been in existence for 25 years, and the common security and defence policy for a full 15 years. in the meantime, both policies have developed their own mechanisms, activities, modes of action and bodies, but there has been no significant shift in the unity and strength of the two policies. the crises facing the european union, the wars in the neighbourhood, refugees and terrorism could be much easier to solve, and some of them even prevented, with a stronger common foreign and security policy. after the experience of the last 15 and 25 years mentioned above, and especially the recent painful experience of a poor response to crises, it is clear that the common foreign and security policy needs to be strengthened, as there is no reason to hope that the challenges facing the european union will be smaller and easier in the future.
mr president, the issue of border protection in the european union has become dramatically linked over the past few weeks to the issue of protecting citizens. until now, the refugee phenomenon has been treated mainly as a humanitarian and organisational issue, and after the massacre in paris and the events in brussels, it is now primarily a security issue. the eu is in a special kind of war. and that's part of the civil war. europe is not being invaded by foreign armies, but is being brutally attacked by some of its citizens who were born and raised here. the roots of this phenomenon are to be found in a kind of social pathology that arises from feelings of exclusion from systems that are supposed to provide social promotion and acceptance. of course, not everyone who is unemployed automatically becomes a terrorist. this is about the intersection of different social, foreign policy, religious and media factors. but there is no doubt that the terrorist threat will strain not only national but also european and even global institutions, defining the character of the european union in the first decades of the 21st century.
mr president, mr commissioner, i would like to take this opportunity, when we are talking about the energy union, to draw your attention to the fact that as rapporteur for this parliament on the adriatic-ionian strategy, i have emphasised two things, which were adopted in this parliament. this part of europe can contribute to the single energy market first with renewable energy sources, especially with the hydropower potential we have, especially in the balkans, but also with the possibility of using solar and wind as energy sources. the other big project is lng terminals, both in albania and in croatia, with maybe a little too much congestion in the northern adriatic, and it would be very important for the commission to decide clearly which lng terminal it wants to opt for. i believe that the croatian lng terminal in krk is very interesting for a whole range of countries that can be supplied with gas from that terminal and i hope that the european commission will continue to support this project.
mr president, mr vice-president, i have been following for a year how much energy and time you have invested in bringing the energy union to life, and i congratulate you on that, but i would still like to point out a few more facts that could actually improve how the energy union is brought to life. the macro-regional approach, my colleague mr jakovčić has just mentioned the adriatic-ionian strategy; we have three macro-regions in europe - the baltic, the danube and the adriatic-ionian - that are alive and that can actually be a very good basis for implementing as much energy efficiency as possible, as many new energy sources as possible, instead of gas, which we see has gone somewhat into a dead end, in the energy union. there are civilians left in the center. we talk about citizens, but we don't give them power. so, through better regulation, as vice-president timmermans says, to ensure that citizens through various energy cooperatives and other quality schemes can really actively contribute to the energy transition in the energy union. smart grids, smart cities, we have the technology, we have the funding, we have the knowledge, why wait?
written. ‒ i support these reports on the repeal of certain acts because they have their bases in the legal legislature. all acts to be repealed are no longer legally relevant, for the reason that they have been replaced by new acts, for the reason that they were of a temporary nature.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the draft legislative resolution of the european parliament on the proposal for a decision of the parliament and of the council repealing certain acts in the area of freedom, security and justice because the content of such acts is present in new acts or was of limited validity. in this context, i support the reduction and simplification of union legal texts, including the repeal procedure. therefore, i support, in this case, the repeal of the provisions and individual decisions concerning schengen. the union should be able to provide for the establishment of a european data protection supervisor, who should be appointed by the european parliament and the council.
written. ‒ in order to simplify the law and to abolish obsolete laws, the commission has carried out an assessment of the schengen acquis and legal instruments. it was concluded that many acts are no longer relevant because of their temporary nature or because their content has been covered by subsequent acts, even though they have not been repealed. the commission has proposed the repeal of 11 decisions of the schengen executive committee, and of council regulation (ec) no 189/2008. after consulting the legal service of the european parliament, it is also proposed to change the type of act from decision to regulation, as regulations are fully binding and directly applicable in all member states in accordance with article 288 tfeu. i supported the report by mr claude moraes, as i believe that the repeal of obsolete regulations is necessary to ensure legal certainty and transparency of union law, which is a key element for better law-making.
written. ‒ this regulation repeals 11 acts relating to the regulation of entry and exit controls of member states within the schengen area. since these issues are regulated by more recent acts, such as the exchange of statistical data analysed today by frontex, these decisions are obsolete. one such regulation is the regulation on the testing of the schengen information system, which has been in use for some time. i supported this report because i believe that it is necessary to remove from the schengen acquis all those acts which no longer have a purpose in order to simplify and make the legislation more transparent. the commission should also be able to use the information contained in the annual report to assess the impact of the proposed measures on the union's financial interests. although the republic of croatia is not yet a member of the schengen area, croatia's goal is to enter schengen. it is therefore in the interests of me as a member of parliament, but also of all citizens of croatia, that the rules of the acquis relating to the schengen area be accessible and understandable to all.
written. ‒ i support the commission's proposal to repeal a total of 11 decisions of the schengen executive committee and one council regulation. the decisions concerned mainly changes in visa policy and migration control issues. it is interesting to note that in several cases the new frontex regulations have completely taken over the function that member states had in the old decisions, for example the exchange of migration statistics and the surveillance of migration at the external borders. europol has also been entrusted with tasks relating to the exchange of information on the fight against illegal migration and a new legal framework for cooperation between member states on external border controls has been introduced, including the secondment of immigration liaison officers to third countries. in recent months, we have witnessed a sudden and serious threat to the schengen free zone, and instead of maintaining the common security framework, individual member states have acted on their own and temporarily suspended the schengen regime in line with the growing public fear of uncontrolled migration. it was expected that the tragic events in paris would create the need to re-evaluate the existing provisions on schengen and the likely circumvention of the rules by some schengen member states.
written. ‒ for the sake of the credibility and transparency of union law, i consider it necessary to remove from the legislation in force acts which no longer serve a purpose. in addition to new acts whose entry into force makes it necessary to repeal old ones, they have also established new organisations which are functioning and have taken over tasks which would fall within the competence of the member states and other organisations and bodies. the repeal of a number of obsolete union acts from the schengen acquis at union level provides legal certainty and clarity that cannot be sufficiently achieved at member state level. in the light of the above, i consider it justified to repeal all 11 proposed decisions and council regulation (ec) no 189/2008.
written. ‒ i support this proposal because improving the transparency of union law is a key element of the better law-making strategy implemented by the union institutions. i also believe that the legislation should remove the acts in the area of freedom, security and justice which are in force and do not serve a purpose. decision of the executive board sch/com-ex (98) 18 rev. establishing that the procedure to be followed by schengen states experiencing serious difficulties in obtaining passports for the return of illegal migrants and the possibility to examine at union level the need for other, more binding measures against third countries is obsolete as the union has concluded readmission agreements with a large number of third countries setting out the obligations and procedures to be followed by the authorities of third countries and member states in relation to the return of illegally staying foreign nationals.
written. ‒ the aim of this legislative proposal is to repeal outdated legislative measures in the area of freedom, security and justice. in june 2014, the european commission, in cooperation with the police and judicial authorities, started an assessment of the acquis and legal instruments related to the area of crime. the commission has now completed its assessment and has decided that many acts are no longer relevant because of their temporary nature or because their content has been covered by subsequent acts, even though they have not been repealed. the commission therefore proposes to the european parliament and the council to withdraw 12 acts adopted in the area of freedom, security and justice. i support this proposal because i believe that by repealing obsolete rules, legal certainty and transparency of union law are ensured, which is a key element for better law-making.
written. ‒ i supported the regulation repealing certain acts of the schengen acquis, which i consider necessary in order to repeal obsolete acts which have passed the transitional period provided for by the treaty on the functioning of the european union or have been replaced by new acts. i consider that the repeal of those acts is particularly useful in order to avoid overlapping legal provisions in european union legislation. in order to simplify legislation, this regulation repeals the decisions on: visa policy, exchange of statistical data, issuing of schengen visas, evidence under readmission agreements, working group, difficulties in obtaining passports, stamping, combating illegal immigration, document advisers and liaison officers, as well as the council regulation on sis ii tests. i consider that the european commission's proposals meet the objectives of the refit programme, which aims to ensure the coherence and effectiveness of the rules, and i therefore supported this regulation.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the draft legislative resolution of the european parliament on the proposal for a decision of the parliament and of the council repealing certain acts in the field of police and judicial cooperation in criminal matters, in view of the need to ensure that european union law is as clear and effective as possible for the benefit of all citizens, but also of the competent authorities concerned. i believe that obsolete acts must be repealed as soon as possible in order to ensure the certainty and consistency of the legal acquis, especially when it comes to criminal matters. simplifying the law also contributes to the transparency that the european institutions need, and i therefore support this report.
written. ‒ the commission has carried out an assessment of the schengen acquis and legal instruments in the field of police and judicial cooperation in criminal matters for the purpose of evaluating and simplifying the law and has found that a number of acts are obsolete. the commission has proposed the repeal of the executive board decision on combating drug trafficking and the police manual, the executive board declaration on the abduction of minors and council decision 2008/173. the rapporteur proposes to repeal also the agreement on cooperation in road traffic offences proceedings, as it never entered into force, and to change the type of act from decision to regulation. i supported the report by representative claude moraes because i believe that the abolition of obsolete regulations is necessary to ensure the simplicity of the system.
written. ‒ this regulation repeals the acts regulating police and judicial cooperation in criminal matters between the member states of the schengen area. situations in which a parent illegally takes a child across the border or where a member state refuses to cooperate in the fight against drug trafficking are clearly covered by subsequent acts, so that obsolete acts belonging to the schengen acquis no longer have any meaning and need to be repealed. i also agree to the repeal of the council decision on the tests of schengen information system 2, which is already in the use phase. i supported this report because i believe it is necessary to repeal all those acts which no longer serve a purpose. the legal certainty in the application of the acquis, which is also achieved by the repeal of obsolete acts, is a key element of the better law-making strategy implemented by the union institutions in order to simplify and make transparent european union documents.
written. ‒ i support the commission's proposal to repeal seven council joint actions relating to the fight against organised crime, drug addiction and drug trafficking and to cooperation in the field of public policy and security. the most important powers are conferred on europol, which has been given responsibility for strengthening mutual cooperation between law enforcement authorities of the member states in preventing and combating terrorism, and for advising the competent authorities of the member states on investigative procedures. the european evidence warrant as an instrument of cooperation in criminal matters has also been withdrawn as the european investigation warrant is applied among 26 member states. in these areas, the establishment of common rules and a security framework is of paramount importance, as drug trafficking and organised crime remain major threats to european security.
‒ the european union, as a supranational union to which the member states have entrusted the exercise of certain sovereign rights, has the right and the duty to fulfil all the obligations arising therefrom in order to achieve its objectives. the legislative role is one of the most important in this respect, as eu law has a direct impact on the national law of the member states to a large extent. in his report on the proposal for a decision of the european parliament and of the council repealing certain acts in the field of police and judicial cooperation in criminal matters, colleague claudea moraes rightly stresses that a key element of the better law-making strategy is to improve the transparency of union law and that in this regard it is necessary to remove those acts that are in force but no longer serve their purpose, that is to say, are no longer relevant because of their legal nature or because their content has been covered by subsequent acts. those decisions and declarations which are obsolete in that respect should be repealed for reasons of legal certainty and clarity.
written. ‒ i support this proposal because many acts adopted in the area of police and judicial cooperation in criminal matters are no longer relevant due to their temporary nature. furthermore, the schengen manual on cross-border police cooperation was adopted by decision of the executive board sch/com-ex (98) 52 to assist member states in carrying out cross-border activities. i consider that this decision is obsolete after the content of the handbook has been included in the recently updated catalogue of recommendations for the correct application of the schengen acquis and best practices. therefore, i support the proposal to repeal these obsolete decisions and declarations for reasons of legal certainty and clarity. this proposal should repeal many obsolete union acts in the area of police and judicial cooperation in criminal matters and cannot be achieved at member state level but only at union level.
written. ‒ many acts adopted in the area of police and judicial cooperation in criminal matters, which belong to the schengen acquis, are no longer relevant because of their temporary nature or because their content has been covered by subsequent acts. the commission has proposed the repeal of the executive board decision on combating drug trafficking and the police manual, the executive board declaration on the abduction of minors and council decision 2008/173. the rapporteur proposes to repeal also the agreement on cooperation in road traffic offences proceedings, as it never entered into force, and to change the type of act from a decision to a regulation, as regulations are fully binding and directly applicable in all states in accordance with article 288 tfeu. i support the proposal to repeal the acts in the area of police and judicial cooperation in criminal matters, which belong to the schengen acquis, as it represents a good strategy for better law-making by the union institutions.
written. ‒ i supported the removal of acts from eu legislation that no longer serve a purpose in order to improve the transparency of union law. the commission is proposing to repeal or replace obsolete acts as part of the refit programme, which aims to make the eu's regulatory framework clearer, more stable and more predictable. in order to achieve the purpose of that programme, this regulation will repeal the decisions on combating drug trafficking, the police handbook and traffic offences, as well as the statement on the abduction of a minor and the council decision on sis ii tests. as the content of these acts has subsequently been incorporated into other legal provisions of the european union, i consider that the abolition of the said aid will reduce the regulatory burden and increase the effectiveness of the law.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the draft legislative resolution of the european parliament on the proposal for a regulation of the parliament and of the council repealing certain acts in the field of police and judicial cooperation in criminal matters in order to ensure clarity and legal certainty. in this context, i support the procedure for repealing acts which are obsolete, i.e. whose content is present in new acts or whose validity is limited. i believe that the transparency of european union law benefits all citizens, but also the competent authorities concerned, by promoting the certainty and credibility of the acquis and by raising the level of consistency of the union.
written. ‒ by the interinstitutional agreement of 16 december 2003, the european parliament, the council and the commission agreed to reduce and simplify the legislation, while abolishing obsolete ones. the commission has therefore carried out a review of the schengen acquis and legal instruments in the field of police and judicial cooperation in criminal matters and has found that a number of acts are outdated. the commission has proposed to repeal:• 7 joint action councils• council act 1999/c 26/07 and the convention on driving disqualifications• council framework decision 2008/978/jha on the european evidence order i supported the report by mr claude moraes because i believe that the need to abolish outdated regulations in the area of police and judicial cooperation is necessary in order to make the rules as clear and transparent as possible, as this also increases citizens' trust in the judicial system.
written. ‒ i supported the report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council repealing certain acts in the field of police and judicial cooperation in criminal matters because i believe that all those acts which are outdated and no longer fulfil their legal purpose should be repealed. this regulation repeals seven joint actions of the council in the field of police and judicial cooperation in criminal matters, relating inter alia to the fight against drug addiction and drug trafficking, the list of capabilities in relation to the fight against organised crime, cooperation in the field of public policy and security and cooperation between customs authorities, and the council joint action on good practice in mutual legal assistance in criminal matters. the council act on driving disqualifications and the framework decision on the european evidence order are also repealed. all those acts need to be repealed because the specific matter mentioned is now regulated by acts of a more recent date.
written. ‒ simplification and reduction of the scope of union legislation is important for legal certainty and clarity, and the commission is working on this by regularly reviewing the schengen acquis and by repealing acts that are no longer relevant, either because of their temporary nature or because of subsequently adopted acts that have covered their content. this commission proposal concerns the repeal of three decisions and declarations of the schengen executive committee. for example, the decision adopting the handbook on cross-border police cooperation was repealed because its content was included in the updated catalogue of recommendations for the correct application of the schengen acquis. the decision adopting the agreement on cooperation in the field of road traffic offences is also repealed as it is not an internal act of the schengen acquis and has never entered into force. this procedure will facilitate the coordination of police and judicial forces within the eu, while avoiding unnecessary complications and double rules, which is why i supported it.
‒ the european union, as a supranational union to which the member states have entrusted the exercise of certain sovereign rights, has the right and the duty to fulfil all the obligations arising therefrom in order to achieve its objectives. the legislative role is one of the most important in this respect, as eu law has a direct impact on the national law of the member states to a large extent. in his report on the proposal for a decision of the european parliament and of the council repealing certain acts in the field of police and judicial cooperation in criminal matters, colleague claude moraes rightly stresses that a key element of the better law-making strategy is to improve the transparency of union law and, in this respect, those acts which are in force but no longer serve their purpose, or are no longer relevant because of their legal nature or because their content has been covered by subsequent acts, should be removed. those decisions and declarations which are obsolete should be repealed for reasons of legal certainty and clarity.
written. ‒ i support this proposal as council joint action 96/610/jha created a list of specific counter-terrorist capabilities, skills and expertise to make them more easily and quickly available to agencies in all member states. i also support the proposal to repeal a number of obsolete union acts in the area of police and judicial cooperation in criminal matters. such cooperation can be better achieved at union level. the eu may adopt measures in accordance with the principle of subsidiarity as set out in article 5 of the treaty on european union. in order to ensure uniform conditions for the implementation of this regulation, implementing powers should be conferred on the commission.
written. ‒ improving the transparency of union law, which is the focus of the work of the union institutions, is a key element of the better law-making strategy. in that context, it is appropriate to remove from the legislation in force those acts which no longer serve the purpose. the commission has also been asked to provide information on the implementation of the new law on police cooperation in criminal matters. the members proposed the repeal of the following acts:• 7 joint actions as their content was taken from successive acts• council act 98/c 216/01 and the convention of 17 june 1998 (driving disqualifications)• framework decision 2008/978/jha (european evidence order) i support the motion to repeal those acts. those acts should be removed from the acquis of the european union, thereby improving transparency and security for all citizens and states.
written. ‒ i supported the regulation on the repeal of certain acts in the field of police and judicial cooperation in criminal matters because i believe that acts which no longer serve their purpose or are contained in new acts need to be removed from european union legislation in order to improve the transparency of the law and to facilitate their accessibility to the relevant agencies. in particular, this regulation repeals the joint actions on the counter-terrorist capability inventory, the chemical characterisation of drugs, the capability inventory relating to the fight against organised crime, the fight against drug addiction and drug trafficking, cooperation in the field of public policy and security, cooperation between customs authorities, good practice in mutual legal assistance in criminal matters, as well as the council act and the convention on driving disqualifications and the framework decision on the european evidence order. i believe that this will greatly contribute to the objective of reducing burdens, i.e. i believe that it will make it much easier for the institutions of the european union, but also for citizens, to understand european union law and, accordingly, to act in accordance with those rights.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the draft legislative resolution of the european parliament on the draft council decision on the conclusion, on behalf of the european union, of the agreement in the form of an exchange of letters between the european union and the commission for the conservation of southern bluefin tuna (ccsbt) concerning the union's membership of the extended commission of the convention for the conservation of southern bluefin tuna, as it strengthens the union's cooperation with the ccsbt, which started in 2006, and in particular because the southern bluefin tuna is an endangered species. i believe it is crucial to act with rational and sustainable management of marine resources in mind and to oppose unregulated and illegal fishing. the marine ecosystem is one of the key values of the entire planet that must be preserved at the highest level, and therefore i support all regional and other international organisations that work in this regard. however, to achieve such efforts, synergistic and joint cooperation of the international community is needed, as these are of course global issues.
‒ the international commission for the conservation of atlantic tunas (iccat) is responsible for the conservation of bluefin tuna in the atlantic ocean and its neighbouring seas. the commission has set out the conditions, fishing seasons and annual quotas for the member states on the basis of the fleets they have and the data in their archives. the commission was established to monitor the implementation of the agreement on the conservation of southern bluefin tuna, which entered into force on 1 january 2014. i supported the report by mr carlos iturguiz because i believe that membership of the enlarged commission is necessary to contribute to the rational and sustainable management of marine resources and to the fight against illegal fishing, all with the aim of maintaining the natural balance of the sea.
written. ‒ i welcome the inclusion of the european union in the enlarged commission of the convention for the conservation of southern bluefin tuna. the southern bluefin tuna has long been listed as endangered on the iucn red list. overfishing is threatening the economically important species' stock, and it is also causing economic tensions between the major economies of asia and the pacific, such as austria, new zealand and japan, and other countries around the world. europe, through its overseas and non-european territories, also participates in the southern bluefin tuna fishery, which also represents an important source of economic income for european fisheries. europe has good experience in managing the atlantic bluefin tuna stocks through a similar management body. i believe that it is in the eu's main interest, within the commission for the conservation of southern bluefin tuna, to continue to promote a consistent union approach to the conservation of tuna in all oceans, thus reaffirming the commitment to the long-term conservation and sustainable exploitation of the world's fisheries resources. that's why i voted for this legislative resolution.
written. ‒ i welcome the efforts to fully involve the european union in the commission for the conservation of southern bluefin tuna (ccsbt). this is an important step forward in institutional cooperation in joint work to combat illegal fishing and promote the rational and sustainable management of marine resources. the european union has already shown its willingness to cooperate in regional bodies of this kind and full membership of the ccsbt will enable it to play an even more active role. the tuna farming is certainly the most important activity within the croatian mariculture which contributes with a total annual amount to the export balance of about 300 million kuna. the commission has also taken into account the fact that the fishing opportunities available to the union are limited to a limited number of vessels.
written. ‒ i support this proposal because the eu is responsible for adopting measures to conserve marine resources under the common fisheries policy and for concluding agreements with third countries and international organisations. on 1 december 2009, the council authorised the european commission to request, on behalf of the european union, the amendment of the convention rules for the conservation of southern bluefin tuna. the union has a duty to ensure that the convention is applied in a manner that is consistent with the objectives of the convention. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's fisheries policy and will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's fisheries policy.
‒ the commission for the conservation of southern bluefin tuna (ccsbt) is the regional fisheries management organisation (rfmo) responsible for the management of southern bluefin tuna (sbf) in all its areas of distribution. the european union has been a participating non-member of the enlarged commission of the ccsbt since 2006. the ccsbt shall be composed of representatives of the member states and of the commission. the parties shall endeavour to ensure that the ccsbt is implemented in accordance with the principles of good governance and consistency. the european commission, by its proposal for a council decision on the signing, recommended on behalf of the european union to the council the signing and provisional application of the exchange of letters with a view to acquiring membership of the enlarged commission of the ccsbt. the union's conservation approach to the ccsbt is consistent with the ccsbt's objectives and objectives, and the union's conservation approach is consistent with the ccsbt's objectives and objectives. i support this proposal as it seeks to complete the legal process initiated by the signing and provisional application of the exchange of letters for membership of the enlarged ccsbt commission and reaffirms the union's commitment to the long-term conservation and sustainable exploitation of the world's fisheries resources.
written. ‒ as shadow rapporteur, i supported the report which will confirm the full membership of the european union in the enlarged commission of the convention for the conservation of southern bluefin tuna, one of the most valuable marine species. the european union has been an external partner of the commission since 2006 and has participated in its activities, but although it has to act in accordance with conservation measures, it does not have a role in decision-making. the southern bluefin tuna, found in the waters off australia and the indian ocean, is classified as critically endangered, meaning it is facing imminent extinction. since 2006, the european union has been allocated an annual quota of 10 tonnes of southern blue whiting by-catch in that area, which will remain equal to full membership of the enlarged commission. given that the international union for conservation of nature has identified a decline of 80% in the southern bluefin tuna population over the last three generations, i consider it essential that the european union commits itself to respecting the terms of the convention and to act in accordance with the decisions of the commission, with the aim of ensuring and protecting the southern bluefin tuna through appropriate management, conservation and optimal use of resources and through measures to prevent illegal fishing and black market sales.
written. - i support this report on insurance intermediation. i consider that this agreement will improve the way insurance products are marketed and ensure better protection of consumers and investors, in particular through greater transparency of prices and costs, prevention of conflicts of interest and better information and advice when selling insurance products.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a directive of the european parliament and of the council on insurance mediation amending certain parts of the directive with a view to ensuring a level playing field between all actors involved in the sale of insurance products and enhancing the protection of policies in specific circumstances . compared to imd1, the new rules in imd2 clearly enhance consumer protection first of all, the new directive clarifies the so-called tying practice. . whenever an insurance product is sold together with a good (e.g. an airline ticket and the insurance accompanying it), the consumer must be informed of the prices of the individual components and must be offered the opportunity to purchase them separately furthermore, the new rules also mention the extension of the scope of application of imd1 to all distribution channels (e.g. car rental). i believe that this contributes to a greater degree of transparency and to a better quality of insurance i'm not sure.
written. ‒ the recent financial turbulence has highlighted the importance of ensuring effective consumer protection and harmonising the distribution of insurance products. the commission should be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 290 concerning the conditions for the granting of authorisations for insurance, reinsurance and ancillary insurance intermediaries. the directive also applies to undertakings whose regular business is the provision of investment services or the pursuit of investment activities on a professional basis. the directive also promotes fair competition on the market. i supported the report by mr langen's representative because i believe that the insurance market is still very fragmented. it is important to ensure greater transparency and availability of all rules applicable to insurance distribution. these are the conditions for the establishment of the single market and investor protection.
written. ‒ the proposed directive lays down rules for the establishment and pursuit of insurance and reinsurance distribution activities in the union, which form a significant part of the financial systems of the member states. the report recognises the need for minimum harmonisation between member states through the proposal for a directive, noting that it does not prevent member states from maintaining existing or introducing stricter national provisions with a view to consumer protection. the new directive seeks to cover many areas relevant to the transparent conduct of insurance intermediation business, and i consider particularly important the obligation to register with the competent parent bodies and the requirement for an appropriate level of expertise of persons engaged in insurance and reinsurance distribution business. i strongly advocate for the certification of all those involved in these activities, especially at the national level. to protect themselves and their clients, brokers should definitely use professional liability insurance, and i think we should insist on that because there are frequent cases where consumers, due to the negligence or ignorance of the broker, are left without years of paid premiums. furthermore, i consider that the provision of advice and information to consumers is a prerequisite for the conclusion of the policy, with the aim of minimising their exposure to risk. the report on the proposal for an insurance intermediation directive supports the positive changes that come with the new directive and i therefore supported it.
written. ‒ i support the aim of this directive, which seeks to harmonise the rules and regulations on insurance and reinsurance trading and intermediation in order to facilitate cross-border business and increase transparency for consumers. in view of the latter, it is important that that alignment does not prejudice the possibility for member states to introduce even more stringent provisions on consumer protection. the directive guarantees timely and comprehensive information to consumers, which is particularly important in relation to price when signing contracts, and identifies preventive measures to prevent situations of conflict of interest. furthermore, it insists on a high degree of professionalism of insurance intermediaries, which unfortunately is often not the case, so that all intermediaries should be fully familiar with the terms of the policies they distribute. the aim is, inter alia, to ensure the ability of intermediaries to provide a high-quality and personalised recommendation to the consumer. finally, it is important that when an insurance product is offered with another product or service, the directive ensures that the consumer must be informed whether it is possible to purchase them separately, i.e. that the consumer has the possibility to purchase the underlying product without insurance.
written. ‒ i support the report by my colleague werner langen on the proposal for a directive of the european parliament and of the council on insurance mediation. the european insurance market is very fragmented and it is important to highlight the different legal regulation of insurance and reinsurance intermediaries in the member states. there is therefore a need to further strengthen the internal market and create a genuine european internal market for insurance and reinsurance products and services in the union. it is necessary to ensure the application of the same level of consumer protection, i.e. to ensure equal standards, thereby promoting equality and competition on a level playing field between intermediaries. the commission should also be able to request the competent authority to provide information on the risks and risks associated with the insurance or reinsurance intermediary's activities. the commission should be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 26 to amend this directive by amending the annex to this directive.
written. ‒ i support this report because the main objective and subject matter of this amendment is to harmonise national provisions relating to insurance distribution, given that this activity is carried out throughout the union. this directive seeks to harmonise national rules concerning access to the business of insurance and reinsurance distribution. i also support this directive as it seeks to achieve minimum harmonisation and its provisions should not prevent member states from maintaining or introducing more stringent provisions with a view to protecting consumers, provided that those provisions are in conformity with union law, including this directive. this directive should ensure an equal level of consumer protection so that all consumers can benefit from comparable standards. the commission considers that the measures provided for in this decision are in accordance with the opinion of the advisory committee on insurance, insurance and occupational pensions,
written. ‒ the main objective and subject matter of this amendment is to harmonise national provisions relating to insurance distribution. given that this activity is carried out across the union, it is necessary to ensure the necessary degree of harmonisation to offer a high degree of protection to investors and to enable investment firms to provide services across the union as an internal market. this directive should also seek to harmonise national regulations concerning access to the business of insurance and reinsurance distribution. the purpose of this directive is to cover undertakings whose regular business or trade is the provision of investment services and/or the pursuit of investment activities on a professional basis. the scope of this directive should therefore not cover persons pursuing another professional activity. persons providing investment services and/or performing investment activities covered by this directive should be subject to authorisation by their home member states in order to protect investors and the stability of the financial system. given that the financial crisis has revealed weaknesses in the functioning and transparency of financial markets, i support this proposal. i think it'll increase transparency and better protect investors.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of a directive covering the entire insurance intermediation distribution chain because i believe that the proposed approach of minimum harmonisation allows member states to adapt the implementing provisions to the existing specificities of the market and the legal system in each member state. therefore, i consider it appropriate to propose that member states provide for and introduce criminal sanctions and ensure that those sanctions are also implemented in the event of non-compliance with the provisions of this directive. in order to protect the rights of consumers, i consider that it will be of particular importance to establish minimum consumer information obligations, i.e. to provide additional information on the price and cost of the product and whether the seller receives a commission on the sale of the product. the implementation of the proposed measures will also ensure a minimum level of expertise of insurance intermediaries and the conditions of expertise for shelf distribution, and i believe that this will also contribute to better consumer information on the products offered. since i believe that providing key information on insurance products in a standardised format will help consumers in making insurance product decisions, i supported this directive.
written. ‒ i voted for the report on reducing inequality with a special focus on child poverty because i believe that the rate of child poverty in europe is becoming higher and more worrying. the economic crisis has contributed to many problems, including the inability to realize the basic rights of children as set out in the un convention on the rights of the child, which concern health, education and social protection. this issue needs greater political visibility at eu level, and the work of all member states to reduce poverty among children, their families, their exclusion from society and drop-out rates, where the figures are particularly dismaying. one of the objectives of the europe 2020 strategy is to reduce the number of people affected by poverty by at least 20 million by 2020. to achieve this goal, strategic action is needed in many areas in all eu countries at local, regional and national level, and i therefore vote in favour of this report in order to improve the current situation of the large number of poor children in europe.
written. ‒ the un charter of the rights of the child guarantees the fundamental rights of the child, relating to education, health care, housing, play and a balanced diet. one fifth of the union's population is under 18 years of age and more than a quarter of children are at risk of poverty and social exclusion. it is important to strengthen the social rights that the state must guarantee, and to strengthen the medical, psychological and social care of children and young people. socio-economic research is also needed. i supported the report by inês cristina zuber because inequality, poverty and social exclusion of children create a vicious circle that deprives children of opportunities for growth and a secure future and results in more uneducated and unemployed. it is necessary to increase social rights targeted at children, but also at parents. it takes economic strength to keep parents in work and to provide adequate care for their children. croatia leads the way in unemployment and is full of potential and opportunities for growth and development compared to the countries of eastern europe.
written. ‒ the right to education, health, housing, protection, recreation and leisure, balanced nutrition and care in a family environment is guaranteed by the un convention on the rights of the child. croatia is the fifth poorest country in the eu. parents of more than 17,000 children cannot afford a meal for their children in schools. we have succeeded in removing the historical criteria that prevented us from participating in the school milk delivery programme and we have thus at least mitigated a little bit the severe consequences of the economic crisis and poverty that hit us where we are most vulnerable and that is the children. but that's not enough! no child should go hungry! early childhood poverty leaves a lasting and indelible mark on a person. a child is a child, regardless of religion, race, nationality, and all the things that make us different. many children are not on welfare because their parents work but have not received a salary for their work for months. we have to fight it. children are not to blame for the decisions of adults, nor are they to blame for the circumstances in which they find themselves.
written. ‒ the worrying rise in global poverty, especially child poverty, caused inter alia by austerity policies that have deepened the economic crisis, has created the need to develop a concrete, previously non-existent proposal to reduce poverty and inequality in the eu in line with the eu 2020 targets. the s&d group, in cooperation with the committee on employment and social affairs, has therefore taken the initiative to adopt one such proposal. one of the basic tenets of any human rights policy is that every child must have the right to free education, health care, housing and adequate food. the reduction of child poverty and social exclusion should be a visible and explicit objective in all phases of the european semester and a specific section with binding child welfare objectives should be included in each annual growth survey. it is necessary for the commission to establish a specific child guarantee fund to subsidize the most basic needs of children by revising the multiannual financial framework the following year. this appropriation is intended to cover the financing of the european schools in the member states and the european schools in the union. the member states and the commission must make children a priority in the planning and implementation of regional and cohesion policies and invest more in their well-being through the european social fund.
written. ‒ the eu, in exercising its rights and fulfilling its obligations, has a direct impact on the member states and european citizens. it is essential that the issues it addresses are oriented towards all levels of civil society functioning. while international relations and financial policy are the most publicly focused, we must not forget that any society is first and foremost made up of people. there is a great migration crisis in our neighborhood right now and now more than ever we need to show solidarity and care for those in need. the protection of human rights and the provision of basic necessities of life such as food, water, safe housing, health care, education are considered fundamental ideals and we must work to ensure that they are provided for all. statistics show that the number of children at risk of poverty or social exclusion has increased by almost one million and now stands at 26.5 million in the 28 member states. the report shows that the deepening of social inequalities is driving an increase in child poverty and contributing to the continuation of disadvantaged living conditions. the effects of poverty and social exclusion can also last a lifetime and continue for generations to come. poverty is a universal problem and we need to have a quality approach to tackling it. i agree with the measures proposed by mrs zauber and i think that increasing social benefits, revising labour and social legislation, ensuring access to education and health care can respond positively to this situation.
written. ‒ i support this report because i believe that in the 21st century every child, regardless of their origin, religion or nationality, has the right to health care, education, housing, protection and playtime. today, in the eu, not all children have that right. many children in the european union today lack even a regular daily meal, let alone a quality education. a number of children are segregated from the majority community and are prevented from social interaction with other children. i believe that the european union, as a leader in the idea of equality for all, regardless of any differences or handicaps, must give all its citizens equal rights, especially the most vulnerable groups, including children.
written. ‒ children should be guaranteed the right to education, health care, housing, protection, participation in decisions affecting them, entertainment and leisure, balanced nutrition and care in a family environment. key services most often provided by local and regional authorities include health, education, support for parents and families, housing and protection. member states are invited to implement the introduction of universal social assistance for children, such as the provision of subsidised or free meals, especially for the vulnerable and the poor. the adoption of active employment measures within comprehensive strategies and policies is necessary to support parents' access to quality jobs and adequate income and to high-quality public services (in particular in the areas of childcare, education, health, housing and leisure). i support this report because i believe that the fight against child poverty needs to be given greater political visibility at the highest political level in the eu. the effects of child poverty and social exclusion can last a lifetime and are passed on from generation to generation.
written. ‒ this report by the committee on employment and social affairs, as well as previous reports by ms zuber on her own initiative, are already, as usual, a crude and unnecessary intrusion into the competences of individual member states of the union. the report contains a number of noble and universal objectives which i uncompromisingly and fully support; such as increasing effective social support, calling for the creation of proactive and preventive policies targeting children and parents, guaranteeing universal access to health care for children, institutionalizing children as a possible last resort, moving from institutions to family and community-led environments, etc. however, they cannot agree with parts of the report that are disproportionate to the objective pursued, while intentionally violating the principle of subsidiarity on which european union legislation is based. the allegations that reductions in national net minimum wages and social benefits contribute to poverty and social exclusion, the recommendations that member states take on a legal obligation to guarantee unemployment benefits and minimum income for parents, the renewed call to promote gender ideology through the call to guarantee universal, public, free and quality health care in the area of sexual and reproductive rights, and many other similar calls. i consider such calls to be a scandalous and destructive intrusion into the exclusive competence of individual member states of the union. that is why i abstained.
written. ‒ i support the report on cohesion policy and marginalised communities. cohesion policy aims to reduce inequalities in the eu and calls for a european role in the inclusion of marginalised communities. the aim is therefore to encourage the european commission to present a definition of marginalised communities, which would enable all these eu citizens to benefit from the european structural and investment funds embedded in the eu's cohesion policy.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the european parliament's motion for a resolution on cohesion policy and marginalised communities, given that i was active in the preparation of this document as a shadow rapporteur, but also because as a former mayor of the istrian county from 2001 to 2013 i was active in addressing the problems of the roma community in istria in particular, and in this respect i have a great deal of experience which i have tried to transfer to the resolution. it is known that the roma community is also recognised at european level as one of the most vulnerable groups in european society, but what is missing in the european regulation is a clear definition of the term 'marginalized groups' or the criteria that define a group of society to be defined in this way. this would also make it much easier to define measures to improve the social and economic conditions of those groups of companies. it is important to emphasise that cohesion policy, through its instruments, can play a significant role in addressing these problems better and it is considered that it could be modelled on other individual european programmes and in this respect could be clearly defined as a separate programme in the future programming period.
written. ‒ in all european countries we encounter communities that are excluded from society. cohesion policy is one of the european union's main instruments in the fight against inequality. the economic crisis in the member states is leading to deeper problems. restrictions on public spending are contributing to rising unemployment, lack of social security, and lack of affordable health care. i supported the report by member of parliament terry reintke because it contains important recommendations on how to reduce the problems affecting marginalised groups and discrimination. in this context, i believe that using eu funds to include marginalised groups is a way of implementing the cohesion of european society in order to achieve greater support among member states.
written. ‒ marginalized groups include not only minorities but also people with disabilities, people at risk of living below the poverty line or already living below it, migrants, refugees and socially excluded groups in society. in croatia, according to data up to january 2014, there are more than 510 thousand people with disabilities (12% of the total population of the republic of croatia). of these, more than 52% are able-bodied. about 65% of people with disabilities, according to available education data, have no or only primary school education. the rural population, as well as the mountain and hill areas and the border areas that protect and cultivate the land, are particularly marginalised, while the role of rural women in the family and society as a whole is underestimated and insufficiently recognised. additional efforts are needed to include all these groups in society and to instill hope that progress is possible even when the situation seems hopeless. this means not only improving living conditions and standards, access to education, but also securing jobs, increasing participation in social and political life, and better access to the media.
written. ‒ people and groups on the margins of society are those who need help the most, and unfortunately are the most frequently and least accessible. in this regard, the effort to include marginalised communities in the cohesion policy framework is commendable progress towards addressing their poverty, unemployment, poor health conditions and poor access to basic public services and infrastructure. it is important to introduce a single definition of marginalised communities so that their protection can be consistently included in the many regulatory areas, but at the same time it is important to ensure that the intersection of the different bases and identities on which persons are discriminated against and excluded is recognised. this requires addressing not only material conditions such as access to public services, but also the different forms of discrimination and exclusion. two mechanisms are particularly important in this respect: the first is the inclusion of members of marginalised communities in the decision-making structures and the implementation of projects, and the second is the stricter supervision of the implementation of projects aimed at improving the living conditions of these communities.
written. ‒ cohesion policy is the fundamental foundation for the common progress of the whole eu area. the strategic approach to vulnerable marginalised communities, notably the roma, requires an integrated approach to development. this is complemented by new elements introduced in the legislative framework for cohesion policy for the period 2014-2020, which primarily relate to the extension of the scope of the activities to be financed. in order to define a specifically marginalised group, it is important to approach the problem individually and 'bottom-up'. the commission notes that the aid is granted to the beneficiary of the measure, and that the aid is granted to the beneficiary of the measure. in this respect, i agree that the implementation of this programme is only guaranteed by using the funds in a more integrated way, which would mean that projects should be financed comprehensively from several funds. such an approach would be 'clld' (community led local development) as a prerequisite for identifying and addressing specific problems and as enabled by the common provisions regulation. in order to ensure full application of the same, it is important to achieve synergies with the financing instruments at eu and member state level as soon as possible in order to ensure its full application.
written. ‒ i support this report because within the european union there are still various segregated groups of people who are denied the exercise of their rights. a situation where a certain group of people are segregated and separated from the various processes in their community leads to further divisions and separations in society. it is important to involve these people in the workings of the community and to give them all the rights enjoyed by the majority of the population of the european union and thus prevent further segregation and all the negative consequences of this effect. i also support this report because the consequences of the economic crisis and cuts in public services have led to a deterioration in the position of women within marginalized communities.
written. ‒ cohesion policy aims to reduce disparities between regions and the backwardness of the least favoured regions. marginalised communities have become the focus of cohesion policy measures. concerns about social exclusion and commitments to combat it have increased, including the situation of roma and the long-standing need to improve their living conditions. projects financed by eu funds must be of a long-term nature in order to be effective and the funds must support investment in the real needs of the beneficiaries with mechanisms that will guarantee that the target groups are reached. the commission should be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 290 tfeu concerning the establishment of a european data protection supervisor. i support this report because cohesion policy is an important tool on the way to achieving results-based policy making that would effectively deliver smart and sustainable growth in the regions where it is needed most.
written. ‒ as a member of the committee on regional development, i support the parts of the report which stress that in implementing cohesion policy, special attention must be paid to the key challenges of poverty and exclusion of young people, children and people with disabilities. i also fully agree with the parts of the report that speak of a bottom-up approach, i.e. the desire that eu funds, in the implementation phase, should be used in an integrated way through the new territorial development instruments in the 2014-2020 cohesion policy: integrated territorial investment (itu) and community-led regional development (clld), as they also emphasise the important role that civil society can play in that segment. however, i believe that the protection of rights and the allocation of resources should not depend on certain subjective and purely ideological factors such as belonging to arbitrarily selected groups, but exclusively on objective and above all measurable criteria which must be the same for all. that is why i abstained.
written. ‒ i support the report on the eu's role in the un. i support the reform of the un system as a means of enhancing the effectiveness of the organisation and better promoting the eu's foreign policy objectives. i agree that the eu must play an active role within the organisation, uphold its values and contribute to effective multilateralism with the aim of providing global solutions to global problems. i am also pleased that this report sends a strong message about the need for reform of the security council, with the hope that it will soon be possible to see a woman as secretary-general of the united nations.
written. ‒ i voted for the report on the eu's role in the un how to better achieve the eu's foreign policy objectives, as this is a very important topic especially in a situation of great change, instability and uncertainty in the european environment which also affects the security situation within the eu. it should be emphasised that the principles and objectives of the eu's external policy are contained in article 21 of the treaty on european union and are closely linked to the principles and objectives of the un. under the un auspices, the eu is actively involved in promoting world peace, security and progress through its common foreign and security policy and its common security and defence policy. the eu and its member states are the largest financial contributors to the un's general budget and to its provision of humanitarian and official development assistance and peacekeeping operations. in order to better achieve the objectives of the eu's foreign policy as set out in the treaty, the eu should work to strengthen global governance within the un system and increase its influence within it. it is necessary to reiterate the union's call for the un to simplify its structures, budget and working methods, and then to reform the un security council to better reflect global realities and better address security challenges.
written. ‒ the future of the european union is closely linked to world peace, security and development and respect for human rights. the challenges we face require global solutions and greater support from international organisations and partners. the eu-un relationship is currently unsatisfactory, although member states allocate large financial resources to the un's general budget, its peacekeeping operations, and the provision of humanitarian and development assistance. in addition, the eu is a signatory to more than 50 multilateral agreements and un conventions as the only non-state party. for this reason, the eu has earned a special status within the un, to gain greater prominence in foreign policy, and to position itself as a unique international actor. i supported the report by mr paavo väyrynen because i believe that better cooperation between the eu and the un would contribute to the achievement of the eu's foreign policy objectives, especially in terms of the fight against terrorism that europe is currently facing. the unanimous adoption by the un of the french resolution on the fight against terrorism is a step forward in international cooperation to create a secure europe and preserve european values.
the european union and the un share the common values enshrined in the united nations charter and the treaty on european union. the maintenance of international peace and security is crucial at a time when we are witnessing tragic terrorist attacks, both in the european union - the recent one in paris - and in the middle east and north africa. the recent events in syria and iraq, the millions of refugees and the migrant crisis show the importance of having a system based on universal rules and values that can respond to global crises, challenges and threats and that its work must be coordinated and supported by international assistance. we have a responsibility to jointly combat trafficking in human beings and to counter the proliferation and financing of terrorist groups by preventing and disrupting the recruitment, organisation, transport and equipping of terrorist fighters and the financing of their travel and activities. while the eu and its member states make the largest financial contributions to the un's general budget and its provision of humanitarian and official development assistance and peacekeeping operations, the eu and the un must focus more on eradicating poverty, which is a major challenge for sustainable development worldwide. economic, social and environmental sustainability contribute to peace and security. efforts to eradicate the exploitation of workers, especially women and children, should also be strengthened.
written. ‒ the report has two fundamental objectives: to highlight the importance of the union's unique role within the united nations and the importance of further strengthening and reforming the un as the fundamental global space for multilateralism and joint problem-solving. the european union cannot act alone and without a partner in foreign policy in a modern world faced with risks such as terrorism, organised crime, the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction, etc. in this regard, they welcome the efforts towards more active cooperation and participation of the union in the work of the un as well as the union's multiannual progress in establishing an international reputation and forming a unique and recognisable identity as an international actor. the eu must strengthen the promotion of its own foreign policy interests within the un by insisting on its reform towards revitalizing the work of the general assembly, reforming the security council, increasing transparency, effectiveness and legitimacy, etc. the report also highlights the progress made in the implementation of the un convention on the rights of the child (uncrc) and the un convention on the rights of the child (uncrc). however, further steps are needed to protect the right to safe abortion for war rape victims and to protect women's rights in general.
written. ‒ the eu's position within the united nations is certainly important for the achievement of the eu's foreign policy objectives. the two international bodies share the same fundamental principles and common values that should underpin the work of each of these institutions, as well as their joint work. first of all, it should be noted that these are institutions sui generis and that the complexity of their institutional structure characterises their relationship and the possibility of cooperation. the european union has a special observer status at the un, the right to participate in the discussions, to submit proposals and amendments. the aim is to achieve greater cohesion and a genuine common foreign and security policy, so that the union's role in foreign policy becomes more prominent. it is important to note that the eu member states collectively contribute the most to the un budget, both financially and by making available human capital and technical expertise, thus achieving the 'one leader, one budget, one programme' initiative. a strong and stable eu-un partnership is essential for the un's work under all three pillars (peace and security, human rights and sustainable development) and for the eu's role as an active global actor.
written. ‒ i support this report in which parliament recalls that the eu and its member states share the values and principles of the united nations charter, as set out in article 21 (1) teu, and have a key role in promoting those principles as well as the un's objectives through the union's external action. the report confirms the fact that the eu and its member states play an active role and contribute to the work of the un, development and humanitarian aid around the world. in order to better achieve its foreign policy objectives as set out in the treaty, the eu should work to strengthen global governance within the un system and increase its influence within that system as well as within the member states. the eu is committed to actively supporting a comprehensive reform of the un system to strengthen its legitimacy, regional representation, transparency, accountability and effectiveness in responding to the complex and multi-layered challenges of today.
written. ‒ the future of the european union is closely linked to global peace, security, development and human rights. however, the challenges facing the european union require global solutions and greater support from international partners. the eu's relationship with the un is currently not at an enviable level, although the union and its member states make the largest financial contributions to the un's general budget, peacekeeping operations, and the provision of humanitarian and development assistance. in addition, the european union, as the world's largest trading bloc, plays a major role in bilateral and multilateral trade agreements and un conventions, as the only non-state participant. for this reason, the european union needs a special status within the un. it is important to bear in mind that the un system is the world's main forum for improving global governance and represents the best forum for promoting the values and interests of the european union. i fully support the council's position, as i believe that better cooperation between the european union and the un would contribute to the achievement of the union's foreign policy objectives, in particular with regard to peace and security, terrorism, organised crime, regional conflicts, state failures.
written. ‒ the rapporteur focuses on the idea of reforming the structure of the united nations in such a way as to formalise a dual governance structure - on the one hand, the security council and on the other, the sustainable development council, which would coordinate all areas of action of the united nations, except security. although the proposal is disproportionate to the theme of the report (which does not aim at reforms within the un system itself), the fact is that the european union and its member states make the largest financial contributions to the un's general budget. in the light of the recent terrorist attacks and the security threats europe is facing on a daily basis, the union needs the support of its international partners more than ever; i therefore consider the rapporteur's call for the european union and its member states to increase their political influence within the structures of this organisation to be justified, as this process would also allow for a better implementation of international obligations. i also support the rapporteur's call for simplification of structures, budgets and working methods within the united nations, in particular with regard to the reform of the dysfunctional and often criticised economic and social council; towards economic, social, environmental and developmental efficiency. that's why i voted yes.
mr president, i welcome the commissioner, we are not seeking a single tax policy at european union level, but the member states should meet the minimum requirements of clearly defining tax rules which must be simple, accessible to all and fair. the fight against tax fraud and tax evasion must be part of our joint efforts to strengthen the single market. the commission notes that the tax rulings of the tax administration of the united kingdom are not binding on the tax administration of the united kingdom. tax competition must not be a tax war because it will never benefit the citizens. i therefore support the work of the committee on taxation and believe it is important to continue to send messages from the european parliament about the importance of fair competition and that a fair tax policy is one of its key elements.
mr. president, the fight against tax evasion is a noble cause because allowing such a practice would be unfair and discriminatory against those who operate conscientiously and in accordance with laws and regulations. but i cannot support a report that, under the cover of this struggle, promotes a repressive tax system and the introduction of a common consolidated tax base for the whole of the european union. such initiatives seem to punish those member states which, by introducing a tax incentive policy, have become more competitive and thus shifted a share of revenue to those who have stifled entrepreneurship. i believe that such practices should not be punished but rewarded and thus encourage all member states to become more competitive and attractive for investors and entrepreneurs by reducing tax and administrative barriers. we're not going to reduce tax evasion by further stifling entrepreneurs, by increasing the power of tax administrations, or by punishing tax advisors, corporations, but solely by a more reasonable and stimulating tax policy.
madam president, i would like to congratulate the commissioner and thank the rapporteurs who have worked so hard on this important report. the 2016 budget was adopted in exceptional circumstances. in addition to providing funds for innovation, investment, entrepreneurship, the young people we need to employ and keep in our countries, education and research, the 2016 budget was also supposed to respond to other challenges: from the migration crisis, to the war turmoil that has begun to take its worst form within our borders, and then the crisis in greece, the crisis in the agricultural sector and everything else. that is why the alignment process took a long time and i am glad that it resulted in an increase in employment, education and solidarity. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the budget and the implementation of the budgetary discipline and the budgetary discipline.
madam president, the wave of migration that has swept across europe has long since assumed the characteristics of a real humanitarian and security disaster, and the mobilisation of the instruments of flexibility at this moment only confirms that we have met the crisis unprepared. this is unfortunately just another proof that the commission is not thinking long term, but is making one mistake after another, which then costs european taxpayers dearly. the war in syria did not start yesterday, and refugees have been leaving that country for a very long time as well. it was clear from day one that turkey, lebanon and jordan could not take in millions of people forever and that if we did not stop the war, the columns would head for europe. now that it is clear that terrorists have also arrived in these convoys and that managing the crisis is costing us hundreds of millions of taxpayers' euros, i would like to ask the commission whether it has any concrete plans to stop the crisis at its source or whether it plans to spend more and more money every year on the care of the migrants we have received in this wave.
member of the commission.– mr president, thank you all very much for your interventions. firstly, i want to say very strongly that we need strong european industry. we need a strong european steel industry. we need strong, modernised and innovative european industry, and this is the basis for all of our actions. of course, the steel sector that we are talking about today is a really broad economic issue. it has to be tackled both on the national and the european level. you are right that price differences are really extreme in the member states. however, member states have to deal with energy taxation, and what some of you were mentioning is true. industry needs stable energy prices, and we are working on this not only in the energy market union strategy but also in all of the documents and actions that i am taking. i also agree that we need a massive effort to support the modernisation of european industry. everything shows that we really must not – and it would be stupid if we did – become dependent on steel from outside of the eu. we need a much stronger anti-dumping policy, but i also have to mention that we are today using trade defence instruments – for example, steel anti—dumping and anti-subsidy measures, registration of imports, threat of industry – but we have to be very much stronger and very much focused on this. i am quite sure that if the steel industry – or any other industry – disappears from europe, then research, development and innovation expenditure will follow, and then the services will follow. so we have to do all that we can, together with the member states, to keep them in europe. as regards giving china free market status, i know that the issue is very sensitive and that we have to be very careful about it. this topic is now under legal analysis. the debate in the college has not started yet. i repeat: i will be very careful about it. i am fully aware that it will have a major negative impact on industry in all sectors, so we will have to carefully balance, in the college, geopolitical considerations with our industrial interest. we are currently implementing a lot of measures from the steel action plan. we will keep you updated on this, but we are also analysing the state of implementation in the context of the high level group. the next meeting of the high level group on energy-intensive industries is foreseen for 18 december – in a few weeks’ time – and it will be an occasion to discuss the issues raised today during the debate and by mr martin’s report on the base metals industry, as well as the use of the trade defence instruments. we really have to study very carefully the proposals included in the report, and we will do so. i also want to mention our finishing work on the circular economy package. i am responsible for this, together with commissioner vella. adoption by the college is foreseen for 2 december. one of the actions will concentrate on secondary raw materials. i think it is important to let you know that we also have a lot of things related to the steel industry in this package. we have to make more use of our secondary raw materials, and we have to make full use of recycled metal. this, i hope, will help our industry to produce at lower cost. in line with the conclusions of the extraordinary competitiveness council on steel of 9 november, i will convene a special high-level stakeholder conference. we should address at this conference, with all of the stakeholders, the very critical issues such as investment – including the role which the investment plan will play in these sectors – energy, the circular economy package, trade and, last but not least, research and development, in order to secure the future of our industry. i am very eager to use all possible tools that we have. i will try to coordinate the use of them. of course, not all of them are my responsibility, but i will try to coordinate all of the measures that can be taken for the future of the european steel industry.
member of the commission.– mr president, i welcome parliament’s clear and constructive feedback on the eu strategic framework on health and safety at work 2014-2020. in particular, i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr christensen, for putting forward such a rich and balanced report. this will definitely contribute to the successful implementation of the eu occupational safety and health (osh) strategic framework. the commission shares parliament’s views on the importance of strengthening risk prevention policies and promoting a culture of prevention in all companies across europe, irrespective of their size or area of activity. this is indeed about fundamental rights as well as competitiveness. in the commission work programme for 2016, adopted on 27 october, we committed to reviewing the existing occupational health and safety legislation based on a detailed ex-post evaluation. our ambition is to improve the efficiency and effectiveness of the european legislative framework for protecting workers while making the rules simpler and reducing regulatory burden and red tape, in particular for small and micro-enterprises. in addition, we need to enhance the protection of workers’ health and safety and reflect recent scientific advances. i share your sense of urgency on the fight against work-related cancer. we cannot stand by whilst hundreds of thousands of people per year die from work-related cancers. there are substances for which a decade ago we did not know yet that they cause cancers, but now, with what we do know, we need to act and to protect workers from being exposed to excessive doses at work. mid-next year i intend to table a legislative proposal to extend the list of substances for which there are occupational exposure limits in place. european union policy in this area, of course, goes beyond tabling new legislative initiatives. the report draws attention to a number of issues and formulates a number of recommendations on which i would like to comment in particular. first, i do share parliament’s view on the importance of improving the implementation record of european and national occupational health and safety legislation, as only effective results on the ground can make a real difference for people in their daily working life. the report highlights the role of the ec senior labour inspectors committee as a platform for the exchange of information and collaboration between member states and the importance of sufficient resources for labour inspectorates, but effective implementation and workplace compliance with osh regulation and legislation is not only a responsibility of enforcement bodies. it is in the first place a common responsibility of employers and employees, and social partners too have an important role to play in the design and implementation of preventive measures. the tripartite european occupational safety and health agency is in bilbao and is doing excellent work in promoting health and safety campaigns and supporting implementation through user-friendly tools, in particular for smes. i welcome parliament’s support for this work. secondly, i endorse the impetus that the report gives for more awareness of gender issues in health and safety, in line with the ilo decent work agenda. the european strategic framework acknowledges that specific risks affecting women deserve particular attention and require targeted action. in this area also, the bilbao agency promotes the identification and exchange of good practice on ways to improve osh conditions for women. thirdly, i share your concerns about psychosocial risks in the workplace, including stress and depression. report after report points to stress and depression as a growing cause of absenteeism and of what one has started to call ‘presentism’, a physical presence at work but sub-optimal output because of stress-related factors. the human and economic costs are enormous. one of the priority actions foreseen in the european osh strategic framework is the identification and dissemination of good practice on preventing mental health problems. the commission has recently published a new study on mental health in the workplace which provides practical guidance for workers and employers on how to deal with this issue. the european agency for safety and health at work is active in this area, for example, with its pan-european awareness campaign on stress and psychosocial risks carried out in 2014 and 2015. the emergence of new risks does not mean that we should not continue to pay attention also to traditional health risks, such as the prevention of work-related muscular-skeletal disorders. we will pay particular attention to this in the context of our ongoing ex-post evaluation of the european legislative acquis and possible subsequent initiatives. as i have underlined before, my aim is to provide maximum protection on the ground in the most sensitive and sensible way. last but not least, i would like to thank parliament for its efforts to conclude the trilogues on the platform for the fight against undeclared work. i welcome the agreement found by the co-legislators and i do hope that the platform can start its work as soon as possible next year. as parliament’s report on health and safety recalls, undeclared work unfortunately often brings with it also precarious health and safety conditions. fighting undeclared work will thus also help us tackle some of the most dangerous and unhealthy working conditions. let me assure you once again of the commission’s commitment to high health and safety standards for workers in the european union and to modernising and simplifying the rules with a view to adapting them to new developments and better implementation on the ground. i really do appreciate your support in this endeavour.
the rapporteur for the opinion of the femm committee. mr president, as a specialist in occupational medicine, i have often encountered poor working conditions. the economic crisis has worsened working conditions and it is important to include gender gaps in the strategic framework for the coming period so that employers can take this dimension into account in their risk management activities. there's a stereotype in society that women do less risky jobs, which results in fewer preventive measures. however, it is precisely because of their psychophysical characteristics, their role in society and in the household, that women are often affected by diseases, especially musculoskeletal diseases. the second most common problem is stress, often associated with sexual harassment. it is responsible for almost half of the lost working days each year and its cost to society is estimated at eur 240 billion per year. concerns also arise about the health of pregnant women and mothers with dangerous chemicals for which there are no limits yet in the eu. i thank the rapporteur, i am sorry that there is no directive on maternity leave in the text... the president cut the speaker off
on behalf of the verts/ale club. mr president, the right to work and health is a right of every citizen of the european union. aware of the challenge of the economic crisis, the ageing workforce and the strong link between job security and the general benefits to society, we have a duty to provide a legal framework for the realisation of a sustainable working environment. the new strategic framework must therefore contribute to improving working conditions by further consolidating national strategies, by stronger enforcement of laws and measures, by removing unnecessary administrative burdens and by providing practical support, in particular to small enterprises, in complying with health regulations. i would particularly stress the importance of occupational health and safety measures addressing the specific challenges and risks faced by women in the workplace, including sexual harassment. i therefore call on the commission and the social partners to ensure a balanced representation of men and women in all social dialogue processes and to take into account the gender dimension as part of the revision of the strategic framework on safety and health at work for 2016. i call on the commission to develop a european strategy to combat violence against women at work and, as part of this process, to assess the revision of directive 2006/54 in order to broaden its scope to include new forms of violence and harassment. i call on the member states to implement commission recommendation 92/131 to raise awareness of sexual harassment and other forms of sexual harassment at the workplace.
mr. president, "he who misnames things contributes to the misery of the world", said albert camus, and he perfectly described the moment we live in. even after the charlie hebdo attacks in january of this year, many still refused to call things by their real names, and ignored warnings that terrorists were hiding among the unfortunate in the refugee colony. political correctness has become a dogma, and the safety of our citizens has been pushed into the background. it is sad and shameful that 130 innocent people have to die and nearly 400 be injured in order for the police to go on a raid against extremists who are actually long known to the law enforcement and security forces. the victims of paris must not be honored with candles, flowers, prayers or moving words, but above all with determination in the fight against islamic extremism and all other forms of extremism.
first of all, i would like to express my solidarity and condolences to the families of the victims, to the french nation and to the french state. president, the terrorist attacks in paris are not being carried out. they were used for terrorism, for terrorism to spread fear. we now have the responsibility to show the union's ability and capability to respond to the threat of terrorism within and beyond our borders and we demand our unity to defeat so-called islamist and terrorist sources. no, we must not tolerate the amalgamation of terrorist groups with the islamic community or our members, nor the creation of a refugee church with any knowledge of terrorism. therefore, the common package of measures of a legislative, security and operational nature, the action of eurojusta and europol, the adoption of the so-called pnr directive, and the adoption of the directive on data protection and the prevention of terrorist financing and the misuse of the internet are key steps that we must take now. schengen is not a question of control, but...
written. expressing our sincere condolences to the victims of the paris terrorist attack and our great solidarity with the french republic, i want to make it clear: terrorists cannot, must not and will not win. europe must remain true to its values: freedom and an open society without creating divisions on religious or national grounds, because that is exactly what the terrorists want. in all this europe must have one and the same position. europe must immediately unite all its forces, and especially all those security services which are directly concerned with the security of our security. we must also unite all countries that are prepared to destroy without calculation the islamic state which is the greatest threat to world peace. we need to lead a coalition and involve russia, the united states, iran, turkey and all the actors who will be willing to win this new world war.
written. while the whole world sympathizes with paris and condemns terrorism, i think it is important to remember that terrorism happens every day in countries beyond the european union, with the middle east and north africa being the most affected, and often turned a blind eye to it before it happened on european soil. on the same day that all thoughts and prayers were directed to paris, it was also a day of mourning in lebanon. lebanon mourned the 43 victims of the beirut suicide bombing, the victims of the attack that left behind two hundred wounded. according to a un estimate, in four years in syria, 10,000 children and 250,000 adults have been killed, people are being persecuted, driven from their homes and killed. in nigeria, boko haram abducted at least 2,000 women and girls in a year, and in the last few years, killed more than 10,000 civilians, while more than 250,000 people have been displaced. last year alone, 32,658 people lost their lives in terrorist attacks. terrorism has no religion, no nationality, nothing to do with culture and civilization. terrorism is a crime that i condemn most strongly and i ask that all the mechanisms that we can use to put an end to this crime be used.
written. ‒ i support this report on the revision of the forecast for traditional own resources. the report encourages member states to use the extra money to address the current refugee crisis.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution of the european parliament on the council position on draft amending budget no 8/2015 of the european union for the financial year 2015 - own resources and the european data protection supervisor, as it revises the traditional own resources forecasts and enters into the budget the remaining own resources balances for 2014 and 2015. it is important to emphasise that this amendment reduces the member states' contribution to the budget of the european union. however, i believe that additional financial resources are needed to help mitigate the impact of the refugee crisis, which is a challenge for the union budget. i therefore consider that the resources of these amendments should have been clearly directed precisely towards addressing this problem.
written. ‒ member states have reduced their contributions to the union budget by eur 9 403.4 million, which, together with the increased expenditure caused by the refugee crisis, puts the european union at a disadvantage. the commission has also been informed that the member states are not fulfilling their financial obligations in relation to the mutual funds for africa and syria and the un agencies providing assistance to refugees. according to the latest commission estimates, member states should pay a further eur 2,3 billion in aid. the draft amending budget shall include an audit of own resources, the entry of the balance of own resources arising from vat and gni for 2014 and 2015, and the forecasts for other own resources. i supported the report by mr eider gardiazabal rubia because i believe that budgetary changes are necessary to enable the european union to cope as well as possible with the new situations. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's macro-financial assistance to the countries of central and eastern europe, including the countries of the former soviet union, in order to ensure that the union's macro-financial assistance is consistent with the union's macro-financial assistance.
written. ‒ draft amending budget no 8/2015 shows a reduction of the member states' contribution under gni of eur 9,4 billion. this is a consequence of the great economic crisis in the member states. i regret that the commitment appropriations and payment appropriations in the budget of the european data protection supervisor have been reduced by eur 123 474. the tasks and duties of the european supervisor are important because they ensure compliance with strict privacy rules through the monitoring and processing of personal data by the eu administration to ensure compliance with privacy rules, advise the eu institutions and bodies on all aspects of the processing of personal data and related policies and legislation, handle complaints and investigations, cooperate with member states' national authorities to ensure data protection consistency, and monitor new technologies. i hope that member states will fulfil their obligations to the african trust fund, the syria trust fund and the un agencies that provide assistance to refugees, because the refugee crisis is one of the biggest problems and challenges that we have to face and actively start addressing.
written. ‒ the refugee and migrant crisis requires a good and timely allocation of aid resources, which is why the lack of agreed assistance to african and syrian funds and un agencies dealing with refugee assistance is a cause for concern. i therefore support the union's determination to provide additional financial resources in relation to the refugee crisis, in particular for the provision of humanitarian assistance on transit routes. in this way, we tackle two fundamental hotspots of the problem: the areas from which refugees come and the routes they travel. in view of croatia being one of the important transit countries, the additional assistance will certainly allow the croatian authorities to continue to provide services of the same quality, in an organised manner and with full regard for the plight of these people.
written. ‒ i believe that in times of the current refugee crisis and attacks on our security, it is necessary to take genuine account of the basic tool of all the measures we plan to adopt in the budget. the commission notes that the gni-based own resource is not a source of revenue for the union but is used to finance the gni-based own resource. given the individual problems faced by member states, i believe that solving this problem will become increasingly complex. the union's external action should be coordinated with the union's external action, including the development of the union's external action and the union's external action. the commission shall be assisted by the european data protection supervisor, who shall be responsible for the implementation of the budget.
written. ‒ i support this report because draft amending budget no 8/2015 concerns the revision of the traditional own resources (customs) forecast and the entry in the budget of the balance of own resources arising from vat and gni for 2014 and the balance of own resources arising from vat and gni for 2015. this appropriation is intended to cover the financing of the european schools in the member states and the european schools in the union.
written. ‒ draft amending budget (dab) no 8 for 2015 refers to the following: revision of the forecast for traditional own resources (customs) entry in the budget of the balance of own resources based on vat and gni for 2014 entry in the budget of the balance of own resources based on vat and gni for 2015 update of the forecast for other revenue the selection procedure for the new european data protection supervisor and his assistant was not completed when the draft budget for 2015 was prepared. the edps also requested the commission to provide additional information on the edps's activities and to provide the edps with the necessary information to enable him to carry out his duties. the edps's former assistant was finally appointed to replace the new edps, which means that part of the provisional allowance (eur 56 160) will not be used. the total effect in terms of revenue is a reduction of the gni contribution of eur 9,4 billion. i support this proposal because i believe that the budget should be updated in line with the development of the situation.
written. ‒ i supported the report on the draft amending budget relating to the revision of the traditional own resources forecast and the european data protection supervisor, as the implementation of this amendment will reduce the member states' contribution to the 2015 budget by a total of eur 9.4 billion. however, i must point out that this report inappropriately includes a proposal to redirect part of these funds to address the current refugee crisis. in particular, i strongly oppose the rapporteur's view that this is the way to meet financial commitments to the african mutual fund, the syrian mutual fund and un agencies providing assistance to refugees, as i believe that member states must decide for themselves how they will meet their obligations. however, since there is no legal basis for this request and the council refused to accept this proposal, it remains a recommendation without legal effect. that's why i supported the report.
written. ‒ i support the report on the mobilisation of the flexibility instrument for urgent budgetary measures to deal with the refugee crisis. the commission shall submit a report to the european parliament and to the council on the implementation of this decision. this is the first use of this instrument on this scale, which speaks volumes about the seriousness of the current refugee crisis.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the european parliament resolution on the proposal for a decision of the parliament and of the council on the mobilisation of the flexibility instrument for urgent budgetary measures to deal with the refugee crisis, in accordance with point 12 of the interinstitutional agreement between the parliament, the council and the commission on budgetary discipline and cooperation in budgetary matters and on sound financial management, as it is clear from the context that the flexibility of the union budget is crucial to deal with external and unforeseeable challenges such as the refugee crisis. the commission shall be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 264 concerning the conditions for the participation of third countries in the work of the european border and coast guard agency. however, the mobilisation of the flexibility instrument will mitigate the consequences of the crisis, although it is clear that the amount of eur 1 530 million mobilised will not be sufficient with a visible need for synergistic action by the international community.
written. ‒ due to the proportional increase in the refugee and migrant wave, a large additional amount needs to be urgently mobilised to finance crisis mitigation measures. the total amount of the flexibility instrument for the financial year 2016, which includes the unused amounts from the financial years 2014 and 2015, has been fully spent and the ceilings do not allow for the adequate financing of emergency measures. i supported the proposal to mobilise a financial instrument of eur 1 530 million in committed appropriations. i also agree to the allocation of appropriate appropriations for payments over the next four years. the refugee and migration wave affecting the republic of croatia requires increased resources not provided for in the budget, therefore the need for budgetary flexibility is emphasised, including the distribution of resources among member states depending on the needs of the migration crisis.
written. - the refugee crisis will not solve itself. on the contrary, turning your head the other way will make the problem bigger and bigger. i believe that the problem should be solved at the place where it arises and that we must ensure that people have the conditions to stay in their home and their homeland. but it is a process that requires political will and participation from all. at this point, we need to help the countries that are under the greatest pressure from the refugee wave, because the trends show that the influx of new refugees will not stop so quickly. according to the ministry of interior of the republic of croatia, since the beginning of the migration crisis until today, almost 420 000 migrants have entered the republic of croatia. however, so far only 9 of them have requested asylum in the republic of croatia. according to some estimates, the refugee crisis costs the country 2 million kuna a day. the actual costs to date are difficult to estimate, as not all invoices are collected at the same time and individual ministries finance the costs from their own budget and will be reimbursed afterwards. on 6 november 2015, the european commission granted the republic of croatia eur 16,4 million from the crisis funds for the costs incurred in managing the refugee crisis. i support the report of the committee on budgets on the mobilisation of the flexibility instruments, which will be dedicated to the management of the refugee crisis.
written. ‒ two things are important about this proposal for a decision on the mobilisation of the flexibility instruments. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's macro-financial assistance to the countries of central and eastern europe, including the countries of the former soviet union, in order to ensure that the union's macro-financial assistance is consistent with the union's macro-financial assistance. the commission has not found any evidence that the union industry has been able to maintain its profitability during the period considered. in this light, i welcome the decision to mobilise the flexibility instrument in the amount of eur 1 506 million in commitment appropriations under title 3 'security and citizenship' and eur 24 million under title 4 'global europe'.
written. ‒ there is no doubt that more budgetary resources should be allocated to a range of eu funds and bodies dealing with entry and schengen controls in order to meet the challenges of border control, freedom of movement within the union and european solidarity. syria is a key focus, but not the only one, and needs to be addressed comprehensively within the new eu foreign and security policy strategy by bringing together external, security and defence, development, humanitarian and trade mechanisms to enable the eu, together with the us and other strategic partners, to act more engaged as a global actor and address the causes of the crisis. council regulation (eu) no 1311/2013 provides for a flexibility instrument to finance, in a given financial year, clearly identified expenditure which cannot be financed within the limits of the ceilings available for one or more other headings up to a maximum of eur 471 million (2011 prices) which can be used for a maximum of 3 years (n+3). in view of the possibilities in that regulation, i consider it justified to mobilise eur 1,504 million through the flexibility instrument for this issue. i would like to emphasise that to date over 440 000 refugees have entered the republic of croatia as a transit country, and that it is therefore very important to strengthen the management of the external borders, as we must not allow the mediterranean to become a place of death for those who want to live in europe.
written. ‒ i support this report because the refugee crisis requires the mobilisation of additional appropriations to finance migration and home affairs policy. i believe that the unused annual amounts from the flexibility instruments of previous years should be used. furthermore, i am of the opinion that the payment appropriations corresponding to the envisaged mobilisation of the flexibility instrument should be allocated over several financial years (eur 710 million in 2016, eur 652,9 million in 2017, eur 82,7 million in 2018 and eur 58,5 million in 2019) all in accordance with the annual budgetary procedure.
the commission has also decided to extend the scope of the financial instrument to cover the following areas: after a detailed examination of all possibilities for reallocation, it appeared necessary to allocate an additional eur 1 504 million from the financial envelope already established to finance measures in the migration sector. this appropriation is intended to cover the financing of the european schools in the member states and the european schools in the union. the reallocation of funds in accordance with the activation of the flexibility instrument is as follows:• eur 710 million for 2016• eur 652,9 million for 2017• eur 82,7 million for 2018• eur 58,5 million for 2019 i support the allocation and redistribution of funds, because i believe that in the current migration situation, efforts to address it should be financially supported.
written. ‒ the call for mobilisation of the budgetary flexibility instrument was published in october and calls for an additional eur 1.5 billion to finance measures related to the migration and refugee crisis. the amount of assigned revenue in accordance with article 21 (3) of the financial regulation is estimated at eur 100000. in principle, i fully agree with the indisputable fact that significant additional resources are needed in that segment and that the flexibility instrument must be triggered in certain emergency situations, such as the one europe is currently in. although i voted in favour of the above, i must express my opposition to this specific proposal for a measure because i do not think that the commission has made a sufficiently careful and detailed analysis of all the possibilities of the most efficient withdrawal of money from the budget by cancelling projects without proven added value before it burdens the budgets of individual member states of the union with the amount it requires. i also oppose forced relocation schemes because i believe that only the member states should decide on this; each of them knows best the specifics of their own situation in dealing with the refugee crisis.
written. ‒ i support the report on the activation of the solidarity fund for the payment of advances in the 2016 budget. the eu solidarity fund shall aim to enable the union to respond in a rapid, efficient and flexible manner to emergencies. the mobilisation order for the fund for the payment of advances allows for the timely availability of budgetary resources and a faster disbursement of assistance to candidate countries in the event of an accident in 2016.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution of the european parliament on the proposal for a decision of the parliament and of the council on the activation of the eu solidarity fund, in accordance with point 11 of the interinstitutional agreement between the parliament, the council and the commission on budgetary discipline, on cooperation in budgetary matters and on sound financial management, for the purpose of making the payment of the appropriations for the 2016 budget, as this allows for much more efficient and rapid action in the event of emergencies caused by natural disasters. over the past years, we have witnessed natural disasters that were not followed by appropriate and effective measures in the short term. the commission should also be able to provide the member states with information on the progress of the implementation of the union's macro-financial assistance. this also contributes to achieving a higher level of solidarity and credibility of the european union.
written. ‒ the european solidarity fund was created to help member states respond to emergencies caused by major natural disasters. the fund may provide financial assistance to member states and countries involved in accession negotiations in the event of 'major natural disasters'. i supported the report by mr christoforou on the activation of the eusf within the general budget of the european union. the eusf contributes to sending clear political messages of solidarity and provides much-needed assistance to citizens.
‒ croatia was hit by severe natural disasters in 2014, from an ice storm and winter to flooding following heavy rainfall in may. the european solidarity fund has helped financially to repair the damage caused. although the state authorities carried out the necessary actions and repairs, the time taken to repair the damage with the repair of family houses and commercial buildings was relatively long, preventing the continuation of normal life for a large number of residents of the affected area for about a year. when a major natural disaster such as a flood or an earthquake affects a large number of people, rapid, sufficient and well-targeted assistance to the affected area is essential to the confidence of the affected persons in the institutions of the state and of the union. rapid intervention prevents the emergence of unintended consequences such as disease, accidents, environmental pollution and job losses, but also facilitates the recovery of the affected area to cease as soon as possible to be a recipient of aid and to continue its economic and any other form of life of its citizens. the commission should also be able to use the appropriations entered in the budget for the 2016 financial year to cover the expenditure incurred by the union in the previous financial year. in this way, the european union shows its concern and solidarity for its citizens, enabling timely financial interventions when help is most needed.
written. ‒ i support the proposal to ensure payment of the advances and commitments in the 2016 budget under the activation of the eu solidarity fund to the amount of eur 50 000 000. as this is a fund whose basic function is to respond to natural disasters, and which my country has also used on many occasions, timely assistance is an important, if not the most important, element of assistance to the affected countries. in this respect, i agree with the rapporteur that the strengthening of the rapid response capacity and the payment of advances are clear political messages of solidarity. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament and the council adopt a common position on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending regulation (ec) no 1260/1999 as regards the application of the principle of equal treatment for men and women in matters of social security.
written. ‒ i support this report because it enables the european union solidarity fund to respond quickly, flexibly and effectively to emergencies and to show solidarity with the population of regions affected by disasters. the amount of the appropriations entered in this article may not exceed eur 500 million, as laid down in article 10 of council regulation (eu, euratom) no 1311/20133. the amount of eur 50 million is to be made available for the payment of advances by means of appropriations entered in the general budget of the union. i therefore supported the proposal to activate the amount of eur 50 million for the payment of advances.
written. ‒ the aim of this proposal is to help member states to obtain financial support for natural disasters more quickly than is possible through the ordinary procedure. to that end, it is appropriate to allow for the payment of an advance at the request of the member state concerned shortly after the submission of the application to the commission for a financial contribution from the fund. the member state may request the payment of an advance. the commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down the rules for the application of this regulation. the amount of the advance shall not exceed 10% of the expected amount of the financial contribution and shall in no case exceed eur 30 000 000. the commission shall, when determining the final amount of the financial contribution, take into account the amount of the advance before the payment of the remaining amount of the financial contribution. the commission shall ensure the recovery of unduly paid advances. i support this proposal from the council because i believe that this proposal will send a clear message of solidarity and provide the necessary assistance to the affected citizens. the payment of an advance is one of the ways in which the union can help.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the mobilisation of the european union solidarity fund, which mobilises eur 50 million in the draft general budget for the payment of advances for 2016. the european union solidarity fund was established in 2002 to provide financial assistance to countries affected by major natural disasters or regional emergencies. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's macro-financial assistance in the context of the union's macro-financial assistance. i believe that by being prepared to respond immediately, we are sending a clear political message of solidarity and much-needed help to the affected citizens.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the draft legislative resolution of the european parliament on the joint text for the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2016, which was adopted by the conciliation committee in the context of the budgetary procedure, because i believe that it takes into account the challenges facing the union. first, a flexibility instrument has been strengthened to allow for better management of emergencies and contingencies. in addition, special attention is paid to growth, job creation and the youth employment initiative, and to european programmes supporting such measures and activities. measures have also been taken to help farmers, strengthen humanitarian aid and mitigate the impact of the refugee crisis. i believe that the budgetary procedure needs to maintain a high level of transparency, clarity and consistency of european policies in order to be balanced and in line with real needs.
written. council regulation (eu) no 1311/2013 established the multiannual financial framework for the period 2014-2020 in order to ensure that the european union is able to best pursue its policy objectives relating to growth and youth employment. each year, an annual budget is also adopted, which also seeks to respond to the challenges expected in that year. the commission shall be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 290 concerning the establishment of a european data protection supervisor. i supported the report by meps gérard depreza and josé manuel fernandes because i believe that responsible budgetary investment is key to achieving growth and development in the european union.
written. ‒ the times and circumstances in which the european union finds itself today call for particular courage and urgent and decisive action. on the one hand, an endless wave of refugees is sweeping across europe, while terrorist attacks are worrying our peoples. on the other hand, we are faced with instability in our eastern neighbourhood and the pressure this crisis is putting on the union's agriculture. the economic crisis we've only just begun to recover from is on fragile footing, and the package of measures that should accelerate sluggish economic growth is just beginning. the key word is trust. confidence in ourselves that we can overcome the current circumstances and that we can make europe, and our member states, more resilient and stronger. i voted for this bill because it instills confidence. it responds to priorities and recognizes the needs of the day. money to deal with the refugee problem and to strengthen external border controls is secured, and money to stimulate economic growth and employment, especially that to stimulate youth employment. the budget recognises the importance of research-based progress and better connectivity. the budget also provides confidence in the identified needs in the agricultural sector. the 500 million additional funds available almost immediately to those most affected in the dairy sector is the answer that european food producers want and need to hear.
written. ‒ i support the text adopted on the eu budget for 2016 of €155 billion in commitments and €143.9 billion in payments, as agreed by parliament and the council on 14 november. in particular, i welcome parliament's success in securing the maximum possible funding for immigration and refugees, horizon 2020, small and medium-sized enterprises and for students participating in the erasmus programme. i consider particularly important the boost to european competition seen in the additional funding for smes (eur 14,3 million), funding for horizon 2020 (eur 184,5 million), eur 150 million for the connecting europe facility and erasmus+ funding (eur 6,6 million). i am pleased that a compromise has been reached by all the institutions on the allocation of funds for this purpose. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's financial instruments, including the european regional development fund, and will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's macro-financial assistance. i consider the new budget to be an improvement on last year's and to provide a balanced framework for operating in the coming year, respecting the current monetary situation but also fostering growth and development.
written. ‒ i welcome the agreement reached on the eu budget for 2016 in the conciliation process, which sets a total level of €155 billion for commitments and €143.89 billion for payments. it is necessary to highlight the complex circumstances in which the negotiations were conducted. the eu is facing security threats following the terrorist attacks in paris, as well as an unprecedented humanitarian and refugee crisis that require the urgency and effectiveness of joint action and the allocation of financial resources. the 2016 budget is a function of growth, jobs and solidarity, which are also the priorities of the ppe group. i believe that all financial resources have been used and all the flexibility instruments have been mobilised to deal effectively with the unemployment and migration crisis. in this context and from the point of view of croatia, it is important to increase the funds for the cosme (small and medium-sized enterprises) programmes by eur 14,3 million, erasmus+ (promoting the education of young people) by eur 6,6 million, as well as eur 2 billion in commitments and eur 500 million in payments foreseen for the guarantee fund of the european fund for strategic investments aimed at strengthening the economy.
written. ‒ i support this report because all the budget lines which have not been amended by either the council or parliament and the lines where parliament accepted the council's amendments during their separate reading have been confirmed. the total amount of the commitment in the 2016 budget is set at eur 155 004,2 million. the report further shows that the amount of appropriations for payments in the 2016 budget is eur 143 885,3 million. the eu contribution in commitment appropriations and payment appropriations and the number of posts for all decentralised agencies are set at the level proposed by the commission in the draft budget.
‒ the european commission proposes the draft annual budget for the european union, and then parliament and the member states agree on each figure in the draft. supporting farmers in the eu, improving infrastructure, helping countries dealing with syrian refugee immigration are activities that money has to be budgeted for. the adoption of the european budget is a major decision because it requires complex preparation. the priorities were presented by the members and the draft budget was defined on the basis of these. the draft defines eur 155 billion in commitments and eur 143,8 billion in payments. the budget amounts to about 1% of the gross national income (gdp) of all eu member states and administrative expenditure is a small part of it (less than 6%). countries pay their national contributions and collect their excise duties on behalf of the eu, and are at the same time beneficiaries of all eu policies and programmes. i support the draft budget proposal for 2016 as the resources provided should stimulate stronger economic growth and development, address the crisis and migration, improve student education and experience, and reduce unemployment through student programmes.
written. ‒ the wave of migration that has swept europe has long since assumed the characteristics of a genuine humanitarian and security disaster, and the mobilisation of the flexibility instrument at this point only confirms that we have met the crisis unprepared. unfortunately, this is just another proof that the commission is not thinking long term, but is making one mistake after another, which then costs european taxpayers dearly. the war in syria did not start yesterday, and refugees have been leaving that country for a very long time as well. it was clear from day one that turkey, lebanon and jordan could not take in millions of people forever and that if we did not stop the war, the columns would head for europe. i therefore strongly oppose such destructive measures to deal with the crisis, which, despite their apparent debacle, are persistently insisted upon.
written. - i support this decision because it is a substance that has been proven to be reproductively toxic. dehp is an endocrine disruptor used as a plasticizer, but it's time to ban it and replace it with less dangerous compounds. the commission also found that the dehp in pvc is used in a wide range of consumer products such as textiles, furniture and building materials. but because it's not chemically bound to plastic, it's easily released into the environment.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the european parliament resolution on the draft commission implementing decision on the authorisation of the use of di (2-ethylhexyl) phthalate (dehp) pursuant to regulation (ec) no 1907/2006 of the parliament and of the council as it requires the commission to withdraw the draft implementing decision. dehp is a highly toxic substance, which is banned under the reach regulation as it causes health problems to workers exposed to it during the recycling process. there are also concerns about its public health implications and there is no concrete data on the implementation of health risk control for workers, and i therefore support this resolution.
written. ‒ dehp is included in regulation (ec) no 1907/2006 (reach regulation) due to its classification as a category 1b reproductive toxicant. the commission is accountable to the european public when it comes to protecting citizens and the environment from hazardous chemicals. the draft commission implementing decision exceeds the powers provided for in the regulation and i therefore supported the objection of the member of the european parliament as i consider it to be well founded and that the commission should withdraw its draft implementing decision and submit to the committee a new draft rejection of the application for authorisation of the composition of recycled soft pvc containing dehp.
written. ‒ di (2-ethylhexyl) phthalate (dehp) as a category 1b reproductive toxicant is listed in the reach regulation precisely because of its reproductive toxic properties. the substance also poses a potential danger to human health because it accumulates in the body (it is bioaccumulative) and affects the endocrine system. pregnant women and young children are most vulnerable to the adverse effects of this compound. this compound has been used as a plastic softener in the manufacture of artificial christmas trees, tablecloths, floor tiles, shower curtains, garden hoses, rain clothes, dolls, toys, shoes, medical equipment (pipes, catheters, bags). the commission has also identified a number of potential sources of contamination, including the use of recycled plastic in the manufacture of certain products. i supported this resolution because i believe it is necessary to prevent the further authorisation of this substance. the commission will also assess the impact of the measures on the environment and the environmentally friendly use of chemicals.
written. ‒ i support the proposal to submit a new draft refusal of the application for authorisation of the composition of recycled soft pvc containing dehp in view of its harmful reproductive toxicity and endocrine disruption in some animals. in line with the underlying objectives of reach protection of human health and the environment, promotion of alternative methods for the assessment of the hazards of substances and enhancement of competitiveness and innovation given the widespread use of these substances in everyday use and consumption and since it has not been demonstrated that not granting an authorisation would result in social and economic costs, i support this proposal as necessary to protect the environment, people and wildlife.
written. ‒ i support the motion for a resolution tabled pursuant to rule 106 (2) and (3) of the rules of procedure on the draft commission implementing decision xxx on the authorisation of the use of di-di-2-ethylhexyl phthalate (dehp) pursuant to regulation (ec) no 1907/2006 of the european parliament and of the council by colleagues pawel poc, kateřina konečná and basa eickhouta. dehp is a substance for which there is unanimous agreement by member states that it has been identified as toxic for reproduction category 1b for its properties, as confirmed by mechanistic findings. there is also scientific evidence on the harmfulness of the substance and on the causal link between its action and adverse effects on human health. it is considered to be a very dangerous substance because it can cause irreversible effects on development and reproduction and harmful effects may occur later in life, even after a certain period of exposure. the opinion of the committee for socio-economic analysis shows that the report on which the application for authorisation was based contains significant deficiencies, including the absence of a health impact assessment to determine the residual risk. i agree with the objection of my colleague, as the adverse effects may affect the quality of life of european citizens and the environment, for which the eu institutions are responsible.
written. ‒ i support this report as the commission in its draft implementing decision on the designation of di- ((2-ethylhexyl) phthalate (dehp), dibutyl phthalate (dpb), benzyl butyl phthalate (bbp) and diisobutyl phthalate (dipb) as substances of very high concern under article 57 (f) of regulation (ec) no 1907/2006 of the european parliament and of the council seeks to designate dehp as a substance of very high concern. i further supported the proposal as the applicants have not demonstrated on the basis of the information available in the applications that the risks to the health of workers arising from the applications submitted are adequately controlled, in accordance with article 60 (2) of the reach regulation. the commission has also examined the application of the provisions of directive 91/414/eec to the additives in foodstuffs.
written. ‒ the scientific committee on toxicity, ecotoxicity and the environment regularly conducts research on hazardous substances in food and other products, with the aim of reducing the risk of disease. the risks to human health and the environment arising from the use of di (2-ethylhexyl) phthalate (dehp) should be considered as a priority in the periodic review of the list of restricted substances, as these high-risk substances have been identified as posing a particular risk to children. these toxic substances have been found in cosmetics, softeners for laundry, and children's toys. it is therefore proposed to gradually reduce the use of those products. in order to facilitate the transition and to mitigate possible socioeconomic consequences, an appropriate transitional period should be granted, during which economic operators should be allowed to apply for an exemption from the restriction of a substance, in accordance with article 5 of directive 2011/65/eu. i support the council's proposal to gradually reduce the use of high-risk substances in everyday products in order to protect human health and the environment.
written. ‒ i voted against the objection to the provision for the use of di- ((2-ethylhexyl) phthalate (dehp) because i consider that this objection is based on disproportionate, factually inaccurate data and that the implementation of this proposal would reduce the recycling of pvc even though it has been shown to be safe for use. the commission therefore concludes that the measures in question are not imputable to the state and that the measures in question are imputable to the state. the commission considers that the risk assessment of the risk assessment of the risk assessment of the risk assessment of the risk assessment of the risk assessment of the risk assessment of the risk assessment of the risk assessment of the risk assessment of the risk assessment of the risk assessment of the risk assessment of the risk assessment of the risk assessment of the risk assessment of the risk assessment of the risk assessment of the risk assessment of the risk assessment of the risk assessment of the risk assessment of the risk assessment of the risk assessment of the risk assessment of the risk assessment of the risk assessment of the risk assessment of the risk assessment of the risk assessment of the risk assessment of the risk assessment of the risk assessment of the risk assessment of the risk assessment of the risk assessment of the risk assessment of the risk assessment of the risk assessment of the risk assessment of the risk assessment of the risk assessment of the risk assessment of the risk assessment of the risk assessment of the risk assessment of the risk assessment of the risk assessment of the risk assessment of the risk assessment of the risk assessment of the risk assessment of the risk assessment of the risk assessment of the risk assessment of the risk assessment of the risk assessment of the risk assessment of the risk assessment of the risk assessment of the risk assessment of the risk assessment of the risk assessment of the risk assessment of the risk assessment of the risk assessment of the risk assessment of the risk assessment of the risk assessment of the risk moreover, the wider effects of not approving the use of dehp, such as the reduction of recycling and consequently the increase of environmental pollution, are not taken into account. the commission has not found any evidence that the measures in question are likely to have a significant impact on the union industry.
written. ‒ i support the report on taxation and other measures of a similar nature or effect. the commission shall be assisted by the standing committee on taxation and other measures similar in nature or effect. the commission also found that the contested tax rulings were not in line with the arm's length principle and that the commission had not provided any evidence that the contested tax rulings were not in line with the arm's length principle. there's a new tax justice program now. after almost ten months of investigations, findings and recommendations, it comes out with the aim of improving tax coordination and cooperation in the eu in the fight against aggressive tax planning.
written. ‒ i voted for the report on tax decisions and other measures similar in nature or effect because i believe that taxation models have changed and modernised, especially in today's era of globalisation and digitalisation of the economy. the report stresses the need to adopt a balanced and fair tax policy as an integral part of structural reform in the member states, which i fully agree with, as i believe that national and international tax rules should keep pace with the development of the business environment.
written. ‒ a consensus among member states is needed to reduce the scope for tax fraud. member states should apply internal tax laws complemented by tax treaties with union supervision. the commission should also be able to take into account the impact of the tax fraud on the tax base of the union. the prevention of tax evasion and tax avoidance requires cooperation between the tax authorities of the member states. accordingly, croatia provided the eu with the requested data in 2015. to address common challenges such as tax evasion among member states, a harmonised approach at eu level is increasingly needed. monitoring is needed to ensure that national tax policies are in line with eu policies. in this context, it is important to create specific safeguards to ensure that undertakings in one country do not have an unfair advantage over competitors in other countries and to ensure respect for the principles of non-discrimination and free movement in the single market. consequently, i have supported the report of representative elise ferreire and representative michael theurer.
written. ‒ the report on tax rulings and other measures of a similar nature or effect contains recommendations on acceptable tax practices and invites member states to introduce and adhere to them. although there is a developed tax culture, at least in the more developed member states of the union, there are cases of tax avoidance through the use of so-called 'creative accounting', leading to the problem of base erosion and profit shifting. it's something that needs to be fought vigorously. in croatia we have had problems with tax collection for many years, which has a significant impact on the national budget deficit, and this report is one of the steps to change this situation. i join the members of the special committee in calling on the member states to respect the principle of taxing profits where they are generated, because that is the only correct way. i am also in favour of transparency and public access to the financial statements of multinational corporations and believe in the imminent establishment of a common consolidated corporate income tax base. i also join the call on the commission to adopt new guidelines on state aid because we in croatia often encounter the problem of defining them and thus the (inability) of granting them. i consider this report to be a comprehensive picture of the current situation and a good guide to a fairer taxation system in the eu internal market and will therefore support it.
written. ‒ after ten months of investigation into tax procedures, new insights have emerged that could improve tax coordination and cooperation in the eu. the s&d group's commitment to transparency, the protection of citizens from harmful tax practices and the stronger sanctioning of those responsible for the same has contributed to the report's importance. we have particularly stressed the need to establish a common consolidated corporate tax base for the whole of the eu, and to introduce a mandatory and automatic exchange of information between member states on all valid tax rulings and procedures registered in the central directory, which has not been met with enthusiasm by some groups in the ep. we believe that a common european list of tax havens should be established on the basis of transparent, understandable, objectively verifiable and generally accepted indicators to which citizens should also have access. the need for adequate protection of whistleblowers and the creation of an independent body to collect information and conduct investigations is increasing, and we propose the creation of a joint european whistleblower fund. the eu does not have a quality legal framework that prescribes sanctions for companies, banks and financial advisers involved in illegal tax avoidance or aggressive tax planning practices, which is unacceptable, although some meps believe that 'degrees of shame' should be avoided. but the fight against tax fraud and embezzlement must be tackled decisively and radically.
written. ‒ it is estimated that €1 trillion of potential tax revenues are lost annually in the eu due to the combined effect of tax fraud, tax evasion and tax avoidance, and the global annual losses to national budgets caused by tax avoidance are estimated to be at least €50 billion. while each country has an interest in using its national legislation in combination with a network of tax treaties to promote itself as an investment country, i agree that consensus needs to be established among all member states because aggressive tax planning, harmful tax regimes and tax fraud invade fertile soil in a confused and non-cooperative environment. i believe that the fight against tax evasion and avoidance requires greater openness and closer cooperation between tax authorities and that the willingness of member states to provide the necessary information at the request of eu bodies is crucial. the commission has not received any comments from interested parties. the commission therefore concludes that the measures in question constitute state aid within the meaning of article 107 (1) of the treaty. developing countries, including croatia, therefore expect protection from the eu on this issue in order to achieve a level playing field when it comes to taxing their profits.
written. ‒ i support this report because it is important to keep companies in europe and to attract new ones, but this should not take the form of potentially harmful tax mechanisms. the commission should also be able to assess the impact of the measures on the union's financial markets, in particular on the financial markets, in order to assess the impact of the measures on the union's financial markets.
written. ‒ the luxleaks scandal has exposed confidential documents on more than 500 private tax agreements between the luxembourg tax administration and more than 300 multinational corporations between 2002 and 2010, and has revealed the extent to which secret agreements on complex financial structures aimed at drastic tax reductions were widespread. the commission also notes that luxopco's tax advisor, luxscs, has not provided any evidence that luxopco's tax advisor has been able to provide a reliable and accurate estimate of luxopco's taxable profit in the union. the commission stresses that these texts can only be considered as first steps in the right direction and that a coherent framework of legislative and administrative coordination is urgently needed in favour of smes as well as those multinational corporations that help to create real economic growth. since this proposal advocates equal rights for all those who pay their fair share of taxes, i give it my full support.
written. ‒ the taxe committee was established to examine the practices in applying for union state aid and the tax laws related to tax rulings and other similar measures. the commission notes that the contested tax ruling does not contain any reference to the tax system of luxembourg. i fully agree with the proposal that all member states should combat widespread problems of tax evasion and tax avoidance, however, unlike the rapporteur, i do not agree that this should be implemented at union level but strongly advocate the retention of national sovereignty in the segment of tax policy in the hands of individual member states of the union, as defined also in the basic treaty through the rule of unanimity in the council. the compromise reached in the committee is not balanced and infringes the principle of subsidiarity by advocating tax harmonization and some other proposals that cannot possibly have my support, such as a mandatory joint consolidated tax for multinational corporations, the definition of a minimum tax rate, a sharp criticism of the council's unanimity in tax matters, etc. that is why i abstained.
written. ‒ i support the report on countering radicalisation and the recruitment of european citizens into terrorist organisations. member states have core competences in combating the radicalisation of eu citizens. however, a common eu approach is needed for the measures to be effective. the aim of this report is to make recommendations for an eu strategy to prevent the radicalisation of european citizens. the increased pace of this phenomenon means that enforcement measures are no longer sufficient and it is recommended that a complementary strategy be adopted that is more based on prevention.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on countering radicalisation and the recruitment of european citizens by terrorist organisations, which comes to the plenary at a particularly sensitive time of dealing with the aftermath of the recent terrorist attack in paris and of facing new threats almost daily. the escalation of this process could have a devastating impact on the security of eu citizens and is contrary to european values. this large, dangerous and complex problem must be addressed by addressing the various aspects of its causes and manifestations. first of all, it should be emphasised that the causes of current terrorist radicalisation have not been sufficiently studied. it should also be emphasized that the causes of radicalization are not religion but the perverse misuse of religion, and the problem cannot be seen only as religious radicalization but there is also political radicalization. it is necessary to step up efforts and activate all aspects of cooperation between member states in the fight against terrorism, to better exchange information on terrorist radicalisation in europe, to strengthen cross-border cooperation between law enforcement authorities, to address radicalisation in prisons, terrorist radicalisation online, to strengthen the prevention of radicalisation through education and social inclusion, to highlight the responsibility and important role of religious communities in countering hate speech and terrorist propaganda, to deter terrorists from radicalisation, to prevent departures and to pay particular attention to the return of radicalised european citizens who have been adopted by terrorist organisations, to work towards de-radicalisation.
written. ‒ the increased frequency of terrorist attacks has highlighted the need to take counter-terrorism measures including countering the recruitment of eu citizens to terrorist organisations and countering radicalisation. radicalisation should not be associated with any ideology or faith because it can appear in any of them. the rise of terrorism has increased intolerance towards ethnic and religious communities in several european member states. human rights must be at the heart of the union's policies. a balance needs to be struck between public security and respect for fundamental rights. i therefore supported the report by mp rachida dati because the measures taken so far have proved ineffective in terms of the increased threat of terrorism. a new strategy for protection and prevention is needed, involving the cooperation of all member states as well as neighbouring countries.
written. ‒ according to data from 2012 to the end of 2014, about 250 citizens from our neighboring bosnia and herzegovina went to fight under the isil flag in syria and iraq, and 51 citizens returned. although since last year in bih there is a law in force according to which it is forbidden for citizens to go to the outside of the battlefield, so far none of the citizens of bih have suffered consequences for this. terrorism experts argue that isil should not be run by followers. all it takes is spreading propaganda, and it does so through the media, especially social media, while terrorist cells organize themselves. social networks have thus become a place for recruiting extremists and terrorists, for plotting crimes, for posting messages, and for spreading hatred. after the paris attacks, some groups reported that 900 accounts were deleted from twitter after a list of accounts linked to isil was released. it is necessary to raise awareness and prevent new members joining extremist groups through various campaigns. europe must act together through all possible mechanisms to prevent the further spread of extremism and radicalisation. internet companies are obliged to report and remove illegal content that promotes violent extremism.
written. ‒ i fully support the joint efforts of the member states to tackle the problem of radicalisation and recruitment of union citizens by terrorist organisations in an innovative way with this resolution. it is important to recognise that repressive measures are not enough, that is, that proactive and preventive action is needed. i would like to refer in particular to the part of the resolution that stresses the importance of education and social inclusion as a factor of integration and prevention of radicalisation. it is necessary to insist on a greater role for education in fostering critical thinking, promoting non-discrimination and tolerance, teaching the importance of human rights, and encouraging different forms of study and educational exchanges that expose young people to different religious, ethnic and other groups. for this reason, i regret that the programme of civic education in croatia has not been fully implemented as originally envisaged, since the principles set out in this resolution are precisely its foundation. i also think it is a very important part of the resolution to draw the attention of the member states to the importance of training religious leaders to engage in the dissemination of the principles of non-discrimination and tolerance, which are part of their moral teaching anyway.
written. ‒ given that the phenomenon of radicalisation and recruitment of european citizens is a global phenomenon, urgent action is needed, not only at local or european level but also at international level. i consider that an active exchange of views and information, in particular between national intelligence services, and the adoption of preventive programmes for security, counter-terrorism and deradicalization, are key to deterring the threats posed by terrorist groups. in this regard, cooperation with and support for the efforts of states in the middle east, north africa and the western balkans to stop the movement of foreign fighters is important. the commission should also be able to provide information on the number of persons who have been recruited by terrorist organisations, including on the number of persons who have been recruited by terrorist organisations, and on the number of persons who have been recruited by terrorist organisations. the commission should also be able to provide information on the implementation of the eu's anti-trafficking in human beings programme, including on the implementation of the eu's anti-trafficking in human beings programme. while the fight against terrorism is a responsibility of the member states, it should be stressed that terrorism should not be associated with any religion, nationality or civilization. in view of the above, i agree with the report by mrs dati, because a harmonised european approach is necessary to harmonise existing legislation in an area where there is free movement of european citizens.
written. ‒ i support this report because it reminds us that member states still have competence to combat the radicalisation of eu citizens. i also believe that a common approach to the eu is needed and that eu measures need to be effective in combating the threat of radicalisation of eu citizens who are free to move within the european union. an estimated 5,000 eu citizens are fighting for terrorist organisations in iraq and syria, and intelligence services warn of the great danger and challenge of their return to the eu. this report makes recommendations and an eu strategy to prevent the radicalisation and recruitment of eu citizens and presents a thorough analysis and proposals that prevent recruitment via the internet. the report suggests measures to be taken primarily through education and awareness-raising campaigns, a warning mechanism and support to families.
written. ‒ more than 5 000 european citizens have joined terrorist organisations and other military units, in particular isis. accordingly, the objective of this proposal is to invite the commission to establish as soon as possible an action plan for the implementation and evaluation of the eu strategy to combat radicalisation and terrorist recruitment. this can be done by exchanging best practices and pooling expertise within the european union, by assessing measures taken by member states and by cooperating with third countries and international organisations, on the basis of full respect for international human rights conventions. the commission should also be able to provide information on the number of cases of terrorist offences in the member states, including on the number of cases of serious crime. the key elements in the fight against recruitment are disrupting terrorist networks, encouraging the exchange of good practices on de-radicalisation, strengthening the link between the eu's internal and external security, and better sharing of information on terrorist radicalisation in europe. i fully support this proposal because its objective is the safety of citizens and therefore all the measures mentioned above should be taken to achieve this objective.
written. ‒ i supported the report proposing solutions to cross-border and eu-level problems of countering radicalisation and recruitment of european citizens into terrorist organisations. the recent terrorist attacks in paris have clearly demonstrated the need for better cooperation between the member states of the european union, but also other bodies such as europol, cepol and eurojust, in preventing and detecting the radicalisation of european citizens. i believe that this attack fully confirms the assumption that european citizens who have gone to train in syria are returning to europe in large numbers with the aim of carrying out terrorist attacks. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the eu's new rules on the protection of personal data, in particular the rules on the protection of personal data and the rules on the protection of personal data. similarly, i believe that we should not only focus on preventing the return of radicalised citizens to europe, but we should stop their recruitment and radicalisation at the outset, and this could be achieved by implementing the recommended strategies for preventing radicalisation in prisons and by preventing it through education and social inclusion, as well as by curbing the spread of radicalisation propaganda material on the internet.
written. ‒ as rapporteur at the femm, i am satisfied with the extent to which my report has been adopted. it is important to highlight the specific risks at work because of their physical and social diversity. i'm sorry that the part of my report that deals with maternity leave was not adopted, but i'm pleased to see that musculoskeletal disorders, stress, sexual harassment are being taken into account. i also stressed the need to set maximum levels of toxins in the workplace at eu level.
written. ‒ i voted for the report on the eu strategic framework on health and safety at work 2014-2020 because it brings many needed changes in this area. i believe that every employee has the right to the highest quality of health and safety at work, regardless of the country or company, and the type of work. the commission has also been asked to provide a report on the implementation of the new health and safety legislation in the member states.
written. ‒ i supported the report by mr christensen because i believe that every employee has the right to health protection at work, which is one of the fundamental human rights. the eu framework strategy on health and safety at work should aim to improve the prevention of work-related diseases, facilitate access to the workplace and to adapted workplaces for people with disabilities and chronic diseases. attention should also be paid to the impact of workplace conditions on psychosocial health. i believe that the working conditions in the member states are not yet uniform and that it is necessary to insist on their uniformity.
written. ‒ recent crises in the agricultural sector, disruptions caused by political crises, but also other known problems in the agricultural sector, in croatia, and other eu member states, are leading to a decrease in the number of family farms, leading to a significant depopulation of rural areas. the commission considers that the aid is necessary to ensure that the beneficiaries of the aid are able to benefit from the aid in question. women in rural areas are particularly exposed to these negative trends as they have more difficulty in exercising their labour and health rights. they are often denied basic health care and access to specialist screening for early detection of cancer. i welcome this report precisely because it recognises the need to protect workers' rights and equal access to public health services for all its citizens, regardless of where they live and work. the report shall also take particular account of the situation of women in rural areas and other vulnerable groups of citizens who need to be provided with adequate protection at work and access to emergency medical care in the event of an accident at work.
written. ‒ the drastic changes in the modern world of work also have negative consequences for workers in terms of new health and safety threats. the main objective is to ensure a safe and healthy working environment for all workers throughout their working lives, which is not only a fundamental human right but also has a positive economic impact in terms of labour productivity. it is therefore particularly important that the s&d group has fought to insist on stricter controls and concrete measures in the form of binding targets, worker controls and social dialogue at the workplace in the area of workers' health and safety. the main threats to be addressed include carcinogens and mutagens to which workers are exposed, asbestos exposure, but increasingly also psychological and psychosocial factors such as stress related to precarious work and violence against women at work. i am pleased that croatia has also been active in addressing problems such as administrative undercapacity, regulatory inconsistencies and inadequate monitoring and analytics in the last few years, but there is still work to be done on better health and safety supervision, which is one of the more important objectives of this european framework.
written. ‒ human resources are the backbone of the european union's development, and the health and safety of workers is a fundamental prerequisite for the sustainable development of the european union. in view of the above, there is no doubt that research is needed that clearly reveals the causes of such health problems as mental problems, musculoskeletal disorders, the development of specific cancers, and the consequences of excessive working hours. the commission shall be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 290 concerning the establishment of a european agency for the operational management of large-scale it systems in the area of freedom, security and justice (the 'european agency for the management of operational cooperation at the external borders of the member states'). according to the ombudsman's research on gender underrepresentation in croatia, the data suggests that croatia is moving within some eu average framework, which is often used as an excuse. given that under-representation cannot be fully explained by structural barriers, the disadvantage to women is clear. it is therefore necessary to prevent such behaviour and harassment, whether sexual or otherwise, by all possible legislative frameworks. in this regard, the eu must ensure sufficient financial and human resources and set clear targets and indicators to meet its health and safety obligations, with a focus on a strong gender perspective and equal access to public health services, especially in rural areas.
written. ‒ i support this report because, as the committee has stressed, i believe that all workers have the right to a high level of protection at work and also the right to a high level of health care. i welcome the commission's framework for action on health and safety at work 2014-2020 and stress the need for clear legislation with concrete measures. i also support the report because health and safety at work is a fundamental social interest and an investment that has a positive impact on the productivity and competitiveness of societies and also improves the sustainability of the social security system and allows people to work healthy until the statutory retirement age. work-related accidents and occupational diseases are a major burden on society, and improvements in occupational health and safety across europe can contribute to the economic recovery and the achievement of the europe 2020 targets.
written. ‒ the aim of this strategy is to highlight the importance and interconnectedness of health and safety at the workplace. since it is not uncommon for the working day to last more than 8 hours, it is necessary to ensure good working conditions that will also protect the physical and mental health of each individual. all employees, including those in the public sector, have the right to the highest level of occupational health and safety to be guaranteed regardless of the size of the undertaking, the type of job, the basic contract or the member state of employment. health and safety at work are fundamental societal interests and investments that have a positive impact on the productivity and competitiveness of societies and also improve the sustainability of social security systems and enable people to work health to a statutory retirement pension. i fully support the above strategies aimed at improving health and safety at work and stress the need for specific measures to neutralise the effects of the crisis by helping companies seeking to improve safety and health at work.
‒ the european commission has developed a multiannual action strategy which identifies priorities and common objectives in the area of health and safety legislation, while seeking to establish a framework for coordinating national policies. the latest strategy covers the period 2014-2020 and represents the commission's attempt to advance union legislation in that segment within the refit programme, currently amounting to the simultaneous revision of 22 legislative acts. while i support certain parts of the report that go towards supporting smes, simplification and the exchange of good practice, i am concerned about the proposals that focus on prevention rather than risk management; the unfounded calls for increased resources based on the definitions of the international labour organisation; the calls for the commission to develop and implement a programme for the systematic monitoring of psychosocial risks; the call for legislation on harassment at work and on musculoskeletal disorders, etc. the commission has also taken into account the fact that the commission has not yet adopted a decision on the compatibility of the aid with the internal market.
mr. president, the fact is that important conclusions have been reached in valletta and also in antalya. the very fact that the heads of state and government were there, speaking, and the evidence is, that these two summits were very important. action plans are important, but if they don't get implemented, i'm afraid not much will be done. i want to believe that the member states will understand that all international decisions that are made, it is important that they implement them at the national level. otherwise, it's just a dead letter on a piece of paper. we all know that migration is a shared responsibility, not just of the countries of origin but also of the countries of transit and of the countries of destination. it's good that valletti has given maximum consideration to our african partners. also, the two key issues that ms mogherini mentioned earlier are how we are spending resources, or development money, and also how we are managing the migration crises. we in the european union must be able to answer these two questions correctly. it's also good that the g20 has addressed all issues, from terrorism to refugees to the economy and social inequality to climate change. these are truly the questions of our generation and future generations. this crisis is a crisis of a truly massive scale and we must deal with its course and its consequences. we share common values, we want to share them further and we want to believe that human life is at the heart of our values. however, we hear these days, and in your discussions, about terrorism and migration and their causal connection. i don't want to believe that they're connected, but we also shouldn't rule out the possibility that some people have used the refugee wave for their own terrorist purposes. so i think this is a sociological issue, given that most of the perpetrators were born in western europe. we need to take this seriously. we had a discussion this morning about radicalization in western europe, the european union, so it's time to get serious about integration and identity crisis.
mr president, mr commissioner, the partnership for (responsible) development aid for the benefit of the young, a lot of political messages, announcements of action and financial plans. this is the shortest way to summarise what was agreed in valletta, alongside the standard discussions on the preservation of the external borders of the european union and the schengen system. the malta summit is the third summit in the last three months devoted to migration, so it is a good time to ask ourselves how far we have come with the implementation of the conclusions that were adopted earlier. for example, instead of frontex on the land borders within the union, we are seeing new kilometres of wire that some members are putting around other members like my country croatia. it is good that the leaders of the european union and african countries have sat down at the same table and agreed on new measures, because effective border controls while protecting people's dignity can best be achieved through trust and cooperation. it is high time that we implemented these measures to our mutual benefit, with the primary objective of protecting the most vulnerable, whose journey across the mediterranean too often ends tragically.
mr. president, i welcome the joint conclusions and action plan adopted by la valletti. now we're looking at the implementation. the european union, the member states, must meet the financial commitments regarding development assistance and contributions to the african fund. but on the other hand, partners in africa also need to take their share of responsibility and start addressing the causes of poverty, wars and instability, and mass migration. the causes are serious human rights violations, autocracy, political persecution, lack of rule of law, endemic corruption. so i think we shouldn't be so afraid of a clearer definition of the conditionality of development cooperation. the second question that needs to be better answered is the effectiveness of our development cooperation. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the eu's external action programmes, including the implementation of the european union's external action programmes. with limited resources, it's important to get value for the money that's being invested. finally, it is important to take into account the recommendations of the european parliament. a few weeks ago, all the political groups within the development committee reached a consensus and sent a recommendation to the european development fund committee, chaired by the commission, to reject the adoption of the draft national development cooperation programme with eritrea. but despite our recommendation, at the european development fund committee meeting last week, the said programme was unanimously adopted. we must avoid such situations in the future if we are to be effective in development cooperation and foreign policy.
mr president, i am pleased that the representatives of the european states are concerned about the human rights of migrants and respect for their dignity, because we should be good hosts to those we have chosen to receive. but i cannot help but notice that the priorities of europe's leaders are completely upside down. namely, the political representatives of the member states and all of us here in this house are not elected by refugees and migrants, but by full citizens of european states. so i can't agree with some of the conclusions that our top priorities are tied to migrants. the top priorities of all european politicians at all levels of government must be the security and prosperity of our citizens, and everything else follows. following the recent terrorist attacks and hostage crisis in france and the police raids in brussels, our primary task is to respond to the many questions and concerns of citizens rather than ignore their growing dissatisfaction with the policies europe is pursuing.
mr. president, the real question is what is ahead of us? what will happen in the months and years ahead? is the instability and uncertainty that we have right now around us something that will last for years? what is our answer to that? have la valletta and antalya really provided any answer to this situation we find ourselves in today? i think the results are relatively modest. of course i support the deal. of course i support dialogue because there is no alternative to dialogue. the only alternative is war, and of course we don't want war anywhere. some say there are great wars coming. our allies and the people we support are speaking out. so i am sure that we must continue our policy of cooperation with african countries, but we must also, as the european union, do everything to get the great powers, first of all the united states and russia, to start acting together, because otherwise we will face even greater challenges than we have today.
mr. president, when we last spoke about burundi in april, we all made it clear that we should prevent a third candidacy of president nkurunziza, but that did not happen. what's going to happen next? of course there will be blatant human rights violations, persecution of ngos, all human rights activists, murders, some are already talking about genocide. can we really co-finance a regime that sends us refugees? we have double funding for burundi - i think that's definitely unacceptable and i agree with those who say that we need to give clear sanctions to such a regime and do everything to be with those who need it most, to help them at any time whenever we can.
mr president, georgia is a priority for the eu in its neighbourhood policy and has demonstrated its commitment and commitment to implementing pro-european reforms. since the 2003 rose revolution, the country has undergone a major transformation from a post-soviet state under russian influence to a state that clearly represents its interests and european orientation. most of the change has come, unfortunately, at the high cost of the economic and energy blockade from russia and the armed conflicts in south ossetia and abkhazia. the association agreement and the free trade agreement will provide georgia with the necessary guidance to implement the necessary reforms. however, recent events related to the proceedings against the television station rustaveli 2 and the pressure on the opposition are worrying. i was part of the foreign affairs committee delegation this july when we visited georgia and drew attention to the phenomenon of politically selective justice and visited several prisoners from the former opposition, respectively the government. there is also a worrying situation relating to this election year where media freedoms must come into full focus and ensure an equal campaign. so i want georgia, a friendly country to my croatia, to use all the potentials it has. we heard the foreign minister and the deputy prime minister, the minister of justice a few days ago in the foreign affairs committee. we hope that the reforms they want to implement and the political culture dialogue will go ahead and that the association agreement and the free trade agreement, and in particular the upcoming decision on visa liberalisation, will hopefully help georgia on its european path and accelerate its momentum and become one of the leading countries of the eastern partnership.
mr president, although the moldovan people have expressed their ambition to move closer to the eu, a series of recent corruption scandals and a lack of reforms have set them off on the european path. we have supported moldova in terms of substantial reforms and financial support, but the situation is unacceptable today because the political elites have brought the country to the brink of collapse, and under the european banner politicians continue to apply the same style of post-soviet politics. as a result of the de facto privatisation of the state by the oligarchs, moldova is the poorest country in europe and there is a strong need for the de-oligarchisation of politics and government institutions. i believe that the priorities of moldova's eu accession programme, the fight against corruption, judicial reform, economic transition are exactly the right priorities that would be supported by the majority of the moldovan people. in this respect, i believe that we in the european parliament must call on the pro-european political elites, and i particularly welcome today the efforts of our committee chairman, mr brok, and of my colleague mr auštrivičius and mr cristee, to organise all the reformist forces, to change the atmosphere and to take the path outlined in the association agreement. maybe we could form a similar group to support moldova, like we currently have for ukraine. i consider that the extension of the mandate of the eu border support mission to moldova and ukraine, eubam, is a very concrete and good move for moldova. in this respect, the situation in transnistria is important for the overall stability of the country and its european path, and we will do everything to put it back on the right european track.
member of the commission.– mr president, i am extremely pleased that we are discussing this point today, and i would like to thank linda mcavan very much for her support as chair of the committee on development (deve). i strongly believe that education for children in emergency and conflict situations is paramount. it is the most powerful tool we have to protect children and to ensure that they can have a better future – a secure future. education in emergencies is a top priority for the commission and for me personally. i know that it is a top priority for this parliament, as linda has already mentioned in a very strong way. your actions speak loud. we are together in this and i am truly grateful for your support. thank you so much again. we all agree: education is the foundation for everything else. it is the strongest shield for vulnerable children, protecting them from radicalisation, protecting them against forced recruitment, protecting them from falling prey to terrorist and other extremist groups, protecting them also from forced marriages, from taking dangerous migration routes. education is therefore a primary need. i have seen it on the ground during my field visits in emergency and conflict areas and most recently in refugee camps in jordan and lebanon, and at the borders with syria. my point is crystal clear: these people do not need aid only to meet their basic needs. they do not need just food and shelter. they also need dignity. they need hope and a real future for their children. as you rightly stress in your resolution, less than 2% of global humanitarian budgets goes to education, at a time when the number of 60 million refugees and internally displaced persons (idps) is unprecedented. today more than 34 million children are out of school due to humanitarian crises: 34 million children! this must change. we cannot continue with business as usual. new approaches are needed, definitely. education is not a secondary issue, to be dealt with only in the second phase of an emergency, because education, by protecting children, also strengthens security, and it addresses one of the main causes of migration. parents and children are not fleeing their homes just to get food and shelter. they are leaving because they also want access to education. in the last few years we have increased our allocation from the eu humanitarian budget to this sector. from the symbolic eur 2 million in 2012, we reached this year eur 11 million. this is roughly 1% of our humanitarian aid budget. now we have to do more: much more. earlier this year i committed to tripling this allocation in 2016 and reaching the un target of 4% by 2019. i am really pleased and proud to announce today, in this chamber, that i will reach the 4% target already from next year. this achievement is not my achievement; it belongs to you as well, because we could not reach the target without your strong support and without your proposal to allocate an additional eur 26 million, as linda mentioned, from the eu budget for this specific purpose. sincerely speaking, your leadership and your actions have made a real difference. thank you again for that. i am grateful for your crucial help to secure the necessary funds. let me reassure you from my experience on the ground. every euro invested in education and emergencies, is an investment for peace. i am working together with my colleagues johannes hahn and neven mimica, who are doing a great job in this field to meet this challenge, to make sure that children in emergency and conflict situations can benefit from projects in education, as we know through the madad fund in lebanon, jordan, turkey and the western balkan corridors and in the other trust fund for africa, and of course by establishing formal and informal schools through our experienced implementing partners on the ground. this is very important. all of you know very well the real impact of the informal schools, in particular in the bekaa valley. we have a collective responsibility to give every child a bright future. this is crucial. let us renew our collective commitment: no more lost generations of children.
mr. president, 37 million children living in conflict-affected areas are not in school. if we take the average conflict to be about 10 years, and children and their families to be about 17 years in exile, then we could say that's an entire lost generation. and we often say that education is the passport to a better future. so what is the future for these children and what is the future for their countries? children can't wait for wars and crises to end. if we don't get the book into their hands right now, someone else will. education is not only a fundamental right of every child regardless of circumstances, but it is also the most effective means of promoting peace, prosperity and stability and thus one of the most important investments. the epp group therefore prioritised the education of children in emergencies and long-term crises in its humanitarian aid portfolio. on behalf of the club, i commend the efforts of commissioner stylianides who has consistently advocated for increased funding for this area. the eu's children of peace initiative will benefit as many as 1.5 million children by the end of the year, as a result of educational projects in 26 countries. so i welcome this resolution, i welcome the leadership shown by the chair of the committee on development, linda mcavan, and of course i welcome the decision on an additional budget of eur 26 million for the education of children in crisis.
madam president, i would like to welcome the commissioner, my fellow rapporteurs. what is very important to note in this court report, and i thank my colleagues at the court and the president for this, is that a large part of the irregularities stem from the lack of controls and the poorly developed financial management system, as well as from a large number of different procedures and rules for which further interpretation is needed. it's actually a call to all of us, a call to the european commission and a call to the member states that we have to work on strengthening administrative capacity, on implementing financial management systems at all levels. so we need to focus on clearly defining objectives, on clearly defining rules and procedures that will be simpler for end users and for the whole administration so that the number of irregularities is less.
madam president, the principle that has been put forward here today, namely that we should spend money in line with our long-term objectives, is the only correct principle, and cohesion policy in this context is one of our principles, long-term objectives, namely creating opportunities for stability, tackling the problem of unemployment, developing certain less developed parts of our countries. in some countries, structural funds are the largest investment. the money that comes from these funds is the most helpful to the development of these countries. and here we come to the situation that you have stated, which is that we need simplification of regulations. it is necessary, not to improve statistical performance, but to absorb the resources at our disposal, which we so badly need, especially in some countries in the east and south of the european union.
for the ppe group. madam president, i want to join my speakers in pointing out the fact that we have recently spoken about the situation in cambodia here in the plenary of this parliament, we have pointed out that laws are being passed in cambodia that are persecuting the non-profit sector, that are contrary to civil society and that de facto make it impossible to establish non-profit, non-governmental and trade union organisations. however, our resolution against cambodia was not taken into account by the cambodian government and yet these laws were passed. it is good to say that our resolution unfortunately does not take into account cambodia, although we are cambodia's main partner, it was said here, we will provide several hundred million euros for the development of this country in the coming years. i therefore think, and this is my call and plea to the commission representative, that the commission should consider how much we are willing to give cambodia in terms of support at a time when our words about democracy and the rule of law are not being taken into account.
madam president, the european union will provide development assistance to cambodia for the period 2014-2020 amounting to eur 410 million. the result of this aid is that we still have a repressive regime that violates human rights, that has brought cambodia to the brink of poverty, and perhaps one of the poorest countries in the world. the social, economic and political situation is repressive and i am convinced that we must act in this context. that is why i support this resolution in the belief that by doing so we send a clear signal to the democratic forces in cambodia, and especially to the non-governmental sector in cambodia, which we should continue to support and try to help as much as possible, we send a clear signal that we are not satisfied with the current situation and that we are seeking change in that country when we talk about ngos, trade unions and the opposition.
mr. president, we need a secular bangladesh. we need to support the government in the intention of bangladesh to remain a secular state, because we see what radicalization of the political scenes in different states or in states that are disintegrating before our eyes means. we need that part of the world to be spared the radical measures proposed by the members of the islamic state and others who don't believe in democracy and freedom. however, what should also be emphasized is, and here i support all those who say that the european commission in negotiations with bangladesh should put on the table the issue of freedom of expression of the press, opposition, trade unions and all the things that we practically do not have in bangladesh today, because in practice these freedoms practically do not exist. we are the eu's biggest partner in many respects, and we have the right to ask the government of bangladesh to do so.
written. ‒ i support the doha development plan statement on the state of play ahead of the 10th wto ministerial conference. the doha development agenda was launched in 2001 with the objectives of creating new trade opportunities, strengthening multilateral trade rules and addressing current imbalances, leading to fair and free trade and economic development across continents and poverty reduction. the results of the 9th ministerial conference in 2013 are therefore of systemic importance for the organisation.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution on the state of play of the doha development agenda ahead of the 10th wto ministerial conference because it encourages the creation of new trade opportunities and strengthens multilateral trade rules. the parties agree to cooperate in the implementation of the agreement by means of a dialogue with the wto, including through the wto dispute settlement body (dsb). bilateral, regional and plurilateral agreements can stimulate the opening up of trade and economic development, and i therefore support this motion for a resolution and the work in all the sectors mentioned in it.
written. ‒ the doha negotiations were launched in 2001 to find new trade opportunities and address imbalances in the trading system, with a focus on developing and underdeveloped countries. in order to open up new markets, it is necessary to take account of the sensitivity of certain sectors, in particular agriculture, whose reform represents the european union's contribution to the expectations of the doha round. trade liberalisation is an important tool for ensuring sustainable economic growth and development, but it needs to be complemented by appropriate accompanying policies covering macroeconomic and microeconomic measures. the wto members are invited to ratify and implement the trade facilitation agreement, with a view to its entry into force before the 10th ministerial conference. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's macro-financial assistance to developing countries in order to ensure that the union's macro-financial assistance is consistent with the union's macro-financial assistance. i supported the european parliament resolution because i believe that a multilateral system based on fairer and more equitable rules can contribute to fair and free trade.
written. ‒ the negotiations launched in doha in 2001 have opened up new opportunities to strengthen multilateral trade rules and address current imbalances in the trading system. as i consider the doha development agenda to be a positive and necessary step forward, i support the draft motion for a resolution on the state of play of the doha development agenda in the run-up to the tenth ministerial conference of the world trade organisation. the main objective was to establish a fairer and more equitable trading system that would contribute to fair and free trade, while also stimulating the economic development of all continents. it is now more necessary than ever to insist on concluding the long-running doha round negotiations in order to realise its development mandate. i believe that the european union must continue to take the lead in promoting progress in the current wto negotiations, with a view to the full conclusion of the doha round. i support the announced structural reform of the wto because it would take into account the needs and interests of developing and least developed countries, but also of small and medium-sized enterprises. the wto member states should also be encouraged to strengthen their links with other organisations which are in any way connected with global trade and whose work may affect the course of the negotiations.
written. ‒ in negotiating wto reform, it is important to take full account of the special needs and interests of low-income developing countries and least developed countries. the wto should also be able to provide for the possibility of a review of the wto agreement on trade-related aspects of intellectual property rights (trips) in order to ensure that the wto agreement is fully implemented. the significant provisions of special and differential treatment should be more precise and targeted and should be periodically reviewed to respond to the needs of those developing countries and least developed countries that are most in need of assistance. i join in praising the example of the trade facilitation agreement in terms of the application of the principle of special and differential treatment in the implementation phases, which could be useful in reviewing and guiding the provisions of special and differential treatment. in this process, the european union should champion the enduring value of multilateralism and call for a trade agenda based on free and fair trade that benefits all and is development-oriented at its core.
written. ‒ i believe it is important to take a holistic approach to the specific needs and interests of the least developed countries and to set new criteria in the definition of poor and developing countries, as is needed in the case of china. i support structural reforms of the world trade organisation to guarantee open, fair and non-discriminatory trade that better meets the interests of different market participants such as smes, micro and small enterprises and start-ups. in this context, i am in favour of the speedy ratification and implementation of the trade facilitation agreement (tfa) before the ministerial conference (mc10). at the same time, i commend the progress made in fulfilling multilateral initiatives such as the environmental goods agreement (ega), the information technology agreement (ita) and the trade in services agreement (tisa). i stress that for croatia, my country of origin, as a member of the wto, the forthcoming accession of bosnia and herzegovina is also very important, and i fully support it.
written. ‒ i supported the motion for a resolution because i believe that trade liberalisation is an important tool for ensuring sustainable economic growth and development, but that it needs to be complemented by appropriate accompanying policies covering macroeconomic and microeconomic measures, including budgetary transparency, fiscal policy and tax uniformity, simplification of administration, education and training, institutional reforms and social policies, all with a view to maximising and better sharing the benefits of trade reforms and effectively mitigating negative impacts. conscious of the value of multilateralism, i hereby call for a trade agenda based on free and fair trade, which would benefit everyone and which would be development-oriented at its core.
the doha round was launched in 2001 to create new trading opportunities, strengthen multilateral trade rules and address current imbalances in the trading system. the union's macro-financial assistance shall be implemented in accordance with the principles of sound financial management and sound prudential supervision. the 10th ministerial conference of the world trade organization (mc10) to be held in kenya will be the first wto ministerial conference in an african country. the european union remains firmly committed to the doha development agenda and reaffirms that reaching a political agreement on the progress of the development agenda will be of great importance and would thus ensure that the wto's negotiating role remains at the heart of further trade liberalisation at the global level. i support this doha development plan because it calls for a trade agenda based on free and fair trade. trade liberalisation is an important tool for ensuring sustainable economic growth and development.
written. ‒ i supported the report which stresses the importance of free and fair trade by creating new trade opportunities and strengthening multilateral trade rules with the aim of economic development of all continents and poverty alleviation. i think that the need to make it easier for the least developed countries to participate fully in global trade, that is to say the importance of taking into account the special needs and interests of low-income developing countries and the least developed countries, is rightly recognised here. the commission has also taken into account the fact that the union's trade defence policy is not only a matter of the union's external relations, but also of the union's external relations. while the chances of reaching a final agreement on the doha agenda by the 10th wto ministerial conference are slim, i believe that further work is needed to achieve the goals set and to implement related initiatives such as the green goods agreement and the information technology agreement.
written. ‒ i support this declaration on the accession of ecuador to the trade agreement between the eu and colombia and peru. this agreement will stimulate and expand trade and investment between both signatories to the agreement. i also call for the implementation of the action plan on social rights and environmental rights in line with those already agreed.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the european parliament resolution on ecuador's accession to the trade agreement concluded between the eu and its member states and colombia and peru because it strengthens eu cooperation with the andean countries and thus contributes to ecuador's export activities to the eu. it is important that the agreement guarantees and promotes respect for human rights and democratic principles and that the ecuadorian authorities establish an enhanced dialogue with civil society. i also find it extremely positive that the contracting parties, among other things, commit themselves to conserving biological diversity and that environmental protection programmes are encouraged, and i therefore support this report.
written. ‒ ecuador's accession to the eu-colombia-peru trade agreement has a positive impact on the expansion of trade and investment. it also contributes to alleviating poverty and reducing inequality. the government of ecuador is invited to implement action plans to ensure the protection of the rights of citizens, especially women and children. ecuador has experienced economic growth in recent years. and this is backed up by the fact that the government has invested over 40 billion dollars in the social sector in the last eight years, and poverty has been reduced. along with colombia and peru, ecuador is one of the world's leading producers of bananas. the importance of the joint sub-committee on trade and sustainable development as the sole mechanism envisaged to monitor the implementation of the sustainable development commitments was underlined. i supported ecuador's accession to the agreement because i believe that it will have a positive impact on economic growth and the continuation of a better social policy.
written. ‒ i support the commission's statement on the accession of ecuador to the trade agreement between the european union and the republic of peru and the republic of colombia. ecuador's accession to the trade agreement is another step in forging alliances with countries that are important partners for us in all segments of cooperation and development. ecuador is a developing country with significant economic growth. the european union and ecuador have a lot of mutual benefits, not only in the exchange of goods between each other, but also in creating a stable environment for economic operators, enhancing competitiveness, technology transfer and innovation. economic growth must not be at the expense of the environment and civil society, but must be sustainable. ecuador is rich in biodiversity, being one of the 17 most diverse countries in the world, and it has the highest concentration of plant and animal species, between 5% and 10% of the world's biodiversity. many sensitive areas, such as the amazon, the galapagos islands, and yasuni national park, are home to numerous native species as well as indigenous tribes. it is therefore necessary to make joint efforts to conserve the environment and biodiversity, not only for the mutual benefit but also for the benefit of humanity.
written. ‒ the ecuadorian economy has achieved strong growth in the past few years and, more importantly, inclusive economic growth that has directly reduced poverty, especially extreme poverty and inequality, and strengthened the middle class. it is worth noting that according to the latest world bank data, poverty in ecuador fell from 37.6% to 22.5% between 2006 and 2014, while extreme poverty decreased from 16.9% to 7.7%, thanks in part to the ecuadorian government's investment of more than $40 billion in the social sector over the past eight years. the european union should continue to encourage ecuador to pursue its successful policy of progressive social and sustainable development. the commission will continue to support the development of the union's trade policy in the context of the wto negotiations, including through the establishment of a wto-wide trade regime. i look forward to the rapid and comprehensive entry into force and implementation of that agreement, which will guarantee the highest level of protection for citizens and the environment, stimulate and diversify trade and investment on both sides, and act as an important driver of economic and social development and contribute to further alleviating poverty and reducing inequalities in ecuador.
written. ‒ i support the motion for a resolution on the accession of ecuador to the eu-colombia-peru trade agreement. the agreements with colombia and peru are good agreements, and the accession of ecuador allows the european union to form alliances with important countries and regions with a similar worldview and rapid growth. although this is the accession of a new country to an existing agreement, i consider it justified to apply to ecuador the adapted conditions due to the significant differences that exist in the field of economy and economy. the agreement will be applied in full in all the countries of the region, including the republic of south africa, the republic of indonesia, the republic of korea, the republic of korea, the republic of korea, the republic of korea, the republic of korea, the republic of korea, the republic of korea, the republic of korea, the republic of korea, the republic of korea, the republic of korea, the republic of korea, the republic of korea, the republic of korea, the republic of korea, the republic of korea, the republic of korea, the republic of korea, the republic of korea, the republic of korea, the republic of korea, the republic of korea, the republic of korea, the republic of korea, the republic of korea, the republic of korea, the republic of korea, the republic of korea, the republic of korea, the republic of korea, the republic of korea, the republic of korea, the republic of korea, the republic of korea, the republic of korea, the republic of korea, the republic of korea, the republic of korea, the republic of korea, the republic of korea, the republic of korea, the republic of korea, the republic of korea, the republic of korea, the republic of korea, the republic of korea, the republic of korea, the philippines, the republic of korea, the philippines, the republic of korea, the philippines, the philippines, the philippines, the philippines, the philippines, the philippines, the philippines, the philippines, the philippines, the philippines, the philippines, the philippines, the philippines, the it should also be noted that there is progress in development, which is seen in the reduction of poverty and inequality and the growth of the middle class. the european parliament therefore encourages the government of ecuador to implement the action plans submitted by colombia and peru and to adopt similar measures as an opportunity to improve the general living conditions of citizens, including human and labour rights and the environment. i believe that ecuador's accession to the trade agreement will be beneficial to all parties involved, as it will allow the opening of new trade routes. it also deepens the relationship and establishes economic cooperation between the countries.
written. ‒ i support this motion for a resolution because ecuador's accession to the trade agreement with colombia and peru represents an important step in trade relations. this resolution will encourage ecuador to take the steps that colombia and peru have taken to boost the economy and improve the general standard of living of its people, including human rights, labor rights and the environment. this resolution should encourage other countries in the region to make additional efforts to achieve this goal, i.e. a trade agreement that is an opportunity to improve the living standards of their populations.
written. ‒ ecuador's accession to the trade agreement with colombia and peru is another decisive step towards forging alliances with important countries and regions of a similar worldview and rapid growth. the european union is committed to the development of a comprehensive and effective policy on the environment and sustainable development, and to the promotion of sustainable development in the context of the global climate change challenge. economic growth in ecuador has been positive, directly reducing poverty and inequality and increasing the middle class. ecuador is one of the world's leading producers of bananas, along with colombia and peru. the andean governments are to take all necessary and technical measures to establish a trade agreement and all partners are invited to guarantee respect for all social and political rights. i encourage the council to establish a joint sub-committee on trade and sustainable development as the sole mechanism provided for under the trade agreement to monitor the implementation of the commitments on sustainable economic development.
written. ‒ i supported ecuador's accession to the trade agreement concluded between the eu and its member states and colombia and peru because i believe that the accession of a country like ecuador will increase the european union's international trade gains. the commission notes that the spanish authorities have not provided any evidence that the spanish authorities have taken the necessary measures to ensure that the spanish authorities have not provided any evidence that the spanish authorities have taken the necessary measures to ensure that the spanish authorities have not provided any evidence that the spanish authorities have taken the necessary measures to ensure that the spanish authorities have not provided any evidence that the spanish authorities have not taken the necessary measures to ensure that the spanish authorities have not provided any evidence that the spanish authorities have not taken the necessary measures to ensure that the spanish authorities have complied with the conditions of article 108 (3) tfeu. but i find it particularly positive that this resolution, in addition to focusing on the current economic and social situation in the country, also looks at many problems in ecuador such as intensive deforestation and the decline of biodiversity. supporting ecuador in its efforts to develop and maintain effective environmental management, especially in sensitive areas such as the amazon and the galapagos islands, is of paramount importance for the future of our planet. the country is also home to numerous indigenous and local communities, native tree species, and dozens of endangered animal species. it is therefore important to promote the preservation of the world's natural heritage, which can be achieved in part by supporting the decision of the un human rights council to establish an intergovernmental working group on transnational cooperation and human rights.
written. ‒ i support this decision because eu legislation in the area of animal welfare contributes to the construction of a level playing field in the union and thus the internal market. in addition, animal welfare is closely linked to animal health and public health. in conclusion, i believe that there are imbalances in the food supply chain that put the primary producer at a disadvantage and that this situation at farm level limits the possibilities for investment in infrastructure and animal welfare.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the european parliament resolution on a new animal welfare strategy for 2016-2020 because i believe it is essential that the commission prepares and presents a new approach to animal welfare for the next four years. in this context, account should be taken, inter alia, of the treatment of wild animals and the fact that domestic animals are often not treated appropriately. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the eu's environmental and food law and will continue to monitor the implementation of the eu's environmental and food law.
written. ‒ the level of animal welfare protection in the european union is among the highest in the world. there's still room for further advancement. i supported the european parliament resolution calling on the commission to draw up a new strategy for the period 2016-2020 that will set new standards in the protection of animal welfare in the member states. animal welfare should be further improved on the basis of existing scientific research, but also taking into account the welfare of citizens' pets and the efficiency and competitiveness of livestock farming. it is important that national animal welfare rules do not conflict with the principles of the eu single market.
written. ‒ in recent years, the protection and welfare of farmed animals in the european union have increased significantly. unfortunately, while the quality of life of most animals in the eu has improved, this has unfortunately been paid for by the reduced quality of life of many farmers in some areas. the welfare of animals must be taken into account, but at the same time these measures must be adapted to the real possibilities of european farmers and adequately assisted financially in these efforts. the commission shall be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 264 concerning the conditions for the application of this regulation. this is why i believe that europe needs a new strategic framework, but also an improved and simplified legislative framework, as the european parliament already requested from the commission in its 2012 resolution. i would also recall the european parliament's call on the commission to carry out a study on the eu labelling scheme for meat and dairy products with a view to informing consumers about farming methods and the impact of such labelling on animal welfare, which should have been followed up by a legislative proposal, if appropriate. i believe that this would achieve the maximum effect of consistent and transparent consumer information.
written. ‒ a high level of animal welfare is crucial for sustainability, and animal welfare is closely linked to animal health and public health. unfortunately, due to their complexity and different interpretations, national and eu animal welfare rules leave room for legal uncertainty and can put producers in certain member states at a significant competitive disadvantage. i therefore join the calls on the commission to develop a new ambitious animal protection and welfare strategy for the period 2016-2020 to build on the work started under the existing strategy, thereby ensuring the continued implementation of the framework to bring high animal welfare standards in all eu member states.
written. ‒ i support the motion for a resolution on the new animal welfare strategy 2016-2020. while the previously adopted eu animal welfare strategy 2012-2015 is being implemented, i believe that it is useful to continuously work on improving the legal rules and measures implemented to achieve the eu's objectives in this area in order to unify the existing rules but also to achieve higher standards. national rules must not be contrary to the principles of the eu single market. the regulation of animal welfare legislation contributes to the creation of a level playing field and thus to the success of the eu internal market. the complexity and different interpretations of national and eu animal welfare rules leave room for legal uncertainty, and it is necessary to allow producers to make better informed decisions. the commission has not found any evidence that the union industry would have benefited from the measures in question. i support the review of the existing strategy and the development of a new one, which guarantees the achievement of high animal welfare standards in all member states. it is not unknown that european citizens have shown a great interest in regulating animal welfare issues linked to animal and public health and it is therefore very important to regulate this issue in a high quality and efficient manner.
written. ‒ i support this motion for a resolution because eu legislation on animal welfare contributes to the good functioning of the internal market. european citizens have a great interest in animal welfare. i also support the motion for a resolution because national animal welfare rules must not be in conflict with the principles of the eu single market. i believe that animal welfare is closely linked to public health. furthermore, animal welfare needs to be further improved on the basis of the prevailing scientific evidence. this resolution will contribute to a higher level of animal welfare where it is important to ensure sustainability which implies investments and additional costs that are not distributed proportionally throughout the food chain. the complexity and different interpretations of eu and national animal welfare rules create legal uncertainty and can place producers in certain member states at a serious competitive disadvantage. i therefore support this motion for a resolution to avoid such a situation.
the european union strategy for the protection and welfare of animals 2012 2015 (com ((2012) 0006) was launched with the aim of establishing a clear plan for the implementation of measures in the field of the european union animal welfare policy. the strategy incorporates many aspects of the parliament's resolution of 5 may 2010. the council has proposed a new strategy for animal protection and welfare for the period 2016-2020. the strategy aims to simplify the eu legal framework, and to provide the continuity and clarity of operations necessary to achieve further positive developments in the field of animal welfare. i support the council's position on the development of a new strategy for animal protection and welfare for the period 2016-2020. i believe that simplifying the eu's legal framework for animal welfare and protection will ensure better living conditions for them.
written. ‒ i supported the initiative for a new animal welfare strategy for 2016-2020 which proposed that the simplification of the european union's legislative framework for animal welfare be a key part of the new strategy. i believe that this will be beneficial not only for consumers throughout the european union but also for animal breeders. in particular, in addition to increased transparency, emphasis should be placed on enabling higher support to be granted to breeders for meeting animal housing standards, in order to comply with eu law. on the other hand, consumers should be given more information on the meaning of animal welfare declarations on product labels. increasing standards will improve the quality of animal husbandry and end products, and competitiveness of breeders against imports from abroad will be achieved by promoting standards of animal housing and care.
written. ‒ i voted for the motion for a resolution on the education of children in emergency situations and long-term crises because it is precisely children who are the most vulnerable and innocent group of people in our society, who are most affected by the current situations and problems in the world. according to the un, one billion children live in conflict zones, 250 million of them under the age of five, and they lack the basic right to education. access to education for children is extremely important, especially for the millions of children who have been forced to become refugees. universal and high quality public education is of great importance because it brings about the development of society in all areas, and this is just one of the points mentioned in this proposal which i support.
written. ‒ according to the un, about one billion children live in conflict-affected areas. such conditions make it difficult to exercise the children's fundamental right to education. given the growing number of humanitarian crises and displaced populations, the international community should consider education as a fundamental response. education is a development tool needed to enable young people to overcome trauma, reintegrate into society after conflict and acquire the skills needed to rebuild and promote peacebuilding. i supported the report by mep linde mcavan because it is important to include children's education as a priority in the redistribution of eu funds, cooperation with donors is needed and the protection of educational institutions against attacks needs to be improved. in croatia, during the war, as a result of cooperation between governmental and non-governmental organizations, programs were developed aimed at children of war victims. the croatian experience is useful in planning and implementing child support programmes that can be applied anywhere.
written. ‒ every child, regardless of the circumstances in which he or she finds himself, has the right to education. but not only do children in conflict and crisis situations have the right to education, but by allowing children to access education in war-torn countries and crisis situations, we also provide protection for them because while they are in school, children are less at risk of being forced into labor or child marriage, recruited to become child soldiers or become victims of human trafficking. the commission will continue to support the efforts of the member states to ensure that the right to education is fully respected and that the right to education is fully respected. of course, access to education cannot be separated from economic development and is the key to recovery, but education is indeed important for the progress of children living in conflict areas or who have been forced to leave their homes. the commission will continue to support the development of the european union's policy on education and training, and will continue to support the development of the european union's policy on education and training, and will continue to support the development of the european union's policy on education and training.
written. ‒ according to un estimates, one billion children live in conflict zones, 250 million of them under the age of five and do not have a basic right to education. as many as 65 million children aged 3 to 15 are most affected by emergencies and protracted crises, putting their continuing education at risk. half of the world's out-of-school children live in conflict zones, in arab countries 87 percent of out-of-school children live in conflict zones, and about 175 million children are likely to be affected by natural disasters every year, and as many as 37 million children of primary and lower secondary school age are out of school in crisis-affected countries. these are frightening data that point to the need for urgent action to protect the most vulnerable, the people who need care, safety and education the most. the commission will continue to support the implementation of the un children's fund (unicef) and the un children's fund (unicef) and will continue to support the implementation of the un children's fund (unicef) and the un children's fund (unicef).
written. ‒ the possibility of emergencies is constant and it is in line with the fundamental values of the european union to react in a timely manner and try to prevent the negative consequences that may arise as a result of certain events. it is to safeguard fundamental principles such as solidarity, respect for human dignity, equality, tolerance, that the eu has set up the humanitarian aid and civil protection division (echo). the activities of the committee shall be aimed at protecting human life and the dignity of the persons concerned. however, action covers a broad range of all possible activities carried out to improve the quality of life. education is one of the ways of building quality post-conflict communities and it is particularly important to support the development of educational institutions and to enable every child to realize one of his or her fundamental rights, the right to education. the union's financial contribution for the period 2014-2020 is estimated at eur 5 million. as humanitarian aid is the only way to enable children in war zones to participate in educational programmes and thus provide opportunities for development and progress, i believe that attention should be focused on this issue. i therefore support the motion for a resolution tabled by my colleague, mrs linda mcavan.
written. ‒ i support this motion for a resolution because according to un estimates, one billion children live in conflict-affected areas, of which 250 million are children under five, and do not have a basic right to education. it is also estimated that 65 million children aged 3 to 15 are most affected by emergencies and protracted crises, putting their continuing education at risk. i believe that education is a fundamental human right and the right of every child, because education is key to the full enjoyment of other social, economic, cultural and political rights. this resolution highlights the importance of universal and high-quality public education as a catalyst for development that improves the potential of other actions in the areas of health, sanitation, disaster risk reduction, job creation and poverty reduction and economic development, and also highlights the importance of education as a powerful instrument needed to provide a sense of normalcy, and to strengthen rights awareness and help children. it's important that young people overcome trauma, reintegrate into society after conflict and learn the skills needed to rebuild their societies.
written. ‒ the un estimates that one billion children live in conflict zones, 250 million of whom are under the age of five and do not have a basic right to education. education is a key factor for the integration and improvement of the living conditions of children with disabilities and/or special educational needs. the eu's 'children of peace' initiative provides 1.5 million children affected by conflict and crisis in 26 countries with access to schools where they have the opportunity to learn in a safe environment and receive psychological support. the commission will continue to support the development of the union's external relations, in particular through the establishment of a european union external relations office. the european union's humanitarian assistance is vital for communities and victims of new and long-term crises, especially children, who are among the most vulnerable victims of humanitarian crises. i support this resolution because i believe that quality education for children is crucial in rebuilding conflict-affected societies because it can increase their earning potential, provide better health care for their families and improve their chances of breaking out of poverty.
written. ‒ i supported the proposal to increase humanitarian aid in the education sector in countries affected by emergencies and protracted crises to 4% of total humanitarian aid in order to ensure children's access to quality education. in particular, i believe that in countries affected by emergencies and protracted crises, the right to education must be guaranteed, which can be significantly improved by increasing the share of humanitarian aid allocated to this purpose. furthermore, i believe it is of the utmost importance that host countries ensure that refugee children have full access to education, not only at primary level, but also to secondary and vocational training, and that they promote their integration and inclusion in the educational systems of that country. this can be achieved by establishing proposed 'educational corridors' through which students from such countries, in particular from syria, iraq and eritrea, can be accepted to universities. this will help them to integrate into the society of the new country and to adapt to new cultural environments.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution - towards a simplified cohesion policy focused on impact for the period 2014-2020, as a former mayor of the istrian county, which has achieved excellent results in the field of european funds, i am well aware of the problems of preparing, applying and implementing eu projects. it is necessary to simplify all the stages of the management of eu programmes themselves, from the european to the national and regional level, as well as all the stages of the project cycle encountered by beneficiaries of european funds. the aim is to find models that allow for the easy implementation of european programmes, improve the absorption of resources and be results-oriented. it should be noted that even such simplified rules prevent possible misuse and fraud in the use of eu funds. in this respect, i support the commission's efforts to simplify cohesion policy, but on the other hand it should be pointed out that this process itself is becoming quite complicated for the beneficiaries, given that different funds have different rules. the solution can be in the preparation of the cohesion policy in the next programming period, taking into account the experience of the simplification process and the harmonisation of rules and working methods across all eu funds.
written. ‒ despite the reform of cohesion policy for the period 2014-2020, which addresses simplification, application, management, reporting and control methods, policies are complicated for beneficiaries and managing authorities, especially those with less administrative and financial capacity. i supported the european parliament resolution because it is necessary to simplify cohesion policy and to call on member state governments to provide assistance to municipalities and cities with lower fiscal capacity in preparing and co-financing projects. i agree that simplification of the rules for managing esi funds should be promoted in order to ultimately improve their use. the success review is an effective instrument to assess the effectiveness of the operation and to make effective proposals for simplifying policies.
written. ‒ cohesion policy is the eu's main policy for growth and investment development, aligned with the objectives of the strategy for smart, sustainable and inclusive growth - europe 2020 and aimed at reducing disparities between regions and promoting convergence, with a budget of eur 351.8 billion by the end of 2020. unfortunately, despite all efforts, excessive bureaucratization, especially at regional and local level, hinders the effective management of esi funds in the eu by member states, regional and local governments. changing rules, or devising new ones, all with the aim of bureaucratising the necessary control procedures that do not produce real effects in reducing errors and better targeting european funding should be prevented. like most lawyers i wonder how long? that is why i support the questions to the european commission. it is necessary to find the right balance between responsibility and simplification. the solution is simple - less control, and harsher penalties for violators, especially those who deliberately break the rules.
written. ‒ the complexity of the application and withdrawal procedures for funds can place a significant burden on beneficiaries, especially smes, ngos and municipalities that need eu funds and that most often lack the financial and human resources and expertise to successfully apply for and manage eu grants. despite the reformed cohesion policy for the 2014-2020 programming period, which sets out simplification, implementation, management, reporting and control methods with regard to the european structural and investment funds, some difficulties still exist for beneficiaries and managing authorities, in particular those with less administrative and financial capacity. in view of all the above, i join the calls of the commission to come forward as soon as possible with detailed simplification guidelines to make member states and their regions aware of their task in removing or at least significantly reducing the administrative burden and over-regulation at national and local level in public procurement procedures, the selection of project proposals and monitoring and control activities, including frequent changes in regulations, simplification of language and standardised procedures and the emphasis of the eu budget on tangible results.
written. ‒ a balanced development that meets the objectives of cohesion policy requires a specific simplified approach to development for smes, ngos and municipalities to obtain financial resources, build human capacity and improve their level of expertise. i believe that the applications themselves for cohesion policy programmes must therefore allow those who need the assistance of these programmes the most to apply. therefore, in addition to the mandatory requests from the reporting agents of all data that can detect and prevent irregularities and fraud, it is important to take into account that assistance is most needed by those whose human and other capacities cannot meet the requirements of complex cohesion policy procedures. if we do not work to simplify these procedures by removing all the problems we have seen in previous programming periods, we risk making cohesion policy even more unequal for its beneficiaries. the commission should also be able to use the information provided by the member states to assess the impact of the cohesion fund on the implementation of the cohesion policy. in this sense, i support all activities aimed at simplifying all cohesion policy procedures.
written. ‒ i support this motion for a resolution because parliament recognises the importance of the significant steps taken by the eu institutions towards simplifying procedures. the complexity of the provisions causes barriers and delays to market entry, as well as many indirect costs for potential users seeking eu funds. this reduces the impact of investment funding and creates barriers for eu users, citizens and businesses, in particular smes. i support this proposal because a complicated procedure can place a significant burden on beneficiaries, especially smes, ngos and municipalities, who are in need of eu funding. there are entities that do not have the financial and human resources or expertise to successfully apply for eu management and support.
written. ‒ this resolution proposes to reduce red tape, especially for smes, ngos and municipalities, which are seeking support from eu funds. the commission has also received comments from the united kingdom and the united states on the application of the measures in force. the commission and the member states are therefore called upon to continue the efforts already made to simplify reporting and to fight against the detection and prevention of irregularities and fraudulent attempts. the resolution also proposes 31 december 2015 as the date by which the commission and the member states should move to so-called 'e-connectivity', as a condition for a significant reduction in the overall time needed for notification. i support this resolution because it provides greater opportunities and a simpler process for all those who wish to apply for incentives. i believe that by filing more properly filed applications, there will be more payoffs, which means more investment in various sectors of society, job creation, and economic growth.
written. ‒ i consider simplification and results orientation to be one of the essential elements of a successful cohesion policy and therefore warmly welcome this question. the establishment of common rules in the structural and investment funds segment of the european regional development fund, the european social fund, the cohesion fund, the european agricultural fund for rural development and the european maritime and fisheries fund i consider crucial for the further development of the union's regional development policy. i continue to welcome the establishment of the high level group of independent experts in the commission to oversee simplification for beneficiaries of the european structural and investment funds, oversee financial regulation and the common rules provisions. the fact is that complicated procedures can place a significant burden on the beneficiaries of the funds, especially smes, ngos and municipalities, who are the ones who need the funds the most, as they do not have sufficient human and financial resources, nor expertise, to successfully complete all phases of eu support. in this regard, i consider it commendable and necessary to call on the commission and the member states to make further efforts to simplify the arachne risk assessment system, as it must strike a balance between simplification on the one hand and the detection and prevention of irregularities, including fraud, on the other.
madam president, let's put our hands on our hearts and tell each other the truth. this is an emergency agreement. an agreement of necessity, and it's primarily because of us, because of the situation in the european union, because of everything that the migrant crisis has brought to the european union. but i think that, regardless of all that, we have to talk, negotiate, bargain and agree. we cannot of course fail to see, and i believe the commission sees, what is happening in turkey at this very moment, when we talk about human rights, about freedom of the press. and that's why i'm arguing that this is, of course, an emergency agreement. from the urgency of helping refugees and primarily refugees from war-torn areas. the opening of negotiations and chapter 17 should be followed by chapters 23 and 24.
the following is the list of the clubs that have been awarded the contracts: madam president, mr timmermans, you have fulfilled your promise a year ago that we will have a circular economy package by the end of 2015. and we got a rounded package, but we can't agree that we got a more ambitious package. we lost a year. our economy has lost the momentum to push the european economy at the european level to embrace the circular economy as the way forward. the new proposal contains new elements, which is commendable, because we have really rounded up the economy. however, binding targets for resource efficiency were not set. the link with the european semester in the indicators of resource efficiency has been lost. the targets for reducing waste, the targets for reducing marine pollution and the targets for reducing excessive food waste have been missed. let me remind you, all of this was written and voted on in a report by the european parliament in july of this year. but that information was obviously lost somewhere in the corridors of the european commission. we have not received concrete measures, but only minor amendments to the waste management directive, and all the rest is a list, i dare say, of wishes or a list of other action plans without concrete measures. there is too much on a voluntary basis, and my question to you, mr timmermans, is: what guarantees does the commission give us that the package will be implemented, and today we are witnessing problems in the implementation and implementation of existing legislation? what market, you mention, will be the guarantee of implementation when it does not actually exist today? the proposal to tackle waste-to-energy in the energy union is a wake-up call. our economy needs sustainable innovation, it needs smart design, not incineration. burning, mr. timmermans, is taking us back to the stone age instead of being the leader in new technologies and the global leader. you've done some good things. you have allowed some member states a free period if they cannot meet their targets. but how are you going to enable those countries to actually, when the moment comes and they say they can't meet those targets, they can actually meet those targets and they can meet those targets with measures that, as i said, are in action plans that don't contain concrete measures.
madam president, i salute mr. vice president and i agree with him completely that we cannot compete on high wages, but on high quality and innovative use of natural resources, certainly. a circular economy means making more use of the resources we have. it means recognizing the value in the resources that we've thrown away. this package proposed by the european commission is an important step forward and a clear message to europe, a message to all of us to put the high quality and multiple use of the resources we have at the forefront. the zero waste goal is important to achieve, but when the generation of waste cannot be prevented then incinerating that remaining part is a much better solution than disposing of it. and finally, the 600 billion euros we can save every year by preventing waste, by eco-design and recycling, and how we need to invest and create jobs.
written. the proposed circular economy package is a step in the right direction, but i expected an even more ambitious proposal from the european commission. it must become an integral part of the european economy, a practically new concept of economy, but also a way of managing resources that we have thrown away or destroyed quite unnecessarily until recently. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's policy on climate change and its impact on the environment, and will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's policy on climate change and its impact on the environment. special attention should be paid to the disposal of huge quantities of food, which is a social and moral obligation of all those involved in these decisions.
written. today we heard from the european commission the framework and the way forward for a circular economy programme that can help kick-start european economies that are less dependent on imported raw materials. this project aims to provide economic benefits, environmental benefits, but also social benefits. this is a significant step towards moving europe from a linear to a more sustainable circular economy. as such, it should be supported and pursued to the greatest extent possible and as soon as possible. you'll agree that we want better waste management, and what ends up in landfills we want to put to good use. food waste should be curbed because it's immoral to throw food away when so many people are starving. so we need changes in the value chain, from product design to new business and market models, from new ways of turning waste into a resource to new ways of consumer behavior. this involves a complete change of systems and innovation, not only in technologies but also in organization, society, funding methods and policies. the administrative burden on family farms and small and medium-sized enterprises should be reduced.
madam president, the security challenges in europe have not been greater than the time of the defensive war in croatia and bosnia and herzegovina, and we are here analyzing our security needs and the actions of the security agency on the basis of the initiative of 2012 and the report submitted in 2013 when this current threat did not even exist. of course, we must respect the legislative and administrative procedure, but i believe that citizens expect us to take security measures based on what will be in two years, not on what has been in the past. following the conclusions of the valletta meeting, this report puts the focus on the human rights of migrants rather than the safety of our citizens. today, when our external borders are under enormous pressure, it is a bit absurd to propose to increase the number of frontex staff to handle the human rights violations of migrants that we receive, when those human resources could be much better used to protect the security of our citizens who are funding all of this.
madam president, i cannot help feeling that in all the discussions we have when we talk about frontex, when we talk about the dublin system, we are somehow showing that we were not prepared for everything that happened to us. well, in this case, when we talk about frontex, which i support, which needs to be strengthened, which will take us many years to come, because this migrant crisis will last for many years and will not end tomorrow or the day after tomorrow, but i don't even know what time frame to set. and we need frontex, but frontex that will really be both an agency and people who will be trained and understand human rights issues and protect the rights that immigrants and people who want to come to europe have. in this context, i support this report by our rapporteurs.
madam president, i am proud to have participated in the organization of the first car-free day in croatia 15 years ago. we wanted to raise awareness of the need to reduce cars in city centers and increase the use of public transport. despite efforts across the european union, it is clear that the urban transport sector is still the only sector where greenhouse gas emissions are increasing. the number of people living in cities is also increasing, and within 15 years, sadly, 4 out of 5 of the population of the european union are expected to live in cities. such statistics are detrimental to sustainable land use, but also to quality of life. as the use of personal cars is still the dominant mode of transportation in cities, there is an unbearable congestion, a high noise level, and a high incidence of accidents. this is why changes in urban mobility are necessary. the commission should also be able to provide information on the impact of the measures taken on the environment and the environment protection. public transport must be available to all citizens.
written. today, a high concentration of people live in urban areas, and it is estimated that by 2050, 82% of eu citizens will live in cities. as the urban population is projected to grow significantly, urban centres will continue to face societal challenges related to quality of life and sustainable development, and serious urban planning will be required. as urban populations increase, urban mobility increases, and that still means the use of cars. 96% of the eu's energy needs for transport depend on oil and its derivatives, corresponding to a third of total energy consumption. i believe that spatial planning is the most important stage in creating smooth, safe and sustainable transport networks that have a real impact on citizens' lives and traffic, and i stress that safety must always be seen as a key element of sustainable urban planning. it is also necessary to give priority to low co2 transport modes, including electric vehicles and vehicles using alternative fuels or having intelligent transport systems in place.
president of the council. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, with just a few days to go until the official closing ceremony of the european year for development in luxembourg on 9 december, i am particularly pleased to have this exchange with you on this example of excellent collaboration with the european institutions, involving member states, civil society, the private sector and all those concerned with development issues. from the outset, the council and the member states of the european union have been very directly involved in the european year for development. first, in the context of the preparatory work for the adoption of the decision of the european parliament and the council, which launched the european year for development, on the basis of a commission proposal. we were thus ready, as of 1 january 2015, to celebrate and live this year under the motto "our world, our dignity, our future". together we have put in place an exceptional programme of activities to highlight the achievements of the european union, acting with the member states, as a global player and the world's leading provider of official development assistance. highlights included the inaugural session in riga and the debate in brussels on the post-2015 development agenda, with young people in particular, in the presence of un secretary-general ban ki-moon. many member states also held an official inauguration of the european year for development in their own countries, in the presence of the highest authorities, thus demonstrating their commitment to development cooperation and attracting the attention of the national media. but above all, the member states have played a key role in implementing the european year for development by bringing activities as close as possible to the european citizens. we have worked hand in hand with regional and local authorities, civil society, education, culture and research actors, all these partners who, in one way or another, share a sense of responsibility and solidarity. we naturally also included the private sector, because its role is paramount and development is a responsibility that we all share. we have been able to use social media and digital media to reach one of the main target groups, namely young people. young people are at the heart of the new 2030 sustainable development goals. many young people are actively involved, but it was essential to continue to support them, to inform them in their process and to arouse the interest of those who feel even less involved. 2015 was an iconic year, rich in international events directly linked to sustainable development: the milan world expo, the united nations general assembly during which the 2030 sustainable development goals were adopted , the conference on financing for development in addis ababa, the climate change conference currently taking place in paris , to name just a few of the most important. these events served as a sounding board for the european year of development and enabled the european union to deliver its message with strength and conviction. i do not need to repeat here the importance of development. the many debates we have had in this house in recent months, particularly on migration and the refugee crisis, have demonstrated this again, if need be. development is often the key and is, in a way, the reverse of migration. i had the opportunity to say this when we discussed sustainable development a few months ago. the fight against poverty and the despair that drive people to leave their countries in the worst conditions must remain a high priority. this year we have been able to raise public awareness of the benefits of development cooperation, not only for the beneficiaries but also for the citizens of the union, and to improve understanding of the concept of policy coherence for development. despite the difficult times we are living through, european citizens tell us that they are broadly in favour of development cooperation and that they remain in solidarity with our less favoured partners. we must do everything we can to keep this spirit alive and to continue to translate this desire for solidarity into concrete action. i should like to begin by thanking the european parliament and, in particular, mrs mcavan and her colleagues in the committee on development for their contribution to the success of this european year. next week you will be with us in luxembourg to close this year. i would also like to congratulate the spirit of interinstitutional cooperation which has enabled a joint declaration by parliament, the commission and the council to be launched within a very tight timetable, which represents the legacy of the european year for development. the declaration will be signed in luxembourg on 9 december to continue the spirit of the year and to encourage the european institutions and the member states to continue their efforts to raise awareness among european citizens beyond 31 december 2015.
member of the commission.– mr president, we are approaching the end of the european year for development. this has been a year of partnership, innovation, networking and the sharing of experience. it has seen the european institutions come together with national governments and parliaments, and with civil society and private sector and international organisations, to promote the message that development cooperation is important for all. the year’s motto, ‘our world, our dignity, our future’ has been a constant reminder that development cooperation is not just about people in developing countries. it is also about how we, as europeans, respond to them. i wish to thank parliament for its vital role in initiating, supporting and driving the european year for development. this has taken many forms. i can see that the square outside this chamber is being decorated with european year for development posters. i would like to thank, in particular, president martin schulz, mrs linda mcavan, the chair of the committee on development, and mr charles goerens, member of the committee, for their strong support. 2015 has been a critical year for development, with the addis ababa action agenda and the 2030 agenda on sustainable development adopted and, hopefully, an ambitious climate framework forthcoming. at the same time, a significant increase in refugees and migrants worldwide is a stark reminder of how important it is to address the root causes of instability and irregular migration – in other words, to give everyone the potential to live a life of dignity at home, rather than fleeing from hunger, poverty, insecurity or violations of human rights. for me the main success of the european year for development was – and is – the partnership with so many development actors in europe and beyond. i am very happy that parliament, the council and the commission will together acknowledge the legacy of this year by endorsing a joint declaration at the official closing ceremony in luxembourg. let us work together to maintain this spirit of partnership when discussing, promoting and communicating development cooperation beyond 31 december this year. let us all take the legacy of the european year for development forward to become a common framework and a true platform for a continuous and ongoing european development dialogue in the years to come.
on behalf of the ppe club. mr president, mr minister, mr commissioner, perhaps we expected 2015 to develop differently at the beginning of the year. now, some might argue that 2015 was actually more years of mass migration to europe than it was european year of development, and there's no doubt that migration has dominated our discussions and attention lately, but all of this just confirms the importance of an effective development policy. this confirms the need to focus more on the causes of the problem, not just the symptoms. the causes of poverty, war, and then of course mass migration. and the causes can be found precisely in the systematic violation of human rights, in the endemic corruption in many of our neighboring countries, and in the lack of good governance. and that is why, in this year, the european year of development, we have sought and succeeded in changing the global framework for development and introducing a specific development goal, development goal 16, on peace, on justice, on fighting corruption, on effective justice, on good governance. this is a great achievement of the european union. i take this opportunity to emphasize the role of the commissioner. now the important thing is implementation and in this implementation of the new global agenda 2030 we must focus on this development goal 16 as a priority in our actions, and all in line with the concept of development policy that is based on human rights. we must also fully accept that there is no development without peace and vice versa, that there is a clear nexus, a clear link between development and security. finally, i would also like to congratulate my colleagues from the other political groups, in particular the chair of our committee on development and also mr goerens, who also conceived the work of parliament in this european year of development. (the speaker agreed to answer the question by raising the blue card on the basis of rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure.)
answer the question posed by raising the blue card. dear colleague, what i said is that there is no peace without development and there is no development without peace. so i did say that. one thing and the other go together. i think there is one link between development and security, and that's what most of us in the development committee emphasize. we need to see now in the implementation of this new agenda what measures we need to revise within our development policy to remove those barriers that prevent us from perhaps addressing in a better, more effective way this link between development and security.
mr president, it is precisely what is happening in the world, what happened in 2015, that shows the whole meaning of the european year of development. everything that has been done by the european union, by the member states and by all those who have good intentions in helping the poorest countries in the world, the countries from which immigrants come, the countries from which the crisis comes, shows the need for solidarity in action, there is no alternative. so i strongly support the european year of development, as i also support all those intentions that go to prevent future migrants, and those are climate migrants, climate change migrants. i think that's what we're going to have to deal with in the coming years and it's going to be a new, very big challenge for the european union.
mr. president, i'm sorry mr. buonanno interrupted this relatively idyllic discussion, but i would love to see a lot more men involved in this discussion because now that we're talking about this ourselves, it seems like we're in some kind of conflict of interest and we're fighting for our own interests. however, unfortunately the fact is that in this parliament, i have to tell you the older i get the more i'm a supporter of quotas. simply put, society will not be fair until women are equally represented and until we are half and half or even more than half. of course, on equal terms, with equal treatment as already stated here. so, as mr schmidt said, a lot of progress has been made since 2010, and i thank you for keeping this issue high on the agenda during the luxembourg presidency. we went from 11% to 21% of women on the board. i think that's a solid step forward, but it's still not enough. you said to be patient. women are known for being patient, but i think it's time that gender equality finally got some kind of reflection on these boards. i believe we will succeed in doing so, but of course it is the member states that have to respond. i expect that on monday 7 december you will, in principle, be able to influence the member states to accept this directive, because it is obvious that where there is legislation, they behave differently in that member state. i would therefore ask you, since parliament has done its job, to continue to do your job in the council. as for women graduates, who are 60 percent male and 6 percent male, i think there's a huge disparity, and so it's definitely clear that not all countries have that ratio. i just want to point out that there's 2.5% in malta which is very low compared to the eu average of 21%. i believe we all strive... (president interrupts speaker)
mr president, women are still underrepresented among the board members of european companies, even though we discuss this and similar topics several times a year. i believe that we all agree in this house that the management positions in european companies must be equally open to women and men. women must have the same opportunities as men because they are equally capable of learning, working hard, performing the most complex tasks and leading other people. that's why i want women to have an equal role in the business world because they deserve it through hard work, not through someone's pity. any woman who earns her place on a company board by imposing her knowledge and skills on her male colleagues seems immensely much for all women. because of such strong women, we must work to change the mindset among europe's business people and punish any form of discrimination appropriately.
mr. president, in the 400 largest croatian companies, the proportion of women in the board is 15%, and in the supervisory boards 21%. we talk a lot about the glass ceiling that women face in the business world, but we haven't made much progress. we agree that we need to give women greater access to the business world, especially at the very top of that world. while quotas may not solve the structural problem of women's under-representation in the business world, they can contribute to promoting greater gender equality and open up new opportunities for women that would not be available to them without quotas. no one expects women to be put in positions just because they are women, but quotas must serve as incentives to give capable women who have the necessary knowledge and qualifications to run businesses, and who are denied managerial positions just because they are women, the opportunity they deserve. the business world can't be a man's world, and he is now. we have to open it up to women, and we have to be united in that. we have a model, and we need to work on implementing it, but in a way that doesn't violate subsidiarity and doesn't commit private entrepreneurs to something that we're not able to implement in the public sector.
mr. president, we are on the right track. we're heading in the right direction, but the goal is still far away. i used to wonder, when i was younger, why we needed quotas. but after 25 years of politics, i am absolutely convinced that this is the only right way to go if we really want gender equality. we should ask ourselves how this parliament would look at all if there were no political quotas on the various lists, especially when we are talking about smaller, lower units of local or regional self-government. but i'll say this: i'm not entirely sure that the approach we just heard about men's quotas is something that will help all of us to really talk about gender equality here in a sincere way. i'm not sure that kind of radicalism is going to do much for those of us who want that equality.
mr. president, where are our friends from the european people's party now? there's no one here. they're not interested in hungary? the situation in hungary? or maybe our friends don't have any arguments, so that's why they're not here and don't want to participate in this debate? commissioner, you have mentioned so many things that i wonder if this country is even a member of the european union. would someone who has all these problems that you have listed: the question of the judiciary, freedom of the media, the treatment of the roma, the free movement of capital, state subsidies could such a country become a member of the european union? we do have a serious problem within ourselves. perhaps even hungary is no longer an isolated case. and i believe that this commission will really do everything to try to put everything that is happening in hungary in order. otherwise, they're gonna have to really activate article 7 to the hilt.
mr. president, is it possible that our generation will witness a cultural genocide like we saw in palmyra or an ecocide like we may see in virunga? we are witnessing a great crime against the cultural heritage of humanity, against the natural heritage declared by unesco, and i am sure that all of us here must take some responsibility for what is happening. the united nations must do something. the european union must be the one to push the united nations even with units to preserve the cultural and natural heritage of the world in those parts of the world where we have unrest. i think that's the only way we should go because anything else would mean the destruction of centuries of cultural and, of course, natural heritage.
mr president, the rural areas of the european union are a great asset of our continent. we have great examples of successful cohesion policy, we have great examples where rural areas have developed really fast, but unfortunately we still have many more examples of the opposite. we have major problems with the implementation of cohesion policy and rural development. what i want to highlight are some examples that i have personally worked on that are successful examples, especially in this case i am specifically talking about the development of central istria. small towns such as motovun, gračiće, tinjan, pičan, grožnjan, oprtalj are small areas that have managed to really lift up this whole area, the rural area of istria, through an integral approach, the development of infrastructure, tourism, agriculture and culture, and this is a great example of how the synergy of all activities can develop a rural area in the european union.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the proposal for a decision establishing the special committee on taxation and other measures similar in nature or effect, its powers, composition and duration of mandate, as this makes it possible to analyse the european commission's practice of continuous monitoring of the support systems existing in the member states, to advise on the functioning and development of the internal market, and to examine all those measures relating to taxation and other measures similar in nature or effect. i consider it positive that the said committee will complement and continue the work of the taxe committee, and i also support the proposal to monitor the work of international institutions and the way in which the eu institutions and member states implement the recommendations set out in parliament's resolution of 25 november 2015.
written. ‒ i supported the proposal of the conference of presidents to re-establish the special committee on taxation decisions and other measures similar in nature or effect, taxe 2, for a term of 6 months. the taxe 2 special committee will continue and complete the work of the taxe 1 special committee and will continue to monitor the practices of member states in relation to eu state aid and taxation rules and in relation to corporate tax practices. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament and the council adopt a common position on the proposal for a directive on the approximation of the laws of the member states relating to the labelling, presentation and advertising of foodstuffs for sale to the ultimate consumer.
written. ‒ the initiative to tackle the various tax reporting manipulations by multinational companies, all for the purpose of gaining illegal added profit, has come in handy in times of crisis when countries are facing a drop in tax revenues due to reduced economic activity. i welcome the proposal to put an end to large multinational corporations which use the lax laws of individual eu countries, and especially third countries, to make a profit, avoid paying taxes or pay less than they are supposed to. the operations of multinational corporations must have a positive effect on both the local economy and the economy of the whole country and, consequently, on its revenue side of the budget. the introduction of detailed reports on company operations and the tax system is a step forward in ensuring that companies operate in accordance with the law, but also that the beneficial impact on local economies is indeed felt. i support the introduction of a regulatory body that would consolidate all national information findings on legislative solutions, corporate profits and specific agreements between national governments and companies. the commission should also be able to take into account the impact of the tax avoidance regime on the taxpayer's tax liability.
written. ‒ i support this proposal for a decision because i believe that the establishment of a committee at eu level to deal with tax-related issues will contribute to the efficiency of tax policies and help member states in the control of tax decisions and measures. the commission shall be assisted by the special committee on taxation and the committee on budgetary control. the commission has also analysed and assessed the commission's practice of carrying out a continuous monitoring, in accordance with article 108 tfeu, of all aid schemes existing in the member states, of proposing to the member states appropriate measures necessary for the progressive development or functioning of the internal market, of verifying whether aid granted by a state or through state resources is compatible with the internal market and of ensuring that it is not used in a manner contrary to the rules. i also believe that the commission should clarify and communicate the role of the committee in order to avoid misunderstandings between member states about its role. i also believe that this committee will contribute to further integration and market opening within the european union.
written. ‒ i oppose the extension of the mandate of the taxe special committee, i.e. the establishment of the taxe ii committee for a period of six months, proposed by the epp, s&d and alde groups, arguing that the same is necessary to guarantee the successful completion of the mandate of the first taxe committee. the main arguments were that the first committee had not yet received all the necessary documentation and information requested by the commission and the member states to enable it to complete its mandate in an efficient and effective manner. the primary function of the new committee would, as indicated, be to concentrate on absorbing the information they lack and, in general, to continue to implement the recommendations made by the first committee. i consider the creation of a new taxe ii committee to be completely unnecessary and pointless for the reason that it will not provide any added value but will only have the purely formal function of completing the work of its predecessor, which is sufficiently efficient, if not more efficient, and in any case cheaper for taxpayers, and this can also be solved through the already existing forums of the european parliament, such as the econ committee's working group on taxation. that's why i voted against it.
written. ‒ i voted for the appointments to the special committee on taxation decisions because it allows the committee to start work within six months and with 45 members, and is in line with rule 197 of the rules of procedure of the european parliament. i believe that the committee will have an important role to play and that the structure of the taxe committee should be maintained, while consistency and independence will be key to achieving the objectives set.
written. ‒ i have supported the proposal of the conference of presidents on the appointment of members of the special committee on taxation and other measures similar in nature or effect taxe 2. i congratulate all the members who have been re-elected to the select committee, and especially my colleagues from the european people's party. the special committee members must emphasise that strengthening the single market is one of the union's priorities and that to achieve this we need to have clear positions on the fight against tax fraud and tax evasion and ensure that member states respect the minimum requirements of the established tax rules.
written. ‒ i support the establishment of a special body to continue the fight against unfair corporate tax practices. this body will have to work towards the equality of tax treatment of national and multinational companies in all member states. as several arrangements (formal and informal) have already been established concerning specific tax policies towards target companies, i consider that such a body is a necessary tool in ensuring the basic rules of competition in the market which must be the same for all. the commission notes that the commission has not provided any evidence that the state has taken the necessary measures to ensure that the aid is compatible with the internal market. the european union is based on the single market, and if the establishment of a permanent body to ensure the implementation of union regulations and monitor practices can help ensure that this basis functions properly, then i certainly support such an initiative. clearly, this is an additional problem that the european union needs to address institutionally.
written. ‒ i support the appointment of representatives to this special committee on taxation decisions because i believe that they will contribute to the quality of the work of the committee itself with their expertise in the field of fiscal policy and taxation. the committee shall propose to the member states appropriate measures necessary for the progressive development or functioning of the internal market, shall verify that aid granted by a member state or through state resources is compatible with the internal market and shall ensure that it is not used in a manner contrary to the rules and thus contributes to the improvement of the functioning of the internal market.
written. ‒ i did not support the appointment of the proposed candidates to the taxation committee because i believe that extending the work of this committee will not significantly contribute to the discovery of new information regarding the allegations that some member states provide special tax benefits to international corporations, which is why it was originally established. in the course of its work, the committee has examined tax rulings in the member states and held hearings with experts, as well as various meetings with representatives of non-governmental organisations and public officials involved in the creation of taxation rules, during which the members of the committee concluded that modern competition in the field of corporate taxation is harmful. the commission also found that the state had not provided the state with sufficient information to justify the imposition of the measures. these results show that the temporary committee has fulfilled its task and i believe that it is now necessary to restore the powers of the bodies already established to deal with these issues. as i am against the establishment of a new taxe ii committee for six months, i also voted against the appointment of a representative to the same committee.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the draft legislative resolution of the european parliament on the proposal for a council decision on the conclusion, on behalf of the european union, of the amending protocol to the agreement between the european community and the principality of liechtenstein providing for measures equivalent to those laid down in the council directive on taxation of savings income in order to promote international tax cooperation and harmonisation. the eu and liechtenstein shall cooperate in the exchange of information on financial accounts with each other and with the competent authorities of the other member states. in addition, liechtenstein will apply enhanced measures in that area which are in line with the legal framework of the european union and i therefore support this report.
the agreement between the european union and liechtenstein on the exchange of financial account information was signed on 28 october 2015 with the aim of enhancing international tax cooperation. i supported the report by representative sander loones because the agreement represents a step forward in the fight against tax fraud and tax evasion. the commission notes that the commission has not provided any information on the amount of the tax exemption for the taxable persons who are not resident in the eea. the eu and liechtenstein will exchange information on residents' financial accounts automatically from 2017. the commission notes that the tax advisor did not provide any evidence that the tax advisor would have been able to rely on the information provided by the tax advisor.
written. ‒ the proposal for a council decision on the conclusion, on behalf of the european union, of the amending protocol to the agreement between the european community and the principality of liechtenstein on measures equivalent to those laid down in the council directive on taxation of savings income in the form of interest payments, seeks inter alia to improve international tax cooperation and compliance, which i certainly support. i support the agreement signed by the european union and liechtenstein on 28 october this year on the automatic exchange of information on financial accounts as it represents an important step in the fight against tax fraud and tax evasion. the amending protocol seeks to implement the oecd global standard between the member states and liechtenstein, which is a good thing because it contributes to transparency and aims to ensure that liechtenstein applies enhanced measures that are equivalent to the eu legal framework. having regard to the proposal for a council decision, the draft amending protocol and the recommendation of the committee responsible, i have voted in favour of this report and i am in favour of approving the conclusion of the amending protocol.
written. ‒ i support the report by mr loonis on the proposal to amend the agreement between the european union and the principality of liechtenstein on the taxation of savings income in order to make the measures equivalent to those laid down in council directive 2003/48/ec. the amendment will develop an automated system through which the member states of the european union and liechtenstein will exchange information on the bank accounts of their citizens. this will be a major step forward in the fight against tax fraud, which is one of the european union's most pressing economic problems. it is estimated that up to a trillion dollars is lost annually in the eu as a result of tax avoidance. the commission notes that the commission has not provided any information on the number of sampled union producers in the union. also, because of the automation of the system, the costs of investigating each individual case of fraud will be avoided. in addition to the financial aspect, and taking into account the advice of the european commission, the principle of data exchange described in this report has been created in accordance with the oecd global standard for the automatic exchange of financial account information.
written. ‒ i support this proposal for a decision of the council of the european union, as i believe that a further agreement between the european union and the principality of liechtenstein in this area will make it easier to locate and track natural and legal persons who are trying to avoid taxation. i believe that punishing offenders will discourage potential perpetrators of these same crimes in the future. i also think we need to adopt this draft as soon as possible so that it can be put into effect by 1 january 2016.
written. ‒ following the adoption of council directive 2003/48/ec, the savings directive, in order to maintain a level playing field for economic operators, the eu signed agreements with switzerland, andorra, liechtenstein, monaco and san marino. the importance of automatic exchange of information as a means of combating cross-border tax fraud has also recently been recognised at international level. the g20 has entrusted the organisation for economic cooperation and development (oecd) with the task of developing a single global standard for the automatic exchange of information on financial accounts. the oecd council published the global standard in july 2014. the commission should be able to assess the compatibility of the aid with the internal market in accordance with article 107 (3) (b) of the treaty. on 18 march 2015, the commission adopted a proposal repealing directive 2003/48/ec. i support this proposal as this amendment provides a harmonised and comprehensive approach to the automatic exchange of financial account information in the internal market at union level and implements a global standard between the eu member states and liechtenstein.
written. ‒ the extension of the 2004 agreement with liechtenstein aims to ensure that liechtenstein's measures are in line with the european union's legal framework, through the automatic exchange of information on the financial accounts of its citizens, which will come into force in 2017. i consider this enlargement to be an important step in the effort to combat tax fraud and tax evasion, as it will allow for increased transparency and enforcement of tax laws in other countries. in addition, i find it extremely useful that this exchange will assess the possibility of tax evasion and avoid unnecessary investigations. i believe that aligning this agreement with the current global standards of the european union and the organisation for economic cooperation and development will contribute to a more effective fight against cross-border tax fraud and i have therefore voted to extend this agreement.
written. ‒ i voted for the report on the special report of the european ombudsman on the own-initiative inquiry oi/5/2012/beh-mhz concerning frontex because i believe that this agency should establish a mechanism for individual complaints about violations of fundamental human rights during its operations and provide appropriate administrative support, not only within the eu but also in cooperation with third countries. the mechanism would therefore become the primary complaint handling body, which would certainly contribute to greater transparency and awareness of violations of fundamental human rights.
written. ‒ frontex's task is to ensure the effective implementation of common rules on control and surveillance of external borders and coordination and cooperation between member states. however, the role of frontex in these moments is more than border control as saving lives is an integral part of their mission. frontex has an impact on human rights, in particular in the interception of illegal migrants, asylum seekers and refugees at land and sea borders. the human rights of migrants, refugees and asylum seekers must be respected without discrimination, irrespective of their administrative status and circumstances. i supported the report by meps roberta metsola and ska keller because human rights, democracy and the rule of law are at the heart of the lisbon treaty and the aim of the common foreign and security policy. the union's external action should be geared to the needs of the union's external action and should be based on the principles of the union's external action and the union's external action.
written. ‒ as one of the key agencies of the european union in the performance of border surveillance and protection tasks, which are undergoing a conceptual and practical redefinition in the face of new challenges, it is necessary to emphasise that frontex in its work must not be an exception to the practice of the european union in terms of the protection of human rights under the charter of fundamental rights. as frontex's activities mostly involve working with vulnerable and vulnerable groups such as women, minors, displaced persons, refugees, we must be aware that the framework defining their operational segment really needs to be a reflection of what the european union is. the establishment of an individual complaint mechanism is a step forward in terms of institutionalising the protection of rights and ensuring equal treatment. such a control model is a guarantee of the quality of the implementation of the frontex mission, but also a means of external and internal evaluation of the body's own work. the commission has also taken into account the fact that the staff of the european parliament and the council are not entitled to receive compensation for the damage caused by the infringement of the staff regulations. the introduction of the individual complaint model should not be seen as an attack on the current work of the agency, but as a guarantee that future work will be even better.
written. ‒ i support the report by the rapporteurs roberta metsole and ska keller on behalf of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs and the committee on petitions on the special report of the european ombudsman on an own-initiative inquiry concerning frontex, which insists on the implementation of an individual complaint mechanism. the regulation of the parliament and of the council requires frontex to guarantee respect for fundamental human rights and the rights of migrants, refugees and asylum seekers, as well as any other rights. since there are no legal obstacles to the introduction of an individual complaint mechanism under the frontex regulation, and in view of the growing humanitarian and legal challenges at the external borders of the eu and the strengthening of frontex operations, a mechanism is needed to be able to handle individual complaints about alleged fundamental rights violations occurring during frontex operations. such a mechanism is necessary in particular to increase transparency and respect for fundamental rights. i believe that further development of frontex is important because there is no other joint body to manage and coordinate actions on the territory of several countries, and member states taking measures on their own without coordination with other member states cannot achieve the same success.
written. ‒ i support this report because i believe that further clarifying the role of frontex and further regulating their relationship with work will lead to further and better respect for human rights and the aforementioned rules. i think it would be useful to have a mechanism where people can send their suggestions, demands and criticisms. the commission will continue to support the implementation of the european border and coast guard agency's (ebsa) 'border and coast guard agency' (bsa) policy, which aims to ensure that border guards are able to effectively and efficiently respond to the needs of the citizens of the union and to the needs of the member states.
written. ‒ frontex was established to ensure, in cooperation with the member states, the effective enforcement of the rules on controls at the external borders of the european union. however, in this report by the eu ombudsman, it is considered that the human rights problem in the framework of frontex is not clearly defined. in order to ensure that the complaint is not subject to any form of appeal, the commission should be able to take appropriate measures to ensure that the complaint is not subject to any form of appeal. the report also recommends the creation of a single form containing all the relevant data necessary to process the application as efficiently as possible. the form should be written in languages which the asylum seeker can understand and contain all the legal remedies available to him. the reporting of irregularities should be possible on the frontex website and via the mobile application. i accept the proposals in this report because i believe that by setting clear standards for the acceptance of appeals procedures, and facilitating the submission of the same through a single form, they further ensure human rights for all asylum seekers.
written. ‒ 2011. frontex has been given a specific task to act in accordance with the charter of fundamental human rights in the performance of its activities in its work it should create administrative arrangements that will not only promote but also monitor the compliance of actions in border areas with the charter. in 2012, the european ombudsman launched an own-initiative inquiry into frontexa's activities in the area of respect for fundamental human rights and submitted a report to the european parliament. while the report found that frontex had made reasonable progress in its obligations under the charter, the ombudsman found that it did not have a mechanism to address individual violations of fundamental human rights. on this basis, parliament has developed a model to enable individual complaints to be dealt with and resolved more effectively in the future, a model similar to that used in other european agencies and bodies. this approach, which, at a time when external borders are under unbearable pressure, once again puts the respect for human rights above the security dimension, is unacceptable to me. to advocate for an increase in frontex staff to deal with complaints of human rights violations instead of using these human resources for more urgent purposes is a completely failed policy of sticking one's head in the sand, which europe has already been left with.
written. ‒ i voted for the sustainable urban mobility report because i believe that the eu's actions so far have been very successful and positive and should be continued. large cities and urban centres face daily societal challenges, quality of life challenges and sustainable development challenges, among which urban mobility and transport play a significant role. this report aims to improve environmental protection, quality of life and health, and also focuses on many interesting innovations that take a smart approach to urban mobility.
written. ‒ i supported the proposals put forward in the report by ms karima delli. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's policy on urban mobility and its impact on the environment. this report aims to refocus urban mobility towards sustainable modes of transport in order to meet today's challenges. i also support the call for the commission to allocate 20% of the european union funds to projects to maintain urban mobility. member states are currently facing a crumbling and costly infrastructure. the rapporteur proposes that 50% of the eurovignette revenues be invested in improving urban mobility and that 75% of urban roads be used for the development and maintenance of urban transport infrastructure.
written. ‒ i supported this report because i believe that the personal contribution of each of us, citizens of europe, but also of the whole world, is equally important no matter where we live. our personal contribution to reducing emissions of pollutants and greenhouse gases may seem insignificant from the standpoint of personal consumption and personal contribution compared to the global scale, but if we look at our contribution cumulatively as the aggregate contribution of each individual inhabitant of europe, and we all drive over 220 million personal vehicles together (often for our own personal profit), then we have to ask ourselves whether we are acting responsibly towards our communities and the future of our children. well-managed public transportation, accessible to most people, can make a difference. each urban area is unique, with different conditions and opportunities, but there are also many similarities. i welcome the development of a platform that will enable the exchange of experience and best practice between cities. i call on all decision-makers at local and regional level to take this opportunity to share their good and bad experiences and to identify strategies that will make urban transport more sustainable than it is today.
written. ‒ i support the report by ms delli on sustainable urban mobility. greenhouse gas pollution, high noise levels and unsustainable daily traffic congestion are extremely serious problems in large urban areas in the eu. also, each city has specific characteristics and needs and must therefore be considered separately. for this reason, there is no one-size-fits-all solution, but each member state must create its own package of measures to reduce pollution caused by urban transport. urban transport is responsible for 70% of co2 emissions in urban areas and is the only sector in the european union whose greenhouse gas emissions continue to grow. according to a study by the european environment agency, 125 million eu residents are exposed to excessive noise from urban transport. this proposal will make a major step forward in improving environmental protection, quality of life and health. on the financial side, negative externalities and thus costs will be reduced in the long run. energy efficiency, the use of renewable energy sources, sustainable development and technology neutrality are concepts mentioned in the proposal and are crucial to achieving the objectives of the european union.
written. ‒ i support this proposal because i believe that the overcrowding of cities and the use of a large number of cars is bringing air pollution to a critical point. such a situation presents an environmental problem. so i think we need to work on improving public transportation to give everyone a quality ride to work, school, or any other place they need to go. i also believe that the right to mobility is a basic human right and i believe that people should be given as many options as possible that will lead to a reduction in the use of personal cars and thus a reduction in the rate of pollution. improving public transportation will reduce emissions of harmful gases within cities and thus prevent further pollution.
written. ‒ today, a high concentration of population is found in urban areas, and it is estimated that by 2050, 82% of eu citizens will live in urban areas. the commission shall be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 264 concerning the establishment of a european data protection supervisor. as urban populations increase, so does urban mobility. urban mobility still relies heavily on the use of conventional fuel cars. as a consequence, 96% of the energy needs of transport in the eu depend on petroleum and its derivatives, corresponding to one third of the total energy consumption. i support the council's position because i consider that spatial planning is the most important stage in creating smooth, safe and sustainable transport networks that have a real impact on overall life, traffic and its distribution, and i stress that safety must always be seen as a key element of sustainable urban planning. it is also necessary to give priority to low-emission modes of transport, including those that are electrically powered and those that use alternative fuels and have intelligent transport systems in place.
written. ‒ while i believe it is extremely important to promote new, sustainable modes of transport in cities and to focus on environmental aspects and to focus priorities on cyclists and pedestrians, many of the proposals in this report undermine the principle of subsidiarity by the member states. the commission will continue to support the development of the european union's urban mobility strategy, which is based on the principles of the lisbon strategy and the lisbon strategy, and will continue to support the european union's urban mobility strategy. the commission also found that the electric vehicles market is not a competitive market. i consider it inappropriate and excessive to suggest that the 'dedicated revenue' principle linked to road tolls is used to improve sustainable urban mobility, and i consider as an additional shortcoming of this report the non-inclusion of a strong recommendation to use diesel engines, especially with a focus on the current controversial volkswagen case. for these reasons, i voted against this report.
the question he raised by raising his blue card. thank you for accepting my blue card. you mentioned renewable energy and cooperation with neighboring countries. my question is do you agree with me that we should use more of the potential that the western balkan countries have? and that hydropotential, and as an example i'll cite the fact that it's your country italy from montenegro that will get electricity through an underwater channel on the adriatic. so, do you support the western balkan countries getting involved in this common policy in some way?
mr president, mr commissioner, we have again forgotten the citizens in today's debate. i want to emphasize again how important the role of local governments, small businesses and citizens is in creating energy efficiency through investing in advanced networks, through the transformation of cities in the smart city concept. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the energy union strategy and its implementation in the member states. however, this is not enough. we need to invest in citizen education and lifelong learning to gradually change the culture of consumer behavior. in a true circular economy that we associate with the energy union, waste must be returned to the economy as a raw material, so preparing for reuse and recycling have a much higher priority than incineration.
mr president, i support the creation of a strong energy union that will ensure a stable supply of secure energy to member states and their citizens on more favourable terms. the fact that the main points of supply at the moment are mostly politically unstable environments where energy serves not only as a means of trade but also as a political blackmail should be an additional motivation for us to create a common energy market. the commission notes that the aid is limited to the minimum necessary to ensure the viability of the project. therefore, i would like to emphasise once again the need to build an lng terminal in krk, croatia, which i believe will be a key energy hub for central and south-eastern europe in the future.
mr. president, i want to warn you of a problem we're about to have. because when we make the right decisions here on organic farming, we will find ourselves in a situation where our brand, which has our stars, the european stars, and is linked to organic products or organic products, will be treated differently in different countries. the point is that what i insist on is that the label really means organic or bio-based in all member states in the same way will not be taken into account. what's the matter, man? the amount of pesticides in an apple will be different in different member states, and we will essentially have the same label that will tell us that it is the same eco-product or bio-product. i think it's going to be a big problem for consumers and a big consumer fraud that's going to follow, and we know how sensitive the organic and eco-friendly market is.
mr president, europe is unambiguously a continent of tolerance, but unfortunately europe is also unambiguously a continent with a long history of terrorism. we remember the red brigades, the baader-meinhof group, eta, the ira and all those terrorist attacks we have had recently in madrid, london, and now in paris. all of this is the history of terrorism on european soil. that is why this directive is so necessary. we really need to show maximum solidarity with the victims, including the entire system, both the european level and the local level, because that is the only way to really help the victims, because they live everywhere in some city, in some place. the inclusion of social care, the inclusion of ngos, the inclusion of the health system, the inclusion of all those who can help the victims through a directive like this is definitely welcome and that is why i support these intentions that the commission has at this moment.
madam president, i would like to ask a general ethical question to all those who advocate genetically modified organisms. we will obviously pass this directive, although i am very much against it, we will have genetically modified corn in our fields as livestock feed for soon-to-be-cloned animals. here in this chamber, unfortunately, many advocate genetically modified organisms. many, or at least some, of the individuals here are advocating animal cloning. i ask all of us here, are we aware of our choices? we'll be eating cloned animals that feed on genetically modified organisms. i ask you, madam commissioner, to tell your colleagues to withdraw this decision and to start thinking differently about how to deal with our diet.
madam president, i have personally witnessed how microfinance is a truly great instrument. i have had personal experience with many users of such microfinance in istria and i can say that i have seen how problems in many families can be solved in a quick, simple and objectively accessible way. microfinance that's geared towards self-employment, microfinance that's geared towards marginalized communities or marginalized groups and vulnerable groups, all those groups that can really with very little resources get into their new jobs, get into something that will enable them to succeed in life. i therefore strongly support this instrument of the european union in the hope that it will be even more successful because i believe that this commission really wants to solve the problems of the economic crisis we are witnessing.
madam president, interinstitutional cooperation with the countries of the middle east and the near east is the basis for the common fight against terrorism and serious crime associated with it, but without upgrading the quality of this basis there is no effective stopping of this global scourge. we cannot turn a blind eye to the double game of some of the gulf countries, which on the one hand formally cooperate with the west, while on the other encourage religious extremism and sponsor violence and terrorism. the time is fast approaching when the geopolitical reasons that have so far tolerated such menace will no longer be sufficient to justify our cooperation with dishonest partners who openly sponsor those groups that directly threaten the security of our citizens. the uae is nevertheless a good example in the region and i hope that the full implementation of this cooperation should serve as an example for other countries in this part of the world in the future.
madam president, adapting technical measures to the specificities of each fishing region is the right way to achieve sustainable fisheries. our struggle is common, but the solutions must not be universal, but must take into account all our differences, and i am glad that the rapporteur has recognised and understood this. there are still regions in europe where fishing is not just an industry and a big business, but a way of life that has existed for centuries and deserves to be preserved. the universal solutions provided for in the regulation on management measures for the sustainable exploitation of fisheries resources in the mediterranean sea, which prohibited a whole range of non-commercial fishing gear, have seriously damaged the social image of the croatian islands and coastlines, for example, which is unacceptable. as we fight to redress this injustice, i will be very happy to support this resolution because its recommendations on adapting the common fisheries policy to the specific needs of different regions are absolutely a step in the right direction.
member of the commission.– madam president, we highly appreciate the own-initiative report on technical conservation measures prepared by mr mato, which provides a valuable insight into parliament’s thinking on how the proposal for technical measures should look. the report is very timely, because the commission is at this moment preparing a legislative proposal for modernised technical conservation measures for the whole eu. i am happy to say the report is well in line with our own analysis, recognising regionalisation and simplification as the way forward. the new proposal is a priority for the commission, and i can confirm that we intend to table the proposal early in 2016. it will basically consist of a framework body of basic rules, covering all eu waters. we intend to concentrate on changing the governance model. this will allow for regionalisation, and changes to the substance will be limited to simplification by removing redundant measures and regionalising others. this is an ideal opportunity to apply a more flexible approach to achieving our objective of sustainable fisheries management. it is also important to underline that the new proposal will not change the conservation standards that we have now: it rather enables improved conservation. on multiannual plans, again, the commission very much agrees with the analysis in your report. these plans are a crucial element of the reformed common fisheries policy because, firstly, they are the main instrument for achieving the objective of maximum sustainable yields in an orderly fashion. secondly, they contribute to certainty and stability for the industry. thirdly, they are an important tool for implementing the landing obligation and regionalisation. the negotiation on the first such multiannual plan for the baltic fisheries is finally progressing well. we have largely overcome the interinstitutional and political differences, and the commission is hopeful that we can achieve a compromise soon. we will continue to facilitate such an agreement. we look forward to working with parliament on these two important issues, which are both vital parts in reaching our common goal of long—term environmentally, economically and socially sustainable fisheries.
madam president, in times of crisis, the journalistic profession takes on added importance, and the media and their professionalism become essential for social stability and peace. the slightest lack of professionalism in such chaotic circumstances can turn into a spark that will ignite the flame of intolerance and violence. one example is the british newspaper the sun, which published an unverified story that could have seriously damaged the reputation of the republic of croatia. croatia does not have the logistics to deal with a crisis of this magnitude in the long term, but our police, soldiers and citizens are still recovering from the consequences of other people's irresponsibility and political failures. they should be thanked for this, not falsely accused, and i hereby call on my fellow mps to join me in condemning this kind of journalistic unprofessionalism today, while it is still an exception, because tomorrow such dangerous behaviour could become the norm.
madam president, we want to strengthen monetary union, but also to extend it to all member states, because we do not want to divide it into the eurozone and the others. the achievement of the objectives of economic union, namely convergence and social cohesion, is therefore crucial. we need to put all instruments at the service of meeting the objectives of economic union while strengthening the single market through a wider range of structural reforms and investments. we need to answer the question of how we see the future of cohesion policy, how to strengthen it and link it more closely to the objectives of economic union. it also looks at the future of the eu budget and the multiannual financial framework and how to better coordinate the different european policies. finally, we must not forget that the most important thing for convergence and sustainable economic growth is the partnership, the unity and the determination of member states to implement joint initiatives and changes.
madam president, the critics of the euro argue that the euro is a political project and therefore cannot succeed. it's all a political project. the european union is a political project, the single market and the future common digital market, the energy market, all of this is a political project. so is the euro political project. of course the euro was born in different conditions, in different economic conditions. it may be part of the idealism of the european union, but that it is definitely necessary and that there is definitely no real alternative, because the alternative would be chaos, is clear to each of us here today. i therefore want to support the commission and all the relevant euro area institutions that want to deepen and extend the euro to all member states. i think it's extremely important for the future of our continent.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the draft legislative resolution of the european parliament on the draft council decision on the conclusion of the agreement between the european union and the swiss confederation and on the modalities of its participation in the european asylum support office, as this gives its consent to the conclusion of that agreement. i consider it extremely important to strengthen cooperation between the european union and third countries in that area and to enable such situations to be overcome. the commission should also be able to provide information on the number of persons who have been granted asylum in the member states, the number of persons who have been granted asylum in the union and the number of persons who have been granted asylum in third countries. i also believe that strong joint cooperation and synergies are needed and that switzerland has an important role to play in this context. therefore, i support this recommendation.
written. ‒ i supported the recommendation calling on the council to adopt a decision on the conclusion of an agreement between the european union and the swiss confederation on the modalities of its participation in the european asylum support office (easo). the commission proposal concerns cooperation with the swiss confederation in the context of the exchange of information and best practices and assistance in the operation, analysis and preparedness of the asylum support office. the commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down the rules for the participation of third countries in the work of the committee. although switzerland is not a member of the european union, and therefore not obliged to participate in the reallocation strategy, i believe that the moment in which we are faced with the wave of refugees, the threat of terrorism and conflicts in the neighbourhood is the moment in which we all work together.
written. ‒ i welcome the conclusion of an agreement with the swiss confederation on the modalities of its participation in the european asylum support office. this step by switzerland, which is not a member of the european union but which shows a willingness to accept responsibility for dealing with the large influx of refugees from war-torn areas, is an example to all european countries of how to behave in difficult times. the intention of the swiss authorities to participate in this programme gives hope that the spirit of european unity and solidarity exists. in difficult times, europe has always shown its human side, but we need a new solidarity with those who suffer. a well-regulated swiss social services system will provide refugees with the opportunity to enjoy a life of dignity in freedom and full human rights. i support the swiss initiative and willingness to participate and hope that other non-eu countries will follow suit and work together to alleviate the situation on the ground.
written. ‒ i support the draft council decision on the conclusion of an agreement between the european union and the swiss confederation on the modalities of its participation in the european asylum support office. at a time when we are facing a growing number of refugees and migrants and are still trying to find a common response at the level of the european union, any additional cooperation and contribution is welcome, especially when it comes to a country that is territorially surrounded by the member states of the european union and cooperates with the union as a whole on a number of other issues and competences.
written. ‒ i have supported the draft agreement between the european union and the swiss confederation on the modalities of its participation in the european asylum support office, taking into account the existing draft agreement between the european union and the swiss confederation on the modalities of its participation in the european asylum support office, but also taking into account the recommendation of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs. therefore, i give my consent to the conclusion of the agreement.
written. regulation (eu) no 439/2010 established the european asylum support office. the regulation provides that the support office should be open to the participation of countries which have concluded agreements with the union. switzerland has concluded agreements with the eu under which it applies eu law in the area to which the regulation applies, in particular the agreement between the european community and the swiss confederation. the agreement provides for the criteria and mechanisms for determining the state responsible for examining an application for asylum lodged in a member state or in switzerland. the swiss confederation shall contribute to the budget of the support office by the following means: i fully support the council's proposal for an agreement between the european union and the swiss confederation to strengthen practical cooperation between member states in the field of asylum, to implement the common european asylum system and to provide support to member states whose asylum and reception systems are under particular pressure.
written. ‒ i supported this agreement, as i consider it important to define precisely the nature, scope and manner of switzerland's participation in the work of the european asylum support office, as well as switzerland's financial contributions to it. the office shall be responsible for the implementation of the relocation and relocation programmes. the commission has also concluded that the swiss authorities have not provided sufficient evidence to support the conclusion of the agreement on the swiss participation in the joint undertaking. as a member of parliament coming from a country through which almost half a million migrants have passed, i believe that cooperation with a country like switzerland is extremely important for managing the current migration crisis, as it can offer much-needed expertise and help in ensuring effective management of the current crisis.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the draft legislative resolution of the european parliament on the draft council decision on the conclusion, on behalf of the european union, of the agreement between the european union and the community of dominica on the short-stay visa waiver, as this waiver will benefit the tourism sector, which can make a significant contribution to the development of the economy and the production of geothermal energy. the dominican community has a high growth potential and therefore needs to improve the conditions for investment and international trade, to which visa liberalisation will certainly contribute significantly. it is also important to note that the community of dominica is a stable democratic state that respects the fundamental values of the european union and does not pose a threat of illegal migration, and i therefore support this recommendation.
written. ‒ an agreement between the european union and the dominican republic on the short-stay visa waiver has been concluded. the agreement provides for visa-free travel for citizens of the european union and for citizens of dominica for a maximum period of 90 days in any 180-day period when travelling to the territory of the european union. i supported the report by ms mariye gabriel, as the agreement was concluded and signed in accordance with the council decision, applied on a provisional basis and required the consent of the european parliament to enter into force.
written. ‒ i support the agreement between the european union and the dominican republic on the short-stay visa waiver. i welcome the further development of friendly relations between the european union and the dominican republic. i am pleased that the visa waiver covers all categories of persons wishing to travel and stay without a visa for a short period of time, up to a maximum of 90 days in any 180-day period from the date of first recorded entry. the agreement provides for visa-free travel for citizens of the european union and the dominican republic to the territory of the other contracting party. the commission has also provided information on the progress of the implementation of the eu-dominican republic association agreement with the republic of san marino. in view of the close relationship between the european union and norway, iceland, switzerland and liechtenstein, in particular by virtue of the agreement concerning the association of those countries with the implementation, application and development of the schengen acquis, i invite those countries to conclude bilateral agreements on the short-stay visa waiver with the dominican republic containing provisions similar to those contained in this agreement.
written. ‒ i support the abolition of short-stay visas for dominican citizens within the european union, with the exception of ireland and the united kingdom. i believe that this decision will enhance eu-dominica cooperation and foster exchange and development, which is why i supported this proposal.
written. i support the recommendation of ms mariye gabriel on the draft council decision on the conclusion, on behalf of the european union, of the agreement between the european union and the community of dominica on the short-stay visa waiver. the dominican republic is a small developing country in the caribbean sea that is a signatory to the cotonou agreement, among many others. the community of dominica's gdp is largely based on agriculture and is reported to have great potential for economic growth in the coming years. the dominican republic has a strong commitment to the human rights guaranteed by the constitution to all its citizens, and has made strong progress in the context of the rights of women and children. the problem of human trafficking is getting smaller thanks to the public awareness of the problem. the commission should also be able to request the issuance of visas for short-stay visits to third countries, in particular for those countries which have not yet adopted the schengen acquis. i believe that the acceptance of this proposal is crucial for the further development of relations between the two sides, which will increase tourist travel and intensify trade and investment.
written. ‒ i support this amendment to the agreement between the european union and dominica, taking into account the recommendation of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs. the commission has also proposed to amend the agreement in order to improve relations between the countries concerned. the abolition of short-stay visas allows citizens to gain new experiences and facilitates the development of mobility. citizens who leave the eu can bring their newfound experience back to their home country, thereby further improving relations between the eu and the country in question, as well as the situation in their own country. and they indirectly promote the european union in their own country.
‒ negotiations on a visa waiver agreement with dominica and four other caribbean countries started on 12 november 2014 in brussels. the agreement between the european union and the community of dominica on the short-stay visa waiver allows citizens of the european union and citizens of dominica to stay without a visa in the territory of the other contracting party for a maximum of 90 days in any 180-day period. the visa waiver covers all categories of persons (ordinary, diplomatic, official and special passport holders) whose purpose of travel does not involve the pursuit of a paid activity. the agreement takes into account the situation of member states which do not yet apply the schengen acquis in full. the visa waiver will allow dominican citizens to stay for 90 days in any 180-day period in the territory of each of those member states (bulgaria, croatia, cyprus and romania), irrespective of the period calculated for the whole schengen area. i support the council's decision to lift the visa requirement with dominica, as i believe that by lifting the visa requirement we develop friendly relations between the contracting parties and facilitate travel by ensuring visa-free entry and short-stay for our citizens.
written. ‒ i supported the recommendation to conclude an agreement between the eu and dominica on the short-stay visa waiver, which provides a framework for continued cooperation open to democratic process. cooperation between eu member states and the acp group of countries, if strictly controlled and regulated, can be beneficial to both parties to the agreement and contribute to the promotion of democratic relations between eu member states and acp members. the dominican republic is a small country, a small island in the caribbean sea, with great potential for development. the dominican republic has a long-standing relationship with the european union, which has been strengthened by the accession of the dominican republic to the european union. that's why i voted yes.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the draft legislative resolution of the european parliament on the draft council decision on the conclusion, on behalf of the european union, of the agreement between the european union and the republic of vanuatu on the short-stay visa waiver, as that agreement will boost the private sector, economic policy and tourism. the union's external action will be guided by the principles of the lisbon strategy, which aims to achieve the objectives of the lisbon strategy. the vanuatu economy is characterised by agricultural activities and i believe that closer cooperation with the european union and its member states will contribute to growth and a greater tourist offer. visa abolition also means bringing the peoples of europe and the pacific closer together and further strengthening the cotonou agreement. therefore, i support this recommendation and the efforts of both sides to achieve better bilateral relations.
written. ‒ the agreement between the european union and the republic of vanuatu on the short-stay visa waiver has been concluded. the agreement provides for visa-free travel for citizens of the european union and for citizens of vanuatu for a maximum period of 90 days in any 180-day period when travelling to the territory of the european union. i supported the report by ms mariye gabriel because the agreement was concluded and signed in accordance with the council decision, is applied on a provisional basis and requires the consent of the european parliament to enter into force.
written. ‒ i support the agreement between the european union and the republic of vanuatu on the short-stay visa waiver. i welcome the further development of friendly relations between the european union and the republic of vanuatu. i am pleased that the visa waiver covers all categories of persons wishing to travel and stay without a visa for a short period of time, up to a maximum of 90 days in any 180-day period from the date of first recorded entry. the agreement provides for visa-free travel for citizens of the european union and of the republic of vanuatu within the territory of the other contracting party. the eu has also provided a number of opportunities not only to the citizens of the republic of vanuatu but also to eu citizens through new business opportunities and facilitated travel. in view of the close relationship between the european union and norway, iceland, switzerland and liechtenstein, in particular by virtue of the agreement concerning the association of those countries with the implementation, application and development of the schengen acquis, i invite those countries to conclude bilateral agreements on the short-stay visa waiver with the republic of vanuatu containing provisions similar to those contained in this agreement.
written. ‒ i support the abolition of short-stay visas for vanuatu citizens within the european union, with the exception of ireland and the united kingdom. i believe that this decision will enhance eu-vanuatu cooperation and foster exchange and development, which is why i supported this proposal.
written. i support the recommendation of mep gabriel on the draft council decision on the conclusion, on behalf of the european union, of the agreement between the european union and the republic of vanuatu on the short-stay visa waiver. the republic of vanuatu is one of the 78 signatories to the cotonou agreement and has very strong relations with the european union. the republic of vanuatu's gdp is mainly based on agriculture (19%) and tourism which amounts to as much as 72% of gdp. the eu imports agricultural products such as palm oil from the republic of vanuatu, while the republic of vanuatu imports electrical and mechanical equipment from the eu. current trade and investment in the republic of vanuatu is weak, however i believe that trade will intensify thanks to this decision. the political situation in the republic of vanuatu is stable and the 2012 democratic elections were described by international observers as free and fair. in addition, experience so far has shown that the vast majority of visa applications are accepted, with only 2% of applications being rejected last year. i believe that the acceptance of this proposal is essential for further deepening the relations between the eu and the republic of vanuatu.
written. ‒ i support this amendment to the agreement between the european union and vanuatu, taking into account the recommendation of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs. also, this proposed amendment to the agreement improves relations between the countries mentioned. the abolition of short-stay visas allows citizens to gain new experiences and facilitates the development of mobility. citizens who leave the eu can bring their newfound experience back to their home country, thereby further improving relations between the eu and the country in question, as well as the situation in their own country. and they indirectly promote the european union in their own country.
the eu has also agreed to extend the visa waiver to all eu citizens who are not eu citizens. the agreement provides for the possibility for citizens of the european union and the citizens of vanuatu to stay without a visa in the territory of the other contracting party for a maximum period of 90 days in any 180-day period. the visa waiver covers all categories of persons (ordinary, diplomatic, official and special passport holders) whose purpose of travel does not involve the pursuit of a paid activity. the agreement takes into account the situation of member states which do not yet apply the schengen acquis in full. the visa waiver will be valid for a period of 90 days in any 180-day period for the citizens of vanuatu on the territory of each of those member states (bulgaria, croatia, cyprus and romania), irrespective of the period calculated for the whole schengen area. i support the council's decision to lift the visa requirement with vanuatu because i believe that by lifting the visa requirement we develop friendly relations between the contracting parties and facilitate travel by ensuring visa-free entry and short-stay for our citizens.
written. ‒ i supported the recommendation to adopt an agreement between the eu and vanuatu on the short-stay visa waiver as visa liberalisation with this pacific country could have direct benefits in the tourism sector. the commission notes that the exemption from the visa requirement for eu citizens is not a new requirement for the citizens of vanuatu, but rather a new requirement for the citizens of the eu member states. the union and its member states have a strong trade and investment relationship with vanuatu, which is a major exporter of electrical and mechanical equipment. i believe that the benefits of adopting this agreement can be mutual, both in terms of investment and in the development of tourism activities, and i therefore voted in favour.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the draft legislative resolution of the european parliament on the draft council decision on the conclusion, on behalf of the european union, of the agreement between the european union and the republic of trinidad and tobago on the short-stay visa waiver, as it is of the utmost importance to facilitate the travel of european union citizens to third countries, to stimulate people-to-people contacts, to boost tourism and to strengthen the economy. the european union is trinidad and tobago's second economic partner and therefore visa liberalisation will facilitate travel conditions for entrepreneurs and investors. in addition, trinidad and tobago is rich in oil and gas, and it also shows signs of a growing tourism sector. on the other hand, as regards the political and institutional situation, trinidad and tobago respects the fundamental values of the european union in the field of fundamental and human rights and values, although additional efforts are needed. moreover, it does not pose a threat to illegal immigration, security or public order, and i therefore support this recommendation.
written. ‒ an agreement between the european union and the republic of trinidad and tobago on the short-stay visa waiver has been concluded. the agreement provides for visa-free travel for citizens of the european union and for citizens of trinidad and tobago for a maximum period of 90 days in any 180-day period when travelling to the territory of the european union. i supported the report by ms mariye gabriel because the agreement was concluded and signed in accordance with the council decision, is applied on a provisional basis and requires the consent of the european parliament to enter into force.
written. ‒ i support the agreement between the european union and the republic of trinidad and tobago on the short-stay visa waiver. i welcome the further development of friendly relations between the european union and the republic of trinidad and tobago. i am pleased that the visa waiver covers all categories of persons wishing to travel and stay without a visa for a short period of time, up to a maximum of 90 days in any 180-day period from the date of first recorded entry. the agreement provides for visa-free travel for citizens of the european union and of the republic of trinidad and tobago within the territory of the other contracting party. this also provides numerous opportunities not only to the citizens of the republic of trinidad and tobago, but also to eu citizens through new business opportunities and facilitated travel. in view of the close relationship between the european union and norway, iceland, switzerland and liechtenstein, in particular by virtue of the agreement concerning the association of those countries with the implementation, application and development of the schengen acquis, i invite those countries to conclude bilateral agreements on the short-stay visa waiver with the republic of trinidad and tobago containing provisions similar to those contained in this agreement.
written. ‒ i support the abolition of short-stay visas for trinidad and tobago nationals within the european union, with the exception of ireland and the united kingdom. i believe that this decision will enhance eu-trinidad and tobago cooperation and foster exchange and development, which is why i supported this proposal. citizens of my country, croatia, can already travel to trinidad and tobago without a visa, so it seems appropriate to extend the same to citizens of this country. i hope that the eu will consistently adhere to the rules of visa reciprocity with third countries that still do not apply the same visa regime to citizens of all 28 member states.
written. i support the recommendation for a draft council decision on the conclusion, on behalf of the european union, of the agreement between the european union and the republic of trinidad and tobago on the short-stay visa waiver. the republic of trinidad and tobago is a signatory to the cotonou agreement and a strong partner of the european union. trinidad and tobago has one of the most advanced economies in caricom (caribbean community) thanks to its large oil and gas resources. it's also a highly desirable destination for foreign investment. in the political context, the constitution of trinidad and tobago strongly protects the civil and political rights of citizens and, like the european union, successfully implements democratic processes. experience shows that the vast majority of travellers travel in good faith and only 0.3% of short-stay visa applications were refused last year. therefore, i do not consider trinidad and tobago to be a security risk or a risk of illegal immigration into the eu. i consider that the conclusion of this agreement is the next step in the relations between the european union and the republic of trinidad and tobago, which will increase trade and tourism.
written. ‒ i support this amendment to the agreement between the european union and trinidad and tobago, taking into account the recommendation of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs. the commission has also proposed to amend the agreement in order to improve relations between the countries concerned. the abolition of short-stay visas allows citizens to gain new experiences and facilitates the development of mobility. citizens who leave the eu can bring their newfound experience back to their home country, thereby further improving relations between the eu and the country in question, as well as the situation in their own country. and they indirectly promote the european union in their own country.
written. ‒ negotiations on a visa waiver agreement with trinidad and tobago and four other caribbean countries started on 12 november 2014 in brussels. the agreement allows citizens of the european union and the nationals of trinidad and tobago to stay without a visa in the territory of the other contracting party for a maximum period of 90 days in any 180-day period. the visa waiver covers all categories of persons (ordinary, diplomatic, official and special passport holders) whose purpose of travel does not involve the pursuit of a paid activity. the visa waiver shall be valid for a period of five years from the date of issue of the visa. the agreement takes into account the situation of member states which do not yet apply the schengen acquis in full. i support the council's decision to lift the visa requirement with trinidad and tobago, as i believe that by lifting the visa requirement we develop friendly relations between the contracting parties and facilitate travel by ensuring visa-free entry and short-stay for our citizens.
written. ‒ i believe that the cotonou agreement, which provides for cooperation between the eu member states and the acp group of countries, namely trinidad and tobago, is a good basis for further deepening cooperation, which is also reflected in this report. i believe that the adoption of the agreement on the short-stay visa waiver can be mutually beneficial for the signatory states, as the eu is the second largest trading partner with trinidad and tobago - a country that bases its economic growth on a liberal trade policy. we also witness the terrible disasters that have struck and continue to strike the most vulnerable groups of those who move in search of a better life. the benefits of this agreement are thus also reflected in the possible joint action to combat illegal migration as one of the pressing problems currently facing the union. i believe that, alongside the economic dimension, a quality political dimension of security cooperation can be developed in the joint fight against illegal migration, trafficking and human smuggling. that is why i voted for this report.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the draft legislative resolution of the european parliament on the draft council decision on the conclusion, on behalf of the european union, of the agreement between the european union and the independent state of samoa on the short-stay visa waiver, giving its consent to the conclusion of the same, as it further strengthens the cotonou agreement. the economy of samoa is one of the most developed in the pacific islands region, with agriculture being the strongest sector. the union and samoa shall cooperate in the following areas: on the other hand, samoa is a parliamentary democracy that has shown progress in respecting fundamental freedoms and political dialogue with the union focuses on environmental protection, human rights and gender equality. i therefore believe that the agreement will contribute to economic growth, economic and cultural links and the launch of a strong tourism sector.
written. ‒ an agreement between the european union and the independent state of samoa on the short-stay visa waiver has been concluded. the agreement provides for a visa-free regime for citizens of the european union and of samoa and for the possibility of a stay of up to 90 days in any 180-day period on the territory of the union and of samoa. i supported the report by ms mariye gabriel because the agreement was concluded and signed in accordance with the council decision, is applied on a provisional basis and requires the consent of the european parliament to enter into force.
written. ‒ i support the agreement between the european union and the independent state of samoa on the short-stay visa waiver. i welcome the further development of friendly relations between the european union and the independent state of samoa. i am pleased that the visa waiver covers all categories of persons wishing to travel and stay without a visa for a short period of time, up to a maximum of 90 days in any 180-day period from the date of first recorded entry. the agreement provides for visa-free travel for citizens of the european union and the independent state of samoa to the territory of the other contracting party. this also provides numerous opportunities not only for the citizens of the independent state of samoa but also for eu citizens through new business opportunities and facilitated travel. in view of the close relationship between the european union and norway, iceland, switzerland and liechtenstein, in particular by virtue of the agreement concerning the association of those countries with the implementation, application and development of the schengen acquis, i invite those countries to conclude bilateral agreements on the short-stay visa waiver with the independent state of samoa containing provisions similar to those contained in this agreement.
written. ‒ i support the abolition of short-stay visas for samoan citizens within the european union, with the exception of ireland and the united kingdom. i believe that this decision will enhance eu-samoa cooperation and foster exchange and development, which is why i supported this proposal. citizens of my country, croatia, can already travel to samoa without a visa, so it seems appropriate to make the same possible for citizens of this country. i hope that the eu will consistently adhere to the rules of visa reciprocity with third countries that still do not apply the same visa regime to citizens of all 28 member states.
written. the independent state of samoa is a signatory to the cotonou agreement and a strong partner of the european union. samoa has one of the most dynamic economies in the pacific. two thirds of the population work in agriculture, which accounts for 90% of total exports. the main areas of cooperation between the eu and the independent state of samoa are the development of tourism, the private sector and the water industry. samoa has been a stable democratic state since independence in 1962. fundamental human rights and freedoms are respected, and the eu's political dialogue with samoa focuses on environmental issues and human rights. the information shows that the vast majority of visa applications are accepted and that samoa does not pose any security risk to the european union. the commission has also received comments from the applicant, which has not provided any evidence to support its claim. in view of the above, i consider that short-stay visas between the eu and the independent state of samoa should be abolished.
written. ‒ i support this amendment to the agreement on the short-stay visa waiver between the european union and samoa, taking into account the recommendation of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs. the commission has also proposed to amend the agreement in order to improve relations between the countries concerned. the abolition of short-stay visas allows citizens to gain new experiences and facilitates the development of mobility. citizens who leave the eu can bring their newfound experience back to their home country, thereby further improving relations between the eu and the country in question, as well as the situation in their own country. and they indirectly promote the european union in their own country.
written. ‒ council regulation (ec) no 539/2001 lists third countries whose nationals must be in possession of a visa when crossing the external borders of the member states and those whose nationals are exempt from that requirement. regulation (eu) no 509/2014 of the european parliament and of the council amended regulation (ec) no 539/2001 by listing third countries, including samoa, whose nationals are exempt from the visa requirement. the agreement on the abolition of visas with samoa was initialled on 15 december 2014. the union has taken the legal basis of the agreement as article 77 (2) (a) tfeu, read in conjunction with article 218 tfeu. the agreement allows citizens of the european union and citizens of samoa to stay without a visa in the territory of the other contracting party for a maximum of 90 days in any 180-day period. the agreement includes a provision whereby samoa may suspend or terminate the application of the agreement only in respect of all member states of the european union and the union may suspend or terminate the application of the agreement only in respect of all member states. i support the council's decision to conclude this agreement, as the objectives set by the council in its negotiating directives have been achieved, the agreement is acceptable to the union and the suspension provision ensures equal treatment for all eu citizens.
written. ‒ relations between the independent state of samoa and eu member states are based on the cotonou agreement, which provides a comprehensive framework for further action in the context of empowerment, both political and trade dialogue. i support the rapporteur's view that the signing of the agreement on the short-stay visa waiver for a specified period of 90 days will facilitate the flow of travellers as no eu member state has a consulate in the independent state of samoa. given the extremely high success rate of visa applications for samoan nationals, supported by the fact that the majority of migrants applying for visas indicate the united states as their preferred destination, i consider that the control mechanisms, i.e. the monitoring necessary to ensure compliance with agreed standards in order to avoid undesirable consequences, should not be neglected. i agree that facilitating passenger flow in this case can have a positive effect and that is why i voted for this report.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the draft legislative resolution of the european parliament on the draft council decision on the conclusion, on behalf of the european union, of the agreement between the european union and grenada on the short-stay visa waiver, as this will contribute to the growth of tourism in grenada, which can certainly boost economic growth. grenada is a country that faces great challenges because of its size and remoteness, and therefore i believe that closer cooperation with the european union, namely visa liberalisation, can stimulate investment and economic links with european companies. in addition, the tourism sector and international trade will be strengthened. the commission has also provided information on the implementation of the un guidelines on the protection of the rights of persons with disabilities and the promotion of the promotion of human rights and fundamental freedoms. therefore, i support this recommendation and the agreement that will bring the european and caribbean peoples closer together.
written. ‒ an agreement between the european union and grenada on the short-stay visa waiver has been concluded. the agreement provides for a visa-free regime for citizens of the european union and grenada and for a maximum stay of 90 days in any 180-day period on the territory of the union and grenada. i supported the report by ms mariye gabriel because the agreement was concluded and signed in accordance with the council decision, is applied on a provisional basis and requires the consent of the european parliament to enter into force.
written. ‒ i support the agreement between the european union and grenada on the short-stay visa waiver. i welcome the further development of friendly relations between the european union and grenada. i am pleased that the visa waiver covers all categories of persons wishing to travel and stay without a visa for a short period of time, up to a maximum of 90 days in any 180-day period from the date of first recorded entry. the agreement provides for visa-free travel for citizens of the european union and grenada to the territory of the other contracting party. this also provides numerous opportunities not only for grenadian citizens but also for eu citizens through new business opportunities and facilitated travel. in view of the close relationship between the european union and norway, iceland, switzerland and liechtenstein, in particular by virtue of the agreement concerning the association of those countries with the implementation, application and development of the schengen acquis, i invite those countries to conclude bilateral agreements on the short-stay visa waiver with grenada containing provisions similar to those contained in this agreement.
written. ‒ i support the abolition of short-stay visas for grenadian citizens within the european union, with the exception of ireland and the united kingdom. i believe that this decision will enhance eu-grenada cooperation and foster exchange and development, which is why i supported this proposal. citizens of my country, croatia, can already travel to grenada without a visa, so it seems appropriate to extend the same to citizens of this country. i hope that the eu will consistently adhere to the rules of visa reciprocity with third countries that still do not apply the same visa regime to citizens of all 28 member states.
written. this proposal is firmly linked to the fact that grenada is a signatory to the cotonou agreement and is a means to enhance the political dialogue between the european union and grenada on the subject of fundamental human rights and freedoms. although it has taken many measures to diversify its economy, grenada is still heavily dependent on banana and spice exports. in recent years, tourism and the construction sector have started to grow, but still not enough compared to other countries in the region. grenada is a stable democratic state and has amended its constitution to strengthen fundamental human rights and strengthen the fight against domestic violence. the information shows that the vast majority of visa applications are accepted and that grenada does not pose any security risk to the european union. for the reasons set out above, i am in favour of the adoption of this agreement which will further develop relations between grenada and the european union.
written. ‒ i support this amendment to the agreement between the european union and grenada, taking into account the recommendation of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs. the commission has also proposed to amend the agreement in order to improve relations between the countries concerned. the abolition of short-stay visas allows citizens to gain new experiences and facilitates the development of mobility. citizens who leave the eu can bring their newfound experience back to their home country, thereby further improving relations between the eu and the country in question, as well as the situation in their own country. and they indirectly promote the european union in their own country.
the visa waiver is valid for the period from 1 january to 31 december of the year in which the entry was made out, unless the visa is issued by a third country. negotiations on a visa waiver agreement with grenada and four other caribbean countries started on 12 november 2014 and the agreement was initialled on 15 december 2014. for the union, the legal basis of the agreement is article 77 (2) (a) of the treaty on the functioning of the european union (tfeu), in conjunction with article 218 thereof. the agreement provides for the possibility for citizens of the european union and the citizens of grenada to stay without a visa in the territory of the other contracting party for a maximum period of 90 days in any 180-day period. the agreement includes a provision whereby grenada may suspend or terminate the application of the agreement only in respect of all member states of the european union and the union may suspend or terminate the application of the agreement only in respect of all member states. i support the council's decision to conclude the agreement between the european union and grenada on the short-stay visa waiver, as the objectives set by the council in its negotiating directives have been achieved, the visa waiver agreement is acceptable to the union and the suspension provision ensures equal treatment for all eu citizens.
written. ‒ i supported the recommendation for the adoption of the eu-grenada agreement on the short-stay visa waiver, which allows citizens of both signatories to the agreement to stay without a visa in the territory of the other for a maximum of 90 days in any 180-day period. i believe that the agreement contributes to strengthening both economic and cultural ties, as well as to intensifying political dialogue. further efforts to achieve the priorities of development cooperation between eu member states and the acp group of countries are urgently needed, with the main objective of preventing the deepening of the humanitarian and political crisis. the visa waiver should be granted to persons who are not nationals of the member states and who are not entitled to stay in grenada. by abolishing short-stay visas and by gaining insight into the developments and achievements in the economies, economies and other areas of developed countries, individuals can acquire the necessary experience and knowledge to help them to promote the necessary social development in their home country from the grassroots level.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the draft legislative resolution of the european parliament on the draft council decision on the conclusion, on behalf of the european union, of the agreement between the european union and the democratic republic of timor-leste on the short-stay visa waiver, as it enhances political dialogue and encourages economic and cultural links. the union and the republic of korea have signed an agreement on the establishment of a joint committee to review the implementation of the agreement. tourism is a key sector in timor-leste, while the european union is the country's third largest economic partner. in that context, this exemption is an additional incentive for european investors and entrepreneurs, while at the same time strengthening the institutions and good governance of timor-leste.
written. ‒ an agreement between the european union and the democratic republic of timor-leste on the short-stay visa waiver has been concluded. the agreement provides for a visa-free regime for citizens of the european union and of timor-leste and for the possibility of a stay of up to 90 days in any 180-day period on the territory of the union and of timor-leste. i supported the report by ms marije gabriel because the agreement was concluded and signed in accordance with a council decision and requires the consent of the european parliament to enter into force, and for the sake of better relations and easier travel.
written. ‒ i support the agreement between the european union and the democratic republic of east timor on the short-stay visa waiver. i welcome the further development of friendly relations between the european union and the democratic republic of east timor. i am pleased that the visa waiver covers all categories of persons wishing to travel and stay without a visa for a short period of time, up to a maximum of 90 days in any 180-day period from the date of first recorded entry. the agreement provides for visa-free travel for citizens of the european union and the democratic republic of east timor in the territory of the other contracting party. this also provides numerous opportunities not only for the citizens of the democratic republic of east timor but also for eu citizens through new business opportunities and facilitated travel. in view of the close relationship between the european union and norway, iceland, switzerland and liechtenstein, in particular by virtue of the agreement concerning the association of those countries with the implementation, application and development of the schengen acquis, i invite those countries to conclude bilateral agreements on the short-stay visa waiver with the democratic republic of east timor containing provisions similar to those contained in this agreement.
written. ‒ i support the abolition of short-stay visas for timor-leste citizens within the european union, with the exception of ireland and the united kingdom. i believe that this decision will enhance eu-island cooperation and foster exchange and development, which is why i supported this proposal. citizens of my country, croatia, can already travel to timor-leste without a visa, so it seems appropriate to make the same possible for citizens of this country. i hope that the eu will consistently adhere to the rules of visa reciprocity with third countries that still do not apply the same visa regime to citizens of all 28 member states.
written. the democratic republic of timor-leste is a signatory to the cotonou agreement and a strong partner of the european union. tourism is one of the key factors in timor-leste's development and i believe that by accepting this agreement, tourist flows between the two signatories would increase. in addition to tourism, this agreement would intensify economic relations. i believe that this agreement would strengthen the position of the european union as a partner of the pacific states. since its independence, timor-leste has been an immediate partner of the european union and has undergone a very intensive process of democratization. human rights and freedoms are protected by the constitution. for the reasons stated above, and given that only 773 timor-leste citizens applied for visas last year, and more than 95% of them were accepted, i believe that by accepting this agreement we are not taking any security risk.
written. ‒ i support this amendment to the agreement between the european union and timor-leste, taking into account the recommendation of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs. the commission has also proposed to amend the agreement in order to improve relations between the countries concerned. the abolition of short-stay visas allows citizens to gain new experiences and facilitates the development of mobility. citizens who leave the eu can bring their newfound experience back to their home country, thereby further improving relations between the eu and the country in question, as well as the situation in their own country. and they indirectly promote the european union in their own country.
written. regulation (eu) no 509/2014 of the european parliament and of the council amended regulation (ec) no 539/2001 by listing third countries, including timor-leste, whose nationals are exempt from the visa requirement. the agreement on the abolition of visas with timor-leste was initialled on 15 december 2014. for the union, the legal basis of the agreement is article 77 (2) (a) of the treaty on the functioning of the european union (tfeu), in conjunction with article 218 thereof. the agreement allows citizens of the european union and citizens of timor-leste to stay without a visa in the territory of the other contracting party for a maximum of 90 days in any 180-day period. the agreement includes a provision according to which timor-leste may suspend or terminate the application of the agreement only in respect of all member states of the european union and the union may suspend or terminate the application of the agreement only in respect of all member states. i support the council's decision to conclude the agreement between the european union and timor-leste on the short-stay visa waiver, as the objectives set by the council in its negotiating directives have been achieved and the visa waiver agreement is acceptable to the union, and the suspension provision ensures equal treatment for all eu citizens.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the adoption of the agreement between the european union and the democratic republic of timor-leste on the short-stay visa waiver. tourism, as one of the most important sectors of the timorese economy, is a key sector in the development path of this democratic republic and therefore a freer flow of travellers would strengthen not only tourist movements but also investments, as the european union is the third trading partner with the pacific countries. however, in order to achieve an integrated, multi-sectoral and sustainable development, both in these countries and in the acp group, it is necessary to ensure strong coordination and coherence between the institutions implementing the decisions. in doing so, i emphasise the role of national parliaments and local authorities in the preparation and monitoring of strategic agreements. i also believe that the control mechanisms, or monitoring, which are necessary to ensure compliance with the agreed standards in order to avoid undesirable consequences of such agreements, should not be neglected. the border authorities should therefore exercise responsibility and caution when carrying out checks, i.e. when determining whether the intention to travel is to stay for a shorter period or to stay longer than intended.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the draft legislative resolution of the european parliament on the draft council decision on the conclusion, on behalf of the european union, of the agreement between the european union and saint lucia on the short-stay visa waiver, as this strengthens the political value of the cotonou agreement and stimulates economic and cultural relations between the two parties. saint lucia is a small country with limited resources and modest economic growth, however, there has been visible progress, particularly in encouraging investment and private sector development. the parties agree to cooperate in the development of the tourism sector in the acp states and in the eu, in particular through the development of the tourism sector in the acp states.
written. ‒ an agreement between the european union and saint lucia on the short-stay visa waiver has been concluded. the agreement provides for a visa-free regime for citizens of the european union and saint lucia and for the possibility of a stay of up to 90 days in any 180-day period on the territory of the union and saint lucia. i supported the report by ms marije gabriel because the agreement was concluded and signed in accordance with a council decision and requires the consent of the european parliament to enter into force, and for the sake of better relations and easier travel.
written. ‒ i support the agreement between the european union and saint lucia on the short-stay visa waiver. i welcome the further development of friendly relations between the european union and saint lucia. i am pleased that the visa waiver covers all categories of persons wishing to travel and stay without a visa for a short period of time, up to a maximum of 90 days in any 180-day period from the date of first recorded entry. the agreement provides for visa-free travel for citizens of the european union and saint lucia. the commission has also received comments from the saint lucia authorities, which have provided the commission with a detailed overview of the measures taken to address the concerns raised by saint lucia. in view of the close relationship between the european union and norway, iceland, switzerland and liechtenstein, in particular by virtue of the agreement on the association of those countries with the implementation, application and development of the schengen acquis, i invite those countries to conclude bilateral agreements on the short-stay visa waiver with saint lucia containing provisions similar to those contained in this agreement.
written. ‒ i support the abolition of visas for short stays for saint lucian citizens within the european union, with the exception of ireland and the united kingdom. i believe that this decision will enhance eu-island cooperation and foster exchange and development, which is why i supported this proposal. citizens of my country, croatia, can already travel to saint lucia without a visa, which is why it seems appropriate to make the same possible for citizens of this country. i hope that the eu will consistently adhere to the rules of visa reciprocity with third countries that still do not apply the same visa regime to citizens of all 28 member states.
written. i support the proposal for a draft council decision on the conclusion of the agreement between the european union and saint lucia on the short-stay visa waiver. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament and the council adopt a decision on the establishment of a european union agency for fundamental rights (hereinafter 'the agency'). saint lucia is a young country whose economy is based on agriculture and is vulnerable to external shocks. although its economy is small compared to other countries in the region, saint lucia has one of the most favorable conditions for foreign investment and private sector development. saint lucia is a stable democratic state that protects civil and political rights by constitution and is committed to the enhancement of human rights. it has made great strides in gender equality, human trafficking and prostitution. the information shows that the vast majority of visa applications are accepted and that saint lucia does not pose any security risk to the european union. i believe this agreement will deepen relations between the eu and saint lucia and intensify trade and tourism.
written. ‒ i support this amendment to the agreement between the european union and saint lucia, taking into account the recommendation of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs. the commission has also proposed to amend the agreement in order to improve relations between the countries concerned. the abolition of short-stay visas allows citizens to gain new experiences and facilitates the development of mobility. citizens who leave the eu can bring their newfound experience back to their home country, thereby further improving relations between the eu and the country in question, as well as the situation in their own country. and they indirectly promote the european union in their own country.
written. regulation (eu) no 509/2014 of the european parliament and of the council amended regulation (ec) no 539/2001. it defines a list of 19 countries, including saint lucia, whose nationals are exempt from the visa requirement. the visa waiver covers all categories of persons (ordinary, diplomatic, official and special passport holders) whose purpose of travel does not involve the pursuit of a paid activity. the agreement provides for the possibility for citizens of the european union and the citizens of saint lucia to stay without a visa in the territory of the other contracting party for a maximum period of 90 days in any 180-day period. i support the council regulation on the short-stay visa waiver between the european union and saint lucia with a view to further developing friendly relations between the contracting parties and in the desire to facilitate travel by ensuring visa-free entry and short-stay for its citizens.
written. ‒ i supported the agreement between the eu and saint lucia on the short-stay visa waiver resulting from the work of the joint parliamentary group of the european union and the african, caribbean and pacific group of states, as also pointed out by the rapporteur, demonstrating that visa waiver would, inter alia, facilitate cooperation and the presence of acp parliamentarians at joint meetings for members of the european parliament. the commission notes that saint lucia has a long history of providing services to the public, and that the commission has not been able to verify that the services provided by saint lucia are in fact provided by the public authorities. the commission therefore concluded that the union industry was not in a position to benefit from the measures in force. the conditions for economic development are obvious, because investment will be safer and trade conditions more favourable. in addition, the benefits of visa liberalisation with the schengen countries are also greater stability and security in terms of development. that's why i voted yes.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the draft legislative resolution of the european parliament on the draft council decision on the conclusion, on behalf of the european union, of the agreement between the european union and saint vincent and the grenadines on the short-stay visa waiver, given that saint vincent and the grenadines has made positive progress in socioeconomic indicators in recent years. the natural disasters have seriously damaged the country, especially in economic terms, i.e. in the export of agricultural products and in the field of tourism. however, the macroeconomic policies adopted have boosted international trade, boosted tourism, and promoted social development. the commission shall, by means of implementing acts, lay down the rules on the application of this regulation and the rules on the application of the delegated and implementing acts referred to in article 7 of this regulation. i believe that the agreement will certainly contribute to this, and i therefore support this recommendation.
written. ‒ an agreement between the european union and saint vincent and the grenadines on the short-stay visa waiver has been concluded. the agreement provides for a visa-free regime for citizens of the european union and saint vincent and the grenadines and for the possibility of a stay of up to 90 days in any 180-day period on the territory of the union and saint vincent and the grenadines. i supported the report by ms marije gabriel because the agreement was concluded and signed in accordance with a council decision and requires the consent of the european parliament to enter into force, and for the sake of better relations and easier travel.
written. ‒ i support the agreement between the european union and the state of saint vincent and the grenadines on the short-stay visa waiver. i welcome the further development of friendly relations between the european union and the state of saint vincent and the grenadines. i am pleased that the visa waiver covers all categories of persons wishing to travel and stay without a visa for a short period of time, up to a maximum of 90 days in any 180-day period from the date of first recorded entry. the agreement provides for visa-free travel for citizens of the european union and for citizens of saint vincent and the grenadines to the territory of the other contracting party. the commission shall be assisted by the european parliament and the council. in view of the close relationship between the european union and norway, iceland, switzerland and liechtenstein, in particular by virtue of the agreement concerning the association of those countries with the implementation, application and development of the schengen acquis, i invite those countries to conclude bilateral agreements on the short-stay visa waiver with saint vincent and the grenadines containing provisions similar to those contained in this agreement.
written. ‒ i support the abolition of visas for short stays for citizens of saint vincent and the grenadines within the european union, with the exception of ireland and the united kingdom. i believe that this decision will enhance eu-island cooperation and foster exchange and development, which is why i supported this proposal. citizens of my country, croatia, can already travel to saint vincent and the grenadines without a visa, which is why it seems appropriate to make the same possible for citizens of this country. i hope that the eu will consistently adhere to the rules of visa reciprocity with third countries that still do not apply the same visa regime to citizens of all 28 member states.
written. this proposal is firmly linked to the fact that saint vincent and the grenadines is a signatory to the cotonou agreement and is a means to enhance the political dialogue between the european union and saint vincent and the grenadines on the subject of fundamental human rights and freedoms. natural disasters in recent years have significantly affected agriculture and tourism, which are the two main export products of saint vincent and the grenadines. however, thanks to recent excellent macroeconomic developments, as well as socioeconomic progress, economic developments are once again positive. in the political context, the constitution of saint vincent and the grenadines strongly protects the civil and political rights of citizens and, like the european union, successfully implements democratic processes. the information shows that the vast majority of visa applications are accepted and that saint vincent and the grenadines does not pose any security risk to the european union. for all the reasons i have given, i support the recommendation.
written. ‒ i support this amendment to the agreement between the european union and saint vincent and the grenadines, taking into account the recommendation of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs. the commission has also proposed to amend the agreement in order to improve relations between the countries concerned. the abolition of short-stay visas allows citizens to gain new experiences and facilitates the development of mobility. citizens who leave the eu can bring their newfound experience back to their home country, thereby further improving relations between the eu and the country in question, as well as the situation in their own country. and they indirectly promote the european union in their own country.
written. regulation (eu) no 509/2014 of the european parliament and of the council amended regulation (ec) no 539/2001. it defines a list of 19 countries, including saint vincent and the grenadines, whose nationals are exempt from the visa requirement. the visa waiver covers all categories of persons (ordinary, diplomatic, official and special passport holders) whose purpose of travel does not involve the pursuit of a paid activity. the eu shall ensure that the visa is issued in accordance with the provisions of the schengen acquis and the schengen acquis acquis is applied in full. the citizens of saint vincent and the grenadines shall be entitled to stay in the territory of the member states applying the schengen acquis in full for a maximum of 90 days in any 180-day period. i support the council regulation on the short-stay visa waiver between the european union and saint vincent and the grenadines with a view to further developing friendly relations between the contracting parties and with a view to facilitating travel by ensuring visa-free entry and short-stay for its citizens.
written. ‒ the work of the acp-eu joint parliamentary group is reflected in further useful requests, such as the request for the adoption by this house of the agreement on the short-stay visa waiver between the eu and saint vincent and the grenadines. such mutual agreements should serve development objectives and, above all, national and regional interests. saint vincent and the grenadines is a democratic country that has made significant progress in protecting fundamental rights and freedoms, such as freedom of expression and political rights, since gaining independence in 1979. in order to achieve further progress and to help less developed countries to eradicate poverty, to promote economic growth, but also to eliminate discrimination on grounds of sexual orientation, gender identity or religion, intervention by developed countries is necessary, as reflected in this example of cooperation. to make further progress, it is necessary to implement projects that combine the resources of the less developed countries with those of the developed ones. i therefore believe that the visa waiver agreement can contribute to the progress of this less developed country and boost its economic growth, and i voted in favour.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the draft legislative resolution of the european parliament on the draft council decision on the conclusion, on behalf of the european union, of the agreement between the european union and the united arab emirates on the short-stay visa waiver, as it strengthens relations between the union and the uae, but also with other arab countries. the commission has also received comments from the united arab emirates (uae) on the application of the visa waiver scheme to the uae. the united arab emirates is classified as a high-income industrialised country with the european union as its first economic partner, but further efforts are needed in the area of respect for human rights. i therefore believe that this agreement can further enhance bilateral relations and stabilise the macro-region concerned.
written. ‒ an agreement between the european union and the united arab emirates on the short-stay visa waiver has been concluded. the agreement provides for a visa-free regime for citizens of the european union and the united arab emirates and the possibility to travel for a maximum period of 90 days in any 180-day period. i supported the report by ms marije gabriel because the agreement was concluded and signed in accordance with a council decision and requires the consent of the european parliament to enter into force, and for the sake of better relations and easier travel.
written. ‒ i support the agreement between the european union and the united arab emirates on the short-stay visa waiver. i welcome the further development of friendly relations between the european union and the united arab emirates. i am pleased that the visa waiver covers all categories of persons wishing to travel and stay without a visa for a short period of time, up to a maximum of 90 days in any 180-day period from the date of first recorded entry. the agreement provides for visa-free travel for citizens of the european union and citizens of the united arab emirates to the territory of the other contracting party. this also provides numerous opportunities not only for uae citizens but also for eu citizens through new business opportunities and facilitated travel. in view of the close relationship between the european union and norway, iceland, switzerland and liechtenstein, in particular by virtue of the agreement concerning the association of those countries with the implementation, application and development of the schengen acquis, i invite those countries to conclude bilateral agreements on the short-stay visa waiver with the united arab emirates containing provisions similar to those contained in this agreement.
written. ‒ i support the conclusion of an agreement between the united arab emirates and the european union allowing uae citizens to enter the european union without a visa, with the exception of the united kingdom and ireland. citizens of my country, croatia, can already travel to the united arab emirates without a visa, and it is appropriate that their citizens can travel in the same way. i hope that the eu will consistently implement a policy of visa reciprocity towards third countries that do not apply the same visa regime to citizens of all 28 member states.
written. i support the recommendation of mep gabriel on the draft council decision on the conclusion of the agreement between the european union and the united arab emirates on the short-stay visa waiver. the united arab emirates is a long-standing economic and cultural partner of the european union and the signing of this agreement would allow for a better dialogue on human rights and freedoms. the main reason for uae citizens avoiding travel to the european union is the costly and time-consuming process of obtaining a visa. last year, only 7.4 percent of all visa applications were rejected, which is twice as many as in 2010. by accepting this proposal, i believe that the eu's revenues from tourism would be significantly increased. on the other hand, more than 150 000 eu citizens live and work in the uae and i believe that visa-free travel would make it easier for these people and their families to move between the two sides. the adoption of this proposal should be seen as a way to facilitate dialogue on a number of key issues, such as human rights, immigrant workers' rights, women's rights and freedom of speech.
written. ‒ i support this amendment to the agreement between the european union and the uae, taking into account the recommendation of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs. the commission has also proposed to amend the agreement in order to improve relations between the countries concerned. the abolition of short-stay visas allows citizens to gain new experiences and facilitates the development of mobility. citizens who leave the eu can bring their newfound experience back to their home country, thereby further improving relations between the eu and the country in question, as well as the situation in their own country. and they indirectly promote the european union in their own country.
written. regulation (eu) no 509/2014 of the european parliament and of the council amended regulation (ec) no 539/2001. it defines a list of 19 countries, including the united arab emirates, whose nationals are exempt from the visa requirement. the visa waiver covers all categories of persons (ordinary, diplomatic, official and special passport holders) whose purpose of travel does not involve the pursuit of a paid activity. the united arab emirates is a member of the european union and is a signatory to the united nations convention on the law of the sea. the citizens of the united arab emirates may also stay in the territory of the member states applying the schengen acquis in full for a maximum of 90 days in any 180-day period. i support the council regulation on the short-stay visa waiver between the european union and the united arab emirates with a view to further developing friendly relations between the contracting parties and the desire to facilitate travel by ensuring visa-free entry and short-stay for their citizens.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the agreement on the abolition of short-stay visas between the eu and the united arab emirates. the eu-uae agreement provides for the exemption of the republic of croatia from the requirement to obtain a visa for its nationals before entering the uae, as of march 2014, but the eu-uae agreement will allow nationals of both signatory parties to stay in each other's territory for a period of 90 days in any 180-day period. the republic of croatia shall apply the provisions of this agreement to its territory in full. it is important to note that the european union is the main trading partner of the united arab emirates. the united arab emirates is the largest travel destination in the world, with a total of over 1 million tourists per year. the commission notes that the measure is not intended to provide a guarantee for the beneficiaries of the aid. given the geographical location of the uae in the arabian peninsula and the proximity of countries representing sources of migration flows, proactive political, economic and social surveillance is necessary to avoid undesirable consequences that the agreement may have.
written. ‒ i support this report which proposes that the european parliament should give a positive opinion on the implementation of the council decision approving the memorandum of understanding between the office for harmonization in the internal market and eurojust. the purpose of the memorandum is to foster cooperation between eurojust and ohim in accordance with their respective mandates.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the draft legislative resolution of the european parliament on the draft council implementing decision authorising eurojust to conclude a memorandum of understanding between the office for harmonization in the internal market (ohim) and eurojust, as this strengthens cooperation between ohim and eurojust in line with their activities. the memorandum also takes account of data protection and provides for the way in which any disputes are resolved. strategic cooperation in these areas is essential to achieve common objectives and to achieve certain mutual benefits, and i therefore support this report.
written. ‒ the purpose of the memorandum of understanding is to foster cooperation between eurojust and the office for harmonization in the internal market in accordance with the mandates. i supported the report by mr kostas chrysogonos, mep, approving the conclusion of the memorandum in order to further develop strategic cooperation that will result in the achievement of the objectives of the office for harmonization in the internal market and eurojust.
written. ‒ it is known that the office for harmonization in the internal market (ohim) is the official body that carries out procedures relating to community trade marks and that the same adopted rules on intellectual property apply to all member states of the european union. as such, in its domain, ohim also represents the european community agency and the industrial property office, with the main task of the technical function in the registration of the said industrial property right. eurojust is a single body established solely for the purpose of promoting and improving the coordination of investigations and prosecutions between the judicial authorities of the member states responsible for serious cross-border or organised crime. the fight against serious forms of cross-border and organised crime, including fraud and money laundering, are challenges for the eu, and they can also be linked to the use of community trade marks. the memorandum of understanding seeks to foster further cooperation between the two important eu bodies, thereby significantly facilitating access to data and any other necessary action in response to the above mentioned issues. this memorandum of understanding formalises the relationship and cooperation between the above bodies and allows for the necessary coordination of the activities of both bodies to be improved. that is why i supported this report.
written. ‒ i support the positive opinion on the adoption of the memorandum of understanding (mou) between the office for harmonization in the internal market and eurojust. the mou will encourage cooperation between the two institutions without in any way compromising the protection of personal data, as the mou does not involve the exchange of operational information and identifiable person data. it is also significant and positive that any dispute between the two parties regarding the interpretation of the mou will be resolved through consultation between both parties and not through arbitration by a third party.
written. i support the report by my colleague, mr kostas chrysogonos, on the draft council implementing decision authorising eurojust to conclude a memorandum of understanding between the office for harmonization in the internal market and eurojust. the parties shall cooperate in the exchange of information and experience in the field of the prevention and management of conflicts of interest, including through the exchange of information and experience on the implementation of this memorandum. the commission has also received a request from the goc to amend the terms of the memorandum of understanding to include a reference to the 'customs code' and to amend the 'customs code' to include the 'customs code'. as the purpose of the memorandum of understanding is to enhance cooperation between eurojust and ohim, and as there is a willingness and readiness to develop strategic operations that will help them achieve their respective objectives, i agree to conclude the memorandum of understanding as it will greatly contribute to the better implementation of their tasks.
written. ‒ i have supported this proposal taking into account the judgments of the court of justice of the european union of 16 april 2015 and the report of the committee on legal affairs. the purpose of the memorandum of understanding is to foster cooperation between eurojust and ohim in accordance with their respective mandates. i believe that communication and exchange of information between the office for harmonization in the internal market and eurojust should be improved, so as to allow for a more successful and efficient follow-up.
written. ‒ the draft implementing decision formalises eurojust's conclusion of the memorandum of understanding (mou) between the office for harmonization in the internal market (ohim), for which juri is responsible, and eurojust. the purpose of the memorandum is to foster cooperation between eurojust and the office for harmonisation in the internal market in accordance with their respective mandates. eurojust and ohim agreed to conclude a memorandum because, in the words of recital 6 thereof, they are 'willing and ready to develop strategic cooperation that could help them achieve the respective objectives'. this is a specific implementing measure, which the council would adopt on a proposal from parliament, under the provisions in force before the treaty of lisbon. i support this proposal for a memorandum of understanding between the office for harmonisation in the internal market and eurojust, as i believe that it will promote cooperation between ohim and eurojust and will make it easier to achieve certain objectives such as cooperation between competent authorities, facilitating the implementation of international mutual legal assistance and market harmonisation.
written. ‒ i supported the memorandum of understanding between the office for harmonization in the internal market and eurojust, which aims to strengthen cooperation between the two organisations in accordance with their respective competences so that they can better perform their tasks together. i fully support the emphasis on the need for data protection safeguards, i.e. that the envisaged exchange of information does not involve the transfer of data relating to the identification or identification of a person. in addition, provision has been made that in the event of a major breach, this memorandum may be temporarily suspended for further negotiations and consultations. i consider the decisions taken to be a clear indication of the readiness of both parties to carry out their tasks, and i have therefore voted in favour.
written. ‒ i support this report which deals with the rules on the creation of available own resources based on vat and gni. the commission has also decided to amend the rules to avoid any technical recalculation problems, such as those in 2014 when the recalculation led some member states to provide additional funding to the eu budget.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the draft legislative resolution of the european parliament on the proposal for a council regulation amending the regulation on the methods and procedure for making available traditional own resources and own resources based on vat and gni and on measures to meet cash requirements, as i consider that the own resources system is very complex and needs to be reformed. it is also necessary to ensure the timely payment of the member states' contributions to the union budget and to allow for the reduction of late payments by the commission for the previous year for individual funds. i also consider that the accounting methods for recording contributions to the union budget should be standardised in order to allow member states to compare their contributions and i therefore support this report.
written. ‒ the proposal to amend council regulation (eu) no 609/2014 on the methods and procedure for making available traditional own resources and own resources based on vat and gni and on measures to meet cash requirements are part of the new own resources legislative package to be applied from 2016. it shall also apply retroactively from 1 january 2014. the amended regulation will help to improve transparency by publishing statistical corrections to member states' contributions to the budget of the european union at the beginning of the year and will help to define the amount and the date for payment of the amount. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's macro-financial assistance to the countries of central and eastern europe, in particular through the european neighbourhood instrument (enpi) and the european neighbourhood instrument (enpi). i supported the draft legislative resolution of the european parliament on the proposal for a council regulation amending regulation (eu) no 609/2014.
written. ‒ complementing the existing financial business model by introducing the regulations proposed in this proposal will improve the quality, level and clarity of communication between the commission and the member states on the financial commitments of the two parties. it contains practical arrangements regarding the establishment of own funds, the preservation of supporting documentation, administrative cooperation, the current system of calculation of the gdp base, accounts to be kept for own funds, measurement of the time available and for making adjustments and provisions relating to the management of cash and non-repayable amounts. i support any move that represents a new step towards establishing a high-quality and transparent management of the european union's finances and the relationship between financial institutions and obligations towards the member states. the introduction of this regulation will facilitate the cash operations of the commission and thus eliminate the possibility of illogical developments in relation to the available funds and the obligations of the commission through the various programmes. in addition, this regulation gives greater predictability to the system for member states to know exactly when and how much money they need to pay into the common treasury.
written. ‒ i support giving the commission the right to request a share of the funds from the member states on the basis of vat and gni in order to reduce delays in payment for funds from the previous year and to reduce arrears. in this respect, it is necessary to ensure administrative cooperation, the preservation of the necessary documents, the applicable ratio for the bnd, the time needed for adaptation and management of financial resources, etc. this will greatly facilitate cooperation between the eu institutions and reduce the possibility of conflict over the request for additional funds.
written. i support the report by meps depreza and lewandowski on the amendment of the regulation on the methods and procedure for making available traditional own resources and own resources based on vat and gni and on measures to meet cash requirements. regulation (eu) no 609/2014 is a key instrument of the european union which sets out the main elements of the system, such as the list of own resources and the ceilings on committed and paid-up appropriations. the amendment of this regulation will simplify and make cheaper the operations of the european union. this report proposes amendments such as the exemption from payment of fees and interest on accounts opened by member states on behalf of the commission, for as long as the commission does not need them for payment. the commission will also be able to request member states to pre-account for up to two months in the first quarter of the year the monthly own resources twelfths based on vat and gni for the specific needs of payments from the european agricultural guarantee fund (eagf). the commission will pay less negative interest and make payments to the agencies more quickly as a result of these changes.
written. ‒ i support this report because the proposed changes to the contribution matching method are aimed at avoiding a similar problem to that which occurred in 2014. in the past, all member states have, as a rule, paid into the union budget without major delay the full amount of their gni and vat contributions, despite the crisis and significant fiscal pressures. it is important to have effective rules on the timely payment of member states' contributions to the union budget in order to enable the commission to manage its treasury effectively.
written. ‒ council decision 2014/335/eu, euratom will enter into force at the beginning of 2016. on the same day, council regulation (eu, euratom) no 609/2014 concerning the rules on making available own resources and measures to meet cash requirements entered into force. regulation (eu, euratom) no 609/2014 needs to be revised in the light of the experience gained during the post-2014 alignment. the commission has also proposed to amend the article to ensure that the maximum rate of interest is not exceeded by more than 20% of the amount of the loan. the commission should be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 290 tfeu concerning the establishment of a european data protection supervisor. i support the council's position as i believe that the proposed changes to the method of matching contributions will avoid the problems that occurred in 2014 and will lead to greater transparency.
written. ‒ in september this year, the commission proposed an amendment to the legislative package on own resources agreed in may 2014. the amendments are designed to allow member states sufficient time to adjust their vat and gdp contributions to the eu budget more than they had expected. i support the commission's proposal because i agree with the amendments which give member states more time to thoroughly examine the relevant financial data before making a payment. the commission's task in this case is to inform the member states in january of the payment they are required to make in july. since the commission proposal only concerns amendments to own resources, the council will only consult parliament before taking a final decision. however, parliament is again overstepping its bounds and in a purely procedural report calls for a fundamental reform of the own resources system and the creation of a very confusing system of penalties for late payments. that's why i voted against it.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the motion for a european parliament decision requesting the waiver of the immunity of georgios kyrtsos because it is allegedly a criminal offence committed while mr kyrtsos was the director of two press companies, and it is not connected with the performance of his duties as a member of the european parliament. i believe that the truth of this allegation of non-payment of a portion of the salary of one employee will best be resolved by the competent institutions to the benefit of both parties. it is also important to add that mr. kyrtsos has waived his right to be heard.
written. ‒ georgios kyrtsos is a greek member of the european people's party and vice-chairman of the delegation for relations with the nato parliamentary assembly and a member of the committee on economic and monetary policy and the special committee on taxation decisions and other measures similar in nature or effect. the public prosecutor's office of the supreme court of greece requested the waiver of the immunity of mr kyrtsos's lawyer in order to bring a possible criminal action for allegedly not paying part of the salary of one of his former employees while he was at the head of two newspaper publishing companies. i supported the request to waive the immunity of member georgios kyrtsos as the alleged offence was not related to the performance of his duties as a member of the european parliament.
written. ‒ i respect the rapporteur's recommendation to waive the immunity of mr kyrtsos because, although the prosecution is not related to expressing an opinion or voting in the performance of his duties as a member of the european parliament within the meaning of article 8 of protocol no 7 on the privileges and immunities of the european union, and the alleged offence is clearly not related to the performance of mr kyrtsos' duties as a member of the european parliament, but to his function in the two newspaper publishing companies he headed at the time, there is no reason to assume that the prosecution was initiated with the intention of causing political damage to the member concerned (fumus persecutionis), since it was initiated before mr kyrtsos became a member of the european parliament.
written. ‒ i supported the request for waiver of the immunity of georgios kyrtsos forwarded on 21 july 2015 by the public prosecutor's office of the supreme court of greece in relation to the complaint of the labour inspectorate of eastern attica for non-payment of wages, and published in plenary on 9 september 2015. the prosecutor's office of the supreme court of greece has requested the waiver of the immunity of georgios kyrtsos, member of the european parliament, in relation to a possible prosecution for an alleged offence that clearly has nothing to do with georgios kyrtsos' function as a member of the european parliament, but is primarily related to his former position as director of two news agencies.
the committee on legal affairs adopted the evelyn regner report and unanimously recommended that the european parliament should waive the immunity of georgios kyrtsos (epp, el). the office of the prosecutor at the supreme court of greece has requested the waiver of the immunity of mr kyrtsos, member of the european parliament, in relation to possible legal action in relation to the alleged offence. the indictment against kyrtsos relates to the non-payment of part of the 2013 salary to a former employee of two journalistic publishing houses, of which georgios kyrtsos was the manager at the time. noting that the alleged infringement has no connection with the office of georgios kyrtsos as a member of the european parliament, but is linked to his former position as manager of two news houses, the members consider that the prosecution is not concerned with expressing views or voting in the performance of the duties of a member of the european parliament on matters within the meaning of article 8 of protocol no 7 on the privileges and immunities of the european union. in the light of those considerations, i support the recommendation of the committee on legal affairs that parliament should waive the immunity of georgios kyrtsos in order to establish whether he has committed the offence for which he is accused and since the committee has found that there is no reason to suspect that the intention of the criminal proceedings is to prejudice the activity (fumus persecutionis) of the member state, given that the prosecution was initiated years before the member state took office.
written. ‒ a member of the european parliament, mr georgios kyrtsos, has been accused by his former employee who claims that the said member did not pay him part of the salary to which he was entitled. the complaint concerns part of the 2013 salary of two newspaper printing companies where mr kyrtsos was a director during the period in question. as the alleged event took place at a time when mr kyrtsos had not yet started to exercise his mandate as a member of the european parliament, and as the said event had no correlation with his exercise of his duties as a member of the european parliament, i voted in accordance with the juri committee's decision, i.e. for the waiver of immunity.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the motion for a european parliament decision on the request for waiver of the immunity of stelios kouloglou, which would waive his parliamentary immunity, as it concerns an alleged offence committed before mr kouloglou became a member of the european parliament. in addition, mr. kouloglou has waived his right to be heard, and it is not a matter of expressing an opinion or voting in the exercise of his office. therefore, i support this proposal.
‒ stelios kouloglou is a greek member of the conference club of the united european left and nordic green left, vice-chair of the committee on development and a member of the committee on transport and tourism. the office of the prosecutor of the supreme court of greece has requested the waiver of the immunity of the representative for the possible initiation of criminal proceedings, since he is accused of defamation and insulting prison staff in patras in 2010. i supported the request to waive the immunity of the greek mp stelios kouloglou, because the act for which he is accused has no connection with his activities in the european parliament.
written. ‒ i respect the rapporteur's recommendation to waive the immunity of mr stelios kouloglou, because although the prosecution is not related to expressing an opinion or voting in the performance of his duties as a member of the european parliament within the meaning of article 8 of protocol no 7 on the privileges and immunities of the european union, and the alleged offence is clearly not related to the performance of mr kouloglou's duties as a member of the european parliament, but to his function as a journalist, mainly reporting for television, there is no reason to assume that the prosecution was initiated with the intention of causing political damage to the member concerned (persecutionusfumis) because it was initiated before mr kouloglou became a member of the european parliament.
written. in order to ensure the credibility of meps as representatives of eu citizens, it is important that their parliamentary immunity serve exclusively as an instrument of protection against politically motivated persecution. the purpose of parliamentary immunity is never to place members above the law, but to serve their unhindered and independent functioning. the report on the request for waiver of immunity of stelios kouloglou states that kouloglou is accused of defamation and insulting prison staff in patras. the charges relate to statements about the integrity of certain prison staff in patras that stelios kouloglou allegedly made to the media in 2010, when he was mainly reporting for television as a journalist. the office of the prosecutor of the supreme court of greece has therefore requested the waiver of the parliamentary immunity of the member of the european parliament, mr stelios kouloglou, due to the possible initiation of criminal proceedings. the alleged offence has nothing to do with stelios kouloglou's duties as a member of the european parliament, but concerns his former function as a television reporter. as this prosecution case is not related to the expression of an opinion or vote of the member concerned in the european parliament in the exercise of his duties within the meaning of article 8 of protocol no 7 on the privileges and immunities of the european union, i support this report.
written. ‒ i supported the request for the waiver of the parliamentary immunity of stelios kouloglou, sent on 7 august 2015 by the office of the prosecutor of the supreme court of greece in relation to the charges of insult and defamation, and published in the plenary session of 9 september 2015. the alleged offence has nothing to do with stelios kouloglou's duties as a member of the european parliament, but concerns his former function as a television reporter. the case of prosecution is not connected with the expression of an opinion or the voting of the member concerned in the european parliament in the performance of his duties within the meaning of article 8 of protocol no 7 on the privileges and immunities of the european union.
‒ on 7 august 2015, the office of the prosecutor of the supreme court of greece requested the waiver of the parliamentary immunity of the member of the european parliament, mr stelios kouloglou. the request was made in view of the possible initiation of criminal proceedings on charges of insult and defamation against prison staff in patras, when as a journalist he mainly reported for television. since article 62 of the constitution of the hellenic republic provides that members of parliament may not be criminally prosecuted, arrested, imprisoned or otherwise deprived of their liberty during their term of office without the prior consent of parliament, parliament called on the members to express their views on the question of the waiver of immunity. i support the motion in the first reading to waive the parliamentary immunity and privileges of representative stelios kouloglou, because i believe that the supreme court of greece must conduct an investigation and determine whether a criminal offence of insult and defamation has been committed.
written. ‒ member of the european parliament, mr stelios kouloglou, has been charged with defamation of prison staff in the city of patras. the indictment relates to statements allegedly made by the said representative to the media in 2010 regarding the integrity of certain members of the prison staff in patras. at the same time, mr kouloglou worked as a journalist, mainly in television. as the statement given by the member to the media took place before he had started to serve as a member of the european parliament and as the event in question was not in any way connected with his service in the european parliament, i voted in accordance with the juri committee's decision, i.e. for the waiver of immunity.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a decision of the european parliament and of the council on the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund, in accordance with point 13 of the interinstitutional agreement of 2 december 2013 between the european parliament, the council and the commission on budgetary discipline, on cooperation in budgetary matters and on sound financial management, submitted by finland, following the declaration of a surplus of 1 603 workers in the 69th edf, i believe that the european globalisation adjustment fund should be mobilised as soon as possible and work towards reintegrating workers back into the labour market. the conditions laid down in article 4 (1) (b) of the egf regulation are fulfilled and finland is therefore entitled to a financial contribution of 2 623 200 eur. world trends and globalisation have led to serious difficulties in some member states, and in this regard i believe that the european union should have adequate mechanisms in place to mitigate the consequences of such situations and to help the affected regions to cope with the challenges of the future. their countries.
written. ‒ i supported the report by mep marc zanni to secure funding from the european globalisation adjustment fund for the surplus of workers in the it sector in finland. although this industry is growing, production in europe is falling because of countries like china and taiwan that are providing cheaper labor and lower costs. in june this year, finland requested the mobilisation of the fund to the tune of eur 2.6 million to help 1,603 dismissed workers. the amount of assigned revenue in accordance with article 21 (3) of the financial regulation is estimated at eur 100000.
written. ‒ the finnish economy has been hit hard by the development of the ict sector in countries with a low labour force and a liberal and deregulated labour law system. the combination of such labour market conditions and easy access to cheap raw materials has enabled foreign companies to position themselves rapidly on the world market. as a consequence, job losses occur in countries whose labour laws or dependence on raw materials cause higher costs of doing business. the ict sector in finland has been hit hard by the closure of nokia, and the cumulative decline in the number of ict employees is a concern. i support this request for disbursement of the european globalisation adjustment fund, as it concerns 1 603 workers and the amount requested is eur 2 623 000. the allowance of eur 1 636 per worker can help with the short-term adjustment to the new living situation, and in the total amount available to the fund, the total amount represents a minimum part. in this way we show solidarity with finland and especially with its people. we must show unity in mutual aid and perseverance in promoting a spirit of togetherness. this case is part of a systemic challenge to adapt the european economy to new global developments, and it is crucial to show unity in the protection of eu citizens throughout the process.
written. ‒ as the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) was established to provide support for workers made redundant and self-employed persons whose activity has ceased as a result of major structural changes in world trade patterns caused by globalisation, the prolonged global financial and economic crisis referred to in regulation (ec) no 546/2009 (3) or the new global financial and economic crisis, and to assist them in their reintegration into the labour market, i support the decision to mobilise the egf from the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2015 to provide a total of eur 4 372 000 in commitment and payment appropriations for the purpose of reintegration into the labour market for up to 1 693 workers in 60 enterprises in finland. member states should show solidarity with each other where necessary and the commission should assist them in doing so in order to ensure that the funds from this fund are spent in the fairest and most transparent way.
written. i agree with the report by mr marc zanni on the proposal for a decision of the european parliament and of the council on the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund submitted by finland. in the european union, the recession has hit the information and communication sector hard, and in particular the electronics industry in finland, where a large number of it companies have moved their operations to countries with cheaper labour costs, and a large number of finnish citizens have lost their jobs as a result. as many as 1 603 finnish citizens lost their jobs in the computer programming sector in the period from 30 july 2014 to 30 april 2015. the reason for the redundancies is the massive relocation of businesses operating in the sector to countries with lower labour costs such as china and india. in the helsinki region alone, 737 workers were laid off. therefore, the intervention criteria are met and finland has acquired the right to use the globalisation adjustment fund. the proposed measures include the encouragement of entrepreneurship through grants for business start-ups, the subsidisation of wage-based work and free training to reduce unemployment in the sector.
written. ‒ i supported this proposal because the european union has put in place legislative and budgetary instruments to provide additional support to workers who have been affected by the consequences of major structural changes in world trade flows or the consequences of the global financial and economic crisis and to help them reintegrate into the labour market. finland submitted an application egf/2015/005 fi/computer programming for a financial contribution from the egf, following the declaration of 1 603 redundant workers in 69 enterprises operating under nace revision 2 division 62 (computer programming, consultancy and related services), and since the application meets the eligibility criteria set out in the egf regulation, i supported it.
written. ‒ finland submitted an application to egf/2015/005 fi/computer programming on 12 june 2015 and the application was rejected. the request concerns 1 603 workers declared redundant in the economic sector classified under nace rev. 2 section 62 (computer programming, consultancy and related activities). the number of employees in the finnish labour force has decreased by more than 50% since the beginning of the year. in total 69 companies made redundancies, with microsoft mobile oy making up almost half of the total number of redundancies (778). the commission will present to the european parliament and to the council, at the same time as it submits this proposal for a decision to mobilise the egf, a proposal for a transfer to the corresponding budget line of eur 2 623 200. i support this proposal because i consider it essential to provide support for workers who have been declared redundant and self-employed persons who have ceased their activity. the egf should, therefore, be mobilised in order to help those workers re-enter the labour market.
written. ‒ i voted against finland's request to mobilise the european globalisation adjustment fund in the computer programming sector for a total amount of eur 4.3 million, of which eur 2.6 million should come from the fund. while i support in principle the idea of taking measures to help economic growth and job creation, i do not think that the european globalisation adjustment fund is a valid instrument for achieving these objectives. although the sector is growing globally, throughout finland there were 1,603 redundancies in various companies. in europe, as in finland, the computer sector is declining due to the relocation of companies and services to non-european countries such as china, india and taiwan. this clearly shows that the proposed measures cannot help finland in the long term to reduce the unemployment rate or to recover the sector - the same can only be achieved by reducing bureaucratic obstacles and tax burdens.
written. - i voted against the efdd amendment because it rejects the council's position. as i fully support the recommendation for the second reading on the council position at first reading with a view to the adoption of a regulation of the parliament and of the council amending the council regulation on the community trade mark and the commission regulation implementing the council regulation on the community trade mark and repealing the commission regulation on the fees payable to the office for harmonization in the internal market (trade marks and designs) by ms wikström, the amendment is not acceptable to me.
written. ‒ in addition to the protection of a trade mark at national level, the european union offers all the citizens and legal persons of its member states the possibility of protecting a community trade mark. the european union trade mark is a trade mark of the community of 28 member states which is valid in the european union as a whole and whose scope cannot be geographically limited to any one of the member states. the simultaneous protection of a product in all the countries of the european union by a single registration of a trade mark is the first and greatest advantage of obtaining a community trade mark. the community trade mark also brings many benefits in trade and the transfer of goods it reduces costs, increases speed and legal certainty. given the importance of registering a community trade mark, i agree that the procedures for filing an application for registration should be streamlined in order to make it easier for applicants and shorten the registration process, which now takes too long. i support this report with amendments that help to adapt terminology and reduce legal uncertainty, and i consider it necessary to inform citizens further about the possibilities and benefits of registering a community trade mark.
written. ‒ the amendment of the community trade mark regulation will allow further progress in the fight against counterfeiting of products and a higher level of protection of consumer rights, public health and safety. at the same time, the risk of the trade mark having a negative impact on diverse commercial interests and needs has been removed and the easier transport of generic medicines from the union to developing countries has been ensured. i support these amendments because they aim to stimulate economic growth and innovation through a more accessible and efficient trademark registration system by simplifying and clarifying regulations and encouraging greater cooperation at national and european level.
written. i support the recommendation for second reading on the council position at first reading with a view to the adoption of a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending council regulation (ec) no 207/2009 on the community trade mark and commission regulation (ec) no 2868/95 implementing council regulation (ec) no 40/94 on the community trade mark and repealing commission regulation (ec) no 2869/95 on the fees payable to the office for harmonization in the internal market (trade marks and designs) of ms wikström. the european union trade mark serves to protect intellectual property rights of individuals and companies exclusively at the level of the european union as a whole. the objective of this proposal is to modernise the obsolete provisions of council regulation (ec) no 207/2009 on the community trade mark and thereby simplify the filing and registration of eu trade marks, to address key financial balance issues within the eu trade mark system, to enhance innovation by improving the accessibility of the trade mark system in europe and to increase its efficiency and effectiveness for businesses in the context of reducing costs and complexity and increasing speed, achieving greater legal certainty and better protection against counterfeiting.
written. ‒ i have supported the draft legislative resolution of the european parliament on the community trade mark and commission regulation (ec) no 2868/95 implementing council regulation (ec) no 40/94 on the community trade mark and repealing commission regulation (ec) no 2869/95 on the fees payable to the office for harmonization in the internal market (trade marks and designs), taking into account the recommendation for the second reading of the committee on legal affairs.
written. ‒ the objectives of the proposed regulation are to simplify the procedures for the application and registration of eu trade marks and to modernise and improve the existing provisions by amending obsolete provisions, improving legal certainty by clarifying provisions and removing ambiguities. the objective of the revision is to align regulation no 207/2009 with the treaty of lisbon. it is necessary to establish an appropriate framework for the cooperation between the office for harmonization in the internal market (ohim) and the national offices in order to promote convergence of practices and the development of common tools. the commission has also concluded that the goods in transit are not subject to the prohibition of the right to prevent entry into the eu if the declarant or the holder of the goods can prove before the competent court that the trade mark holder is not entitled to prohibit the placing of the goods on the market of the country of destination. i voted against the motion to reject the council's position.
written. ‒ i voted against the eu trade mark report, which aims to harmonise the trade mark registration systems in all member states and to ensure the coexistence and complementarity of the eu and member states' trade mark registration systems. while i believe that the european commission's initiative to modernise existing decisions is justified, and that it is an attempt to make the stamp system more efficient in terms of reducing costs and simplifying procedures, and to increase speed, predictability and legal certainty, i believe that the proposal also contains many controversial issues that are unfavourable to the member states. first of all, i believe that the surplus of the budget of the office for harmonization in the internal market should be passed on to the national intellectual property offices in order to develop and promote the trade mark system in the member states. furthermore, i consider that in some member states the proposed changes would not lead to a reduction in overall costs, but on the contrary - to high costs of initiating objection, appeal or revocation procedures, and those costs would be highly disadvantageous for undertakings. that's why i didn't support this report.
written. - i voted against the efdd amendment because it rejects the council's position. as i fully support the recommendation for a second reading on the council's position at first reading with a view to the adoption of a directive of the european parliament and of the council on the approximation of the laws of the member states relating to trade marks by mrs wikström, i do not find the amendment acceptable.
written. ‒ i support the adoption of this proposal as it introduces clearer ways of facilitating the registration, management and protection of trade marks on the european market. this is done by converging national systems towards the fulfilment of several of the main objectives of the european union and the common market, namely the promotion of growth, competitiveness and competitiveness. the european union is taking this step to tackle a widespread market challenge, namely the suppression of the trade in pirated goods. the clear declaration of the product according to all the necessary specifications (geographical origin, production methods, traditional characteristics) raises the protection of consumer rights to a higher level. it is necessary to encourage greater approximation of national trade mark laws and procedures with a view to making them more consistent with the common system of trade marks by adding appropriate rules and the necessary categories of product labelling, reducing the cost of registration of products, introducing a trade mark information system at union level and achieving greater legal certainty for producers and consumers.
written. ‒ in addition to the protection of a trade mark before the national offices of the member states of the european union, it is possible to protect a community trade mark. a community trade mark (or community trade mark, abbreviated ctm) is valid in all member states of the european union and the registration of such a trade mark is carried out by the office for harmonization in the internal market of the european union (ohim), which has its seat in alicante, spain. a community trade mark is valid in the european union as a whole and it is not possible to restrict the scope of protection geographically to some of the member states. in addition, the trade mark is often a cheaper alternative to protection based on, for example, the origin of the product. the amendment of the community trade mark regulation will allow further progress in the fight against counterfeiting of products and a higher level of protection of consumer rights, public health and safety. i support these amendments because they aim to stimulate economic growth and innovation through a more accessible and efficient trademark registration system by simplifying and clarifying regulations and encouraging greater cooperation at national and european level.
written. ‒ i supported this proposal because the act was adopted in line with the position of the council and the committee on legal affairs. it is important to modernise and correct the existing fees of the current directive by amending obsolete fees, increasing legal certainty and explaining patent rights in terms of scope and limitations. this will correct some of the ambiguities that now exist and facilitate further interpretation.
written. ‒ the objectives are to modernise and improve the current provisions of directive 2008/95 by amending obsolete provisions to take account of the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon, thereby improving legal certainty and clarifying the rights attached to the trade mark in terms of their scope and limitations. it is necessary to achieve better harmonisation of national legislation on the trade mark and related procedures in order to bring them more closely into line with the eu trade mark system. the office of the member states and the office for harmonization in the internal market (ohim) should facilitate cooperation to promote the harmonisation of practices and the development of common tools by establishing a legal basis for such cooperation. i voted against the motion to reject the council's position.
written. ‒ i supported the report on the laws of the member states relating to trade marks because i believe that coexistence and complementarity between the trade mark systems in the european union and in the member states should be ensured. i strongly support increasing consumer protection and the protection of rightholders for the sale of small consignments over the internet, and the proposed provisions will modernise and improve the existing provisions. in particular, i consider that this will increase legal certainty and clarity of the scope and limitations of the legislation on the trade mark system and should facilitate cooperation and coordination between the offices of the member states and the european union in this area. since i believe that this simplification and harmonisation of laws and practices could make a major contribution to the competitiveness of european union enterprises, i voted in favour of this report.
written. ‒ i support the report on the control and enforcement system applicable to the north-east atlantic fisheries. the proposal seeks to complement the north-east atlantic fisheries regulation with a view to modernising and advancing the overall process.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the draft legislative resolution of the european parliament on the proposal for a regulation of the parliament and of the council amending the regulation on a system of control and enforcement applicable in the area covered by the convention on future multilateral cooperation in the north-east atlantic fisheries, as it implements the transfer of the recommendations adopted under the neafc right to the eu. in this context, i fully support efforts to conserve and optimise fisheries resources in the north-east atlantic area in order to contribute to the environment, society, growth and sustainability. i therefore consider it of particular importance to prevent and eliminate illegal, unregulated and unreported fishing practices and i support this report accordingly.
‒ the convention on future multilateral cooperation in the north-east atlantic fisheries, to which the european union is a party, aims to ensure the long-term conservation and optimum exploitation of fisheries resources in the north-east atlantic region, providing sustainable, environmental and social benefits. the commission shall be assisted by the committee established by article 15 of this agreement. regulation (eu) no 1236/2010 transposes into union law the control and enforcement system scheme established by the convention. i supported this legislative resolution because the proposed amendment to regulation 1236/2010/eu transposes into european law new recommendations necessary for the efficient management of fisheries resources in the north atlantic, which are necessary for better cooperation between competent authorities and fishermen. the commission has also received comments from the united kingdom on the application of the new rules on the electronic exchange of data. the notification of surveillance of foreign fishing vessels by national authorities in ports has been adapted to the transition from the previous system based on written reports to a modern web-based application managed by the neafc secretariat.
written. ‒ i support the incorporation of the northeast atlantic fisheries commission's recommendations into the union's regulatory framework with a view to the long-term conservation and optimal use of fish stocks in the northeast, and with a view to achieving sustainability, environmental protection and other societal benefits. the main changes concern the adaptation of certain competences and regulations to make the fight against illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing more effective, as well as changes to the transport and reporting procedures.
written. i support the report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending regulation (eu) no 1236/2010 of the european parliament and of the council on the control and enforcement regime applicable in the area covered by the convention on future multilateral cooperation in the north-east atlantic fisheries, as proposed by ole christensen. i consider this report to be positive because the measures envisaged by this amendment will ensure better long-term conservation and optimum exploitation of fisheries resources in the north-east atlantic, with lasting results in terms of environmental and social aspects.
written. ‒ i support this proposal because i believe it is important to promote and constantly improve multilateral cooperation, including the convention on cooperation in the north-east atlantic fisheries. i support the proposed changes because they will improve cooperation between the european union and the countries of the north-east atlantic with a large fishery stock. i also see the digitalisation of equipment and electronic reporting as a positive change, which will improve environmental and social efficiency. i believe that this proposal will improve the control and enforcement of the laws relating to fisheries in that area.
‒ the european union is a contracting party to the convention on future multilateral cooperation in the north-east atlantic fisheries, which aims to conserve and optimise the use of the north-east atlantic fisheries resources in the long term, thereby contributing to sustainable development, environmental protection and local community development. in order to ensure the application of the convention and the recommendations of the north east atlantic fisheries commission (neafc), control and enforcement measures may be adopted for fishing activities in that fishery. the control and enforcement system shall contain such measures and shall apply to all vessels used or intended to be used to carry out fishing activities in the areas defined in the convention. i support the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending regulation (eu) no 1236/2010 of the european parliament and of the council on the control and enforcement system applicable in the convention area, as i consider that the amendment of this regulation will establish certain specific control measures to monitor fishing activities in the convention area and complement the control measures provided for in council regulation (ec) no 1224/2009 and council regulation (ec) no 1005/2008 establishing a community system to prevent, deter and eliminate illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing.
written. ‒ i supported the proposal to transpose into european union law the various measures covered by the convention on future multilateral cooperation in the north-east atlantic fisheries. those measures are directly applicable to the member states as they were adopted by the north-east atlantic fisheries commission, of which the european union is a member. the commission considers that the proposed measures to protect fishery resources through landing and transhipment measures, inspections at sea and breaches of procedures, surveillance of fishing vessels flying the flag of the other contracting party and through measures to promote compliance by non-contracting party fishing vessels are possible, as they will provide sustainable economic, social and environmental benefits. the member states concerned by these measures are the united kingdom, ireland, the netherlands, belgium, denmark, germany, sweden, france, spain and portugal, and some of the main commercial species for fishing in the north-east atlantic are anchovy, cod, saithe, mackerel, herring, as well as a number of deep-sea species for which this regulation provides an additional legal basis.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the draft legislative resolution of the european parliament on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending council regulation (ec) no 1215/2009 introducing exceptional trade measures for countries and territories participating in or linked to the european union's stabilisation and association process and suspending its application with regard to bosnia and herzegovina, given that bih has not yet accepted the adjustment of trade preferences granted under the interim agreement to take account of the traditional preferential trade between croatia and bosnia and herzegovina under the central european free trade agreement (cefta). as a result, the croatian economy, in the changed circumstances created by eu accession, has millions of losses. the eu and bih have agreed to continue to apply the trade preferences provided for in the stabilisation and association agreement and the interim agreement, and to continue to apply them in the future. the eu and bih have agreed to extend the transitional arrangements for the application of the trade preferences to bih, which are set out in the interim agreement.
written. ‒ the exchange of goods between the eu and the western balkan countries is agreed in the stabilisation and association agreements. the european commission proposal concerns the extension of the preferential trade regime until the end of 2020 in order to further support bih's integration into the eu and thus ensure its political and economic stability. i have supported the report of mr bettini and the amendments that are attached. croatia strongly advocates the european path of bosnia and herzegovina, however bih must respect international agreements and warnings of the commission and take into account as soon as possible croatia's membership in the eu and enable a duty-free regime with the republic of croatia.
written. ‒ i support the suspension of the application of the special trade measures in respect of bosnia and herzegovina due to the fact that it is necessary for bosnia and herzegovina to adapt its methodology for the clearing of traditional trade to the european union. the eu has also provided support to the implementation of the eu strategy for the development of the bih, which aims to strengthen the capacity of bih to respond to the challenges of the global financial crisis. the commission considers that the fact that the commission has not provided any evidence that the measures in question are necessary to restore the viability of the union industry does not imply that the measures in question are imputable to the state. although this measure affects the economy of bosnia and herzegovina, but also the european union, it is necessary to work on further agreements that will establish a different system of preferences for traditional trade. the parties agree to cooperate in the implementation of the interim agreement and to cooperate in the implementation of the agreement. i hope that this will encourage the bosnian authorities to accept the adjustment of trade preferences granted under the interim agreement to take into account the traditional preferential trade between croatia and bosnia and herzegovina under the central european free trade agreement (cefta).
written. ‒ i support the proposal to suspend the extraordinary trade measures with regard to bosnia and herzegovina, which mainly concerned the possibility of duty-free exports of certain food products from bih to the eu, which have been triggered by the refusal of bih to adapt its stabilisation and association agreement (saa) to croatia's accession to the eu, which has been ongoing for two and a half years. by withdrawing from the cefta market, croatia temporarily lost its right to preferential customs duties. the domestic food industry and agriculture, which export 45% of their total production to this market, are the most affected by this provision. the eu membership has changed the export conditions and the 20 most important croatian agri-food products exported to bih in 2014 are subject to a full customs duty rate. as regards statistics, €660 million of eu financial assistance was received by bih in the last budget period (2007 2013) alone, while on the other hand croatia lost €220 million in the first 6 months of eu membership alone due to bih's refusal to adjust its ssp. all other cefta members have already adapted their ssp to croatian eu accession and this is an opportunity for the new authorities in bih to prove their commitment to the european path. croatia had to do the same when slovenia and hungary joined the eu in 2004.
written. i support the report by my colleague goffred maria bettini. i agree with the commission's proposal to extend the autonomous trade measures to countries participating in the eu stabilisation and association process until 31 december 2020. all analyses confirm that preferential trade arrangements strengthen the economies of the applicant countries and encourage an increase in overall trade with the eu. the european union is by far the largest trading partner of the western balkan countries, in terms of imports (72.7%) and exports (81.8%). in this sense, these measures are a continuation of consistent foreign policy efforts to promote the western balkan countries' accession to the eu. the commission has also been asked to provide a report on the implementation of the eu-croatia association agreement, which is currently being negotiated by the eu and the croatian authorities. the commission has also received comments from the bih authorities on the application of the new policy approach. the latest signals from the stabilisation and association council indicating bih's readiness to implement the requested trade adjustments to the ssp, which are an important step towards a credible bih application for eu membership, are encouraging and are being advocated most strongly by croatian meps.
written. ‒ trade between the european union and the western balkan countries has been liberalised by measures under the stabilisation and association agreement (saa) and the interim agreement in the case of bosnia and herzegovina. these unilateral trade measures allow duty-free access to the european union for certain products. i therefore support the extension of trade measures for the western balkan countries, which are both an important economic and integration tool for those countries, with the exception of bosnia and herzegovina. in the case of bih, it is necessary to take into account the accession of croatia to the union and the subsequent need to adapt the interim agreement with bosnia and herzegovina. therefore, i expect that the political leadership of bosnia and herzegovina will soon agree to the interim agreement, and that bosnia and herzegovina will continue to enjoy trade preferences.
written. ‒ the eu's policy towards the western balkan countries is defined in the framework of the stabilisation and association process. in 2008, bih signed the stabilisation and association agreement, agreeing to the conditions for eu membership. the interim agreement on trade and trade-related matters with bosnia and herzegovina has been applied since then, pending the completion of the ratification procedure of the stabilisation and association agreement. council regulation (ec) no 1215/2009 provides for an asymmetric liberalisation of trade between the union and the western balkan countries and territories concerned, granting them exceptional and unlimited duty-free access to the union market for almost all their products until 31 december 2015. it is proposed to extend the duration of regulation (ec) no 1215/2009 until 31 december 2020. i agree with this proposal because i believe that the extension of the regulation would allow sufficient time to align, where necessary, the concessions granted under regulation (ec) no 1215/2009 with those provided for under the saa.
written. ‒ as a representative of croatia, a member state which has a direct link and interest in this legislative proposal of the european commission at first reading, concerning the extension of the duration of the extraordinary trade measures for the western balkans, i have supported this proposal. the extension of the measures is not granted to bosnia and herzegovina, as it is subject to the adaptation of the stabilisation and association agreement to the accession of the republic of croatia to the european union, in the manner already done by the other western balkan states. the commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down the conditions for the participation of the republic of moldova in the work of the european union agency for fundamental rights. the parties agree to cooperate in the implementation of the agreement and to cooperate in the implementation of the agreement.
written. ‒ i voted out of the draft legislative resolution of the european parliament on the draft council implementing decision authorising europol to conclude an agreement on strategic cooperation in the fight against serious crime and terrorism between the united arab emirates and europol, on the grounds that the appropriate europol structure has not yet been established and that this is also the position of the alde group.
written. ‒ there is a need for europol to cooperate with the united arab emirates as, according to europol, the uae is becoming increasingly relevant in the fight against organised crime. i supported the conclusion of this strategic cooperation agreement as it can greatly help to strengthen the fight of the member states of the union against organised crime. the exchange of information and knowledge shall include the exchange of expertise, general reports, the results of strategic analyses, information on criminal proceedings and ways of preventing crime, and the provision of advice and support in specific criminal investigations.
written. ‒ i support the establishment of strategic cooperation in the fight against serious crime and terrorism between the united arab emirates and europol, as this will lead to closer cooperation in tackling asymmetric security challenges. there are clear operational needs for cooperation between the two parties due to the importance of the uae in the fight against organised crime and the fact that the area has become a major hub for economic and financial crime. the proceeds of criminal activity, fraud and money laundering are reinvested in the uae and some of the key criminals in the fraud ring have found sanctuary in the country. this agreement contributes to the fight against financial fraud at international level and forms the basis for strengthening international cooperation in the field of financial investigations and other relevant criminal proceedings. in addition, existing regional threats (terrorism, illicit oil trade, trafficking in human beings, destabilisation of political systems) require a stronger engagement of the eu institutions with a view to stabilising the region and reducing the pressure of challenges on the european continent.
written. ‒ i support the proposal to conclude a strategic cooperation agreement with the united arab emirates, as evidence points to the increasing importance of this country in the fight against organised crime. the exchange of expertise, analysis, information on ongoing investigations, etc. are important elements of international cooperation in the fight against financial fraud. in addition, such an agreement would exclude the exchange of personal data, so that there is no problem with regard to their protection.
written. i support the report by mrs alessandra mussolini on the draft council implementing decision authorising the european police office (europol) to conclude an agreement on strategic cooperation in the fight against serious crime and terrorism between the united arab emirates and europol. the specificity of this strategic agreement is that it excludes the exchange of personal data. the parties shall cooperate in the exchange of information on the implementation of the convention on the prevention and punishment of the crime of genocide and the convention on the prevention and punishment of the crime of genocide. i believe that there is a clear operational need for cooperation between europol and the united arab emirates, particularly because the uae is becoming an increasingly powerful factor in the fight against organised crime. i support this strategic cooperation with the united arab emirates, as it will provide additional support in the fight against financial fraud and contribute to international cooperation in the field of financial fraud and other criminal investigations.
written. ‒ i support this motion for a resolution because i believe that the european union should actively address the issues of serious crime and terrorism and how to prevent them. this strategic cooperation with the united arab emirates enables the european union to obtain the necessary data to combat terrorism and serious crime, while at the same time helping the united arab emirates to prevent terrorism and serious crime on its own territory. i expect that the implementation of this resolution will lead to further cooperation to strengthen the fight against financial fraud and contribute to strengthening international cooperation in the field of financial investigations and other relevant areas.
‒ on 30 november 2009, the council adopted decision (2009/934/jha) establishing the list of third countries (including the united arab emirates) and organisations with which europol concludes agreements. however, the agreement does not include the exchange of personal data, so the issue of data protection is not relevant in this case. the information exchanged shall relate to specialist knowledge, general situation reports, results of strategic analysis, information on criminal investigation procedures, information on crime prevention methods, etc. it has been assessed that there are clear operational needs for europol to cooperate with the united arab emirates in order to strengthen the fight against organised crime. i support the council decision on the conclusion of a strategic cooperation agreement between europol and the united arab emirates, as i consider that, given the cross-border nature of many criminal activities and organised crime groups, there is a need to establish enhanced regional and international cooperation on the basis of which member states' requests for police and judicial cooperation can be better addressed.
written. ‒ i support the europol strategic cooperation agreement with the united arab emirates as it will allow for the exchange of information including specialised knowledge, general situation reports, results of strategic analyses, information on criminal investigations and procedures, information on crime prevention methods, participation in training and trainings, advice and support in individual criminal investigations and many other positive security aspects. since europol was established in 1992 with the aim of preventing and combating international organised crime and terrorism in the european union, and since its core task is precisely to provide support to the national police authorities in individual member states of the union by collecting, analysing and sharing information and coordinating operations, i consider such and similar agreements to be positive steps in the common fight which is indeed of exceptional, sometimes crucial, importance in those segments.
written. ‒ in my work on the consumer committee, i advocate for the highest possible energy efficiency to improve sustainability, but also to create additional benefits for consumers. the possibility to choose an energy operator and to review the state of energy resources is a key priority in my report 'delivering energy to consumers'.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the ep resolution on the initiative 'towards a european energy union', as the eu needs to move forward with its ambitious plan to create an energy union. the european union needs to have energy independence and protect energy security in the face of an unstable geopolitical environment. energy independence is the foundation for preserving the democratic stability and independence of the eu countries. the commission should be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 290 tfeu concerning the establishment of a european energy charter. i agree with the main pillars on which the future of europe's energy strategy should be based, such as ensuring security of energy supply, decarbonisation, long-term economic sustainability and achieving affordable and competitive energy prices. the objectives of the energy union should be aligned with those related to the reduction of harmful climate change. the aim is to achieve energy efficiency and competitiveness, to reduce the price of energy, to increase investment in innovation, to encourage advanced technologies, to pursue renewable energy sources, and to contribute to the competitiveness of the european economy, which is also linked to the employment situation. direct 'benefits' for citizens through the availability of cheaper energy are also important.
written. ‒ i supported the report on the initiative 'towards a european energy union' because we must be aware that rural communities across the eu suffer significant consequences from poor energy connectivity. strengthening the single market and establishing the energy union are eu objectives that will result in more competitive member states and ensure growth and development of the economy. the energy union must be based on a fully connected internal energy market delivering secure, affordable, socially and environmentally responsible energy. such an idea requires a functional and secure power transmission infrastructure. the ultimate goal is to provide sustainable, efficient and equitable access to gas and electricity.
written. ‒ it is known that the eu, but also croatia, depends on energy imports. according to hep, croatia imports 45% of its electricity. the croatian electricity system and the national company hep are obsolete, both technologically and ideologically, and increasingly resemble dinosaurs that will soon become extinct along with the fossil fuels they use. there is a lack of investment, and the little investment that exists is directed again towards further increased dependence on fossil energy imports. according to eurostat, croatia has relatively low household electricity prices and even lower industrial electricity prices. however, this rare and current market advantage for our industry can be jeopardised by bad investments. the commission notes that the aid granted to the croatian nca is limited to the minimum necessary to ensure that the project is carried out in compliance with the requirements of the energy union. investing in renewable sources and in the sector where croatia has the most untapped potential sun can make the national company a guarantor of fair social electricity prices for households in the future. the commission notes that the objective of increasing the interconnection of the electricity system throughout europe to at least 10% allows the placing on the european market of the desired renewable energy produced in croatia, while ensuring the energy self-sufficiency of the country and the conditions for exporting the electricity produced to other parts of the union.
written. ‒ i welcome the strategy of establishing the energy union and the free transfer of energy as a common good. a coordinated and coherent approach at union level will make it easier and faster to achieve our common, rather ambitious energy targets. during this process, we need to take into account the national circumstances of all member states, as well as their potential to implement the necessary reforms, and give them our full support. the energy union can be discussed in many contexts; the context of energy independence, diversification, efficiency and sustainability. but in times of increasing security challenges surrounding the european union, the context of energy security is particularly relevant. i am therefore particularly pleased that three croatian projects have also been included in the european energy security strategy: the lng terminal in krk, the ionian-adriatic pipeline, and the hungarian-croatian reverse stream, cross-border projects with significant impact for the region, but also for europe in general. the political reality is that, in addition to security, energy has become the oxygen for democracy, so it is high time that we upgraded the political integration of the european union to include energy integration. the european union needs an integrated market that is more stable than the price of a barrel of oil.
written. i agree with the report on the initiative 'towards a european energy union' by mr gróbarczyk. the european union is the world's largest energy importer. of the 28 member states, 6 are dependent on only one energy supplier, making them extremely vulnerable. the commission should be able to assess the impact of the proposed measures on the union's energy security and to assess the impact of the measures on the union's energy security. i believe that the eu's energy policy must be aligned with climate policy and i am therefore committed to making the eu more self-sufficient in energy, especially through renewable energy sources, and thus to implementing the plan to reduce greenhouse gas emissions by 80-95% by 2050. according to the european commission, as much as 75% of european housing is energy inefficient and in many situations citizens do not have enough choice of energy supplier. i therefore support structural investments to increase efficiency, such as energy renovation subsidies, which would result in a reduction in demand, and at the same time i call on each member state to correct its legal framework in order to achieve these objectives, with the help and suggestion of the european parliament.
written. ‒ i support this report because the creation of a resilient energy union with an advanced climate policy must be based on the transition to a sustainable and advanced energy system, based on energy efficiency, renewable energy, the optimal use of european energy resources and smart infrastructure. a long-term and stable regulatory framework is needed to achieve economic growth, create jobs and ensure eu leadership in these areas. the energy security strategy should include cost-effective measures to reduce energy demand and equally effective measures to overcome major and immediate disruptions, and should include solidarity and coordination mechanisms to protect and strengthen energy production, smart energy transmission, and distribution and interconnection infrastructure. the union's trade policy should therefore aim at increasing energy security in accordance with article 194 tfeu, diversifying energy sources and reducing dependence on a single external supplier or on a single supply point, while respecting the relevant division of competences established by the treaty.
written. ‒ according to article 194 tfeu, european energy policy ensures the functioning of the energy market, ensures security of energy supply, promotes energy efficiency and energy saving, and the development of renewable forms of energy, and promotes the interconnection of energy networks. the commission considers that the measures provided for in this regulation are in accordance with the opinion of the committee established by article 15 (1) of regulation (eu) no 525/2014. in may 2014, the commission stated in its energy security strategy [8] that the eu is still vulnerable to external energy shocks and called on policy makers at national and eu levels to clarify for citizens the choices related to reducing our dependence on certain fuels, energy suppliers and supply routes. the energy union is based on that strategy. i support the initiative 'towards a european energy union' because the spirit of solidarity in energy matters is explicitly mentioned in the treaty and is at the heart of the energy union. joint approaches in the field of energy can empower all parts of the european union. member states, transmission system operators, the energy industry and all other stakeholders should cooperate to ensure a high level of energy security for european citizens and businesses.
written. ‒ i welcome the efforts of the rapporteur of this own-initiative report, which seeks to give parliament's position on the future perspective of the energy union. i agree with the provision that it should be based on a common energy market which should be supported, if necessary, by a solidarity mechanism towards those member states of the union which suffer from the dominance of one energy supplier. i also support the view that the european union's energy strategy should be based on the full exploitation of all available energy resources, which would ultimately contribute to the objective of reducing the union's dependence on coal. i am satisfied with the final draft text, which does not contain an attempt by certain groups within parliament to increase the union's 2030 targets for renewable energy sources by making them legally binding for all member states. i also welcome the compromise amendment which stresses the concern about the impact of shale gas on the environment, but does not call for a ban on shale gas extraction, nor for new union legislation in this area. i also support the report's objectives of giving the union member states more flexibility in deciding how to reduce their emissions. that's why i voted yes.
written. ‒ cheaper energy for consumers, more transparent billing and more choice are key determinants i support.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the european parliament's report on achieving the 10% electricity interconnection target - preparing the european electricity network for 2020 as the physical interconnection of the energy network between eu member states is one of the fundamental processes for creating the energy union. the commission shall be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 264 concerning the establishment of a european data protection supervisor. the commission considers that the measures provided for in this decision are in accordance with the opinion of the committee established by article 15 (1) of regulation (eu) no 182/2011. in addition to the 2020 plan to achieve 10% interconnection, steps and targets for further connecting the eu electricity network beyond 2020 need to be clearly prepared now, taking into account the different levels of connectivity that exist in different eu regions. it is particularly important to note that this report also supports the inclusion of the western balkan countries which are not yet eu members.
written. ‒ greater energy efficiency and sustainable development of the energy sector, which will ensure savings, renewable energy and the functioning of the internal market, are priorities for the european union and all its institutions. a stable, independent and competitive energy system will also result in job creation, innovation and economic growth and development. the development of such a system requires a higher level of electricity connectivity, smart grids and a new market model. twelve member states, mainly those on the eu's external borders, have not achieved the 10% electricity connectivity target by 2020. the european electricity system is going through a period of change and we are awaiting concrete legislative proposals announced by the commission for the second half of 2016. i supported the report by mr józef gróbarczyk as an integrated internal electricity market would facilitate electricity trade and reduce electricity price volatility for the benefit of citizens. it is estimated that by 2030 european citizens could save between eur 12 billion and eur 40 billion a year.
written. ‒ it is known that the eu, but also croatia, depends on energy imports. according to hep, croatia imports 45% of its electricity. the croatian electricity system and the national company hep are obsolete, both technologically and ideologically, and increasingly resemble dinosaurs that will soon become extinct along with the fossil fuels they use. there is a lack of investment, and the little investment that exists is directed again towards further increased dependence on fossil energy imports. according to eurostat, croatia has relatively low household electricity prices and even lower industrial electricity prices. however, this rare and current market advantage for our industry can be jeopardised by bad investments. the commission notes that the cypriot authorities have not provided any evidence that the cypriot authorities have not provided any evidence that the cypriot state has not provided any evidence that the cypriot state has not provided any evidence that the cypriot state has not provided any evidence that the cypriot state has not provided any evidence that the cypriot state has not provided any evidence that the cypriot state has not provided any evidence that the cypriot state has not provided any evidence that the cypriot state has not provided any evidence that the cypriot state has provided any evidence that the cypriot state has not provided any evidence that the cypriot state has provided any evidence that the cypriot state has not provided any evidence that the cypriot state has provided any evidence that the cypriot state has provided any evidence that the cypriot state has provided any evidence that the cypriot state has provided any evidence that the cypriot state has provided any evidence that the cypriot state has not provided any evidence. investing in renewable sources and in the sector where croatia has the most untapped potential sun can make the national company a guarantor of fair social electricity prices for households in the future. the commission notes that the objective of increasing the interconnection of the electricity system throughout europe to at least 10% allows the placing on the european market of the desired renewable energy produced in croatia, while ensuring the energy self-sufficiency of the country and the conditions for exporting the electricity produced to other parts of the union.
written. ‒ i welcome all that has been done in the area of achieving greater electricity interconnection as it is a prerequisite for achieving an integrated internal market in electricity and thus a prerequisite for achieving the eu's climate objectives, increasing energy efficiency, strengthening the sustainability of the economy, creating a more resilient european grid and facilitating electricity trade. however, many member states have still not reached the 10% target, which is particularly problematic given that experts are already warning that much more ambitious targets will need to be set in the coming period. in addition, frequent congestion in transmission networks needs to be addressed in order to ensure maximum use of existing infrastructures and to ensure a quality distribution network. in addition, the whole process of cooperation in the field of electricity should be made more transparent through greater involvement of parliament and the definition of priority projects of common interest. the commission should also be able to provide the necessary information to the member states and the commission on the implementation of the union's energy policy.
written. i agree with the report on the achievement of the 10% electricity interconnection target preparation of the european electricity grid for 2020 by mr erikson. the commission should be able to assess the compatibility of the aid with the internal market on the basis of the criteria set out in article 107 (3) (c) of the treaty. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's energy policy and its implementation in the medium term. i would point out that the benefit must be provided to end-users, not just to wholesale buyers. the commission considers that the aid is compatible with the internal market if it is granted through state resources. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's energy policy and its implementation in the member states. for these reasons, i am in favour of achieving the 10% electricity interconnection target by 2020. by achieving this goal, it is estimated that citizens could save between $12 billion and $40 billion by 2030.
written. ‒ i support this report because renewable energy, increased energy efficiency and a sustainable energy mix leading to energy savings and an internal energy market with free flow of energy are important ways of achieving a stable, secure, independent, inclusive, transparent and competitive energy system for the eu, creating high quality jobs and achieving better outcomes in a sustainable, future-oriented economy. the benefits of a significant increase in european network interconnection go far beyond the economic and geopolitical dimensions. it is a strategic principle that should result in a more resilient and stronger network, better prepared for all kinds of shifts and disruptions. the commission will also assess the impact of the new rules on the market for electricity from renewable sources.
written. ‒ the 10% target was originally set in 2002 on the basis of the installed electricity generation capacity that existed at that time. the objective of 10% electricity interconnection to be achieved by 2020 is an important and significant step in the right direction. a fully integrated internal market in electricity would facilitate trade in electricity and balancing services. the commission should be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 290 tfeu concerning the conditions for the participation of third countries in union programmes in the field of energy. the commission estimates that the eur 35 billion needed to reach the 10% target in all member states by 2020 is sufficient. i support the establishment of a european electricity grid by 2020 because i believe it will contribute to achieving our climate goals, including the eu's goal of taking the lead in renewable energy.
‒ the european council in 2014 called on member states to achieve interconnection of at least 10% of their installed electricity generation capacity by 2020, meaning that each member state should have electricity cables that allow at least 10% of the electricity produced by their power plants to be transported within its borders to neighbouring countries. the commission has also taken into account the fact that the union market for electricity is a highly competitive market, with a high level of demand and a high level of supply. this report has been supported by me because it goes in the direction of this council proposal, while correctly detecting the fact that the 10% target is quite arbitrary and questionable in the light of the specific circumstances in each individual member state of the union. the report emphasises the importance of regional cooperation (e.g. the adriatic-ionian gas pipeline) as a crucial element for strengthening the union's energy connectivity, which i fully agree with. the positive element is also the call for a shortening of the permitting procedure, which often causes significant delays in the creation and development of important projects.
written. ‒ i support this report on the implementation of the european microfinance facility. microfinance is not only an economic instrument, but above all a social policy instrument. the commission shall be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 26 to supplement this regulation by laying down detailed rules for the application of this regulation. however, i must express my scepticism and say that this document comes a few years too late in the procedure.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the european parliament's motion for a resolution on the implementation of the european progress microfinance facility, as it aims to increase the availability and accessibility of microfinance for people who have lost their jobs, are at risk of losing their jobs or have difficulty entering the labour market. the programme is important in that it provides opportunities for groups of citizens who are particularly vulnerable and marginalised in terms of employment because of their situation. the commission should also be able to provide information on the impact of the financial instruments on the financial markets, including the impact of the financial instruments on the financial markets, and on the impact of the financial instruments on the financial markets. it is necessary to further investigate data on the results of the programme, its results, in particular on newly created jobs, and to create additional mechanisms to make the programme more widely used, more accessible and less rejected.
written. ‒ progress is a significant and effective instrument for achieving the eu's employment and social policy objectives under the 2020 strategy, but it is currently present in only 22 member states. the reasons for incomplete coverage are the different levels of economic development, market interest rates and the current legislative framework in each of the member states. i supported the report by mr sven schulze and the recommendation to continue the implementation of progress, because i believe that micro-credit in europe should be seen primarily as a social policy instrument, with which people in difficult social situations are given the opportunity to use other available mechanisms.
written. ‒ micro-credit is often the only way for small businesses to get start-up capital or finance to develop and create additional jobs. the importance of financial instruments such as progress is therefore particularly great and i think we need to be more flexible in assessing their success only through the lens of the long-term viability of the companies financed by them. the commission should also be able to provide the necessary information to the member states to enable them to assess the effectiveness of the measures taken. the commission should also be able to provide the necessary information to the member states and the commission on the progress made in implementing the union's policy on the environment. the report welcomes the fact that the instrument needs to take into account the added value of projects in regions with severe and persistent natural or demographic handicaps, especially in the current situation of a microfinance market gap and limited availability of microfinance. the commission should also be able to provide the necessary information to the member states and the commission on the implementation of the union's macro-financial assistance.
written. ‒ i support the continuation of the microfinance programme, which is particularly important for vulnerable groups and acts as a social policy instrument in terms of reducing unemployment and social exclusion. at the same time, it is important to ensure non-financial assistance, transparency in the operations of microcredit providers and a quality data collection system. the european programme for employment and social innovation incorporates the importance of microfinance and social entrepreneurship and addresses the shortcomings of the previous programme, making it worth supporting.
written. i agree with the report on the implementation of the progress microfinance facility by mr schulze. the progress microfinance facility was established in 2010 by the european commission to support microfinance through various instruments, in particular guarantees and funded instruments. the commission shall be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 264 concerning the establishment of a european data protection supervisor. the commission shall be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 290 concerning the establishment of a european data protection supervisor. the objective of this project is to increase the availability and accessibility of microfinance to persons who have lost or are at risk of losing their jobs or have difficulty entering the labour market, as well as to persons facing social exclusion or disadvantaged persons who are at a disadvantage in terms of access to the conventional credit market and who wish to set up or develop their own businesses, including self-employment. the commission shall be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 264 concerning the conditions for the participation of third countries in union programmes. for the reasons set out above, i consider this instrument to be of the utmost importance, especially in times of crisis, in enabling unemployed vulnerable persons to access finance who would otherwise not have access to conventional sources of credit.
written. ‒ i support the implementation of this decision as the objective of the instrument is to improve the capacity of intermediaries to increase the number of potential activities to generate employment through quality jobs, growth and social inclusion in local communities. there are indications that microfinance could be one of the elements helping businesses to transition from the grey economy to business with declared economic activity status. i would stress the importance of a financial instrument, such as the financial crisis instrument, to help new businesses to open, to promote new employment and to ensure access to finance for the unemployed, disadvantaged people and micro-enterprises, and to mitigate the risks borne by micro-finance intermediaries. i also call on the commission to step up the promotion of the instrument and to provide more information on it and on how it can be accessed.
the european microfinance facility progress 2020 was established with the aim of increasing the availability and accessibility of microfinance for micro-enterprises and the social economy. the aim is to take advantage of the facility in 22 eu member states to disburse 46 000 micro-loans by 2020, representing an amount of approximately eur 500 million. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's macro-financial assistance in the context of the union's macro-financial assistance to the countries of central and eastern europe, in particular the countries of the former soviet union, the former soviet union and the former soviet union. microfinance in this way can lift people out of poverty and unemployment, give them dignity and increase cohesion in communities by improving social inclusion and reducing social inequalities. i fully support the council's position at first reading and stress the importance of the instrument, especially in times of crisis, as it allows easier access to finance for the unemployed and vulnerable. the commission should also be able to use the information provided by the member states to support the commission's efforts to improve the quality of the information provided by the member states.
written. ‒ i supported the report on the implementation of the european progress microfinance facility, which aims to facilitate access to loans of less than eur 25 000 to start up or support micro-enterprises. i consider this instrument to be extremely useful in view of its visible positive effects on the local economy, and i strongly support its focus on groups that are otherwise under-represented in the economy, such as the long-term unemployed, people on welfare and people living in disadvantaged situations in rural areas. although this instrument does not mean direct financing of entrepreneurs, it does provide microfinance services through intermediaries and has granted 13 252 microcredits worth eur 124,6 million, and i believe that this report will further improve access to microfinance for potentially excluded users. finally, i voted in favour of this report because the progress microfinance facility helps to ensure that the unemployed are returned to the labour market, that their entrepreneurial potential is realised, that they acquire new skills through training and mentoring and, ultimately, that dignity is provided.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the european parliament's motion for a resolution on the new common fisheries policy (cfp): structure of technical measures and multiannual plans, given that almost no progress has been made in legislative proposals on technical measures and multiannual plans since 2009 and that the effectiveness of the adopted multiannual plans has been uneven in the period 2002-2009; that the implementation of current innovations improving the selectivity of fishing gear is often hampered by legislation and that regionalisation can contribute to simplifying and better understanding of the rules and must ensure that technical measures are adapted to the specific requirements of each fishery area and each fishery pool, thereby allowing for flexibility and rapid response to needs. the commission should be able to assess the impact of the new rules on the fishing opportunities and the fishing opportunities offered by the union fleet in the north sea, in particular by examining the impact of the new rules on the fishing opportunities and the fishing opportunities offered by the union fleet in the north sea. in the context of regionalisation, decisions on minimum conservation reference sizes for each species should be based on scientific knowledge. furthermore, the needs of the local population, the sustainability of coastal communities, the notion and role of small-scale fisheries should be clearly defined.
written. ‒ the future technical measures, which are the main instruments for achieving the objectives of the eu's common fisheries policy, must be simple in order to be easily understood by fishermen. they should be adapted as far as possible to the specific needs of each fishery and each region. in addition, provisions common to all regions or unlikely to change must be adopted by the eu legislature under the ordinary legislative procedure. i supported the report by mr gabriele mato because improving fisheries regulation is an important factor in increasing gdp in countries with the conditions for its development, such as croatia. i think that fishermen should be more involved in the decision-making process on technical measures.
written. ‒ we are aware of the data on the reaching of the limits of the sustainable biological capacity in the seas and the data that the continuation of overfishing threatens the survival of certain commercial species and thus the sustainable yield of the fisheries sector. the 2013 reform of the common fisheries policy requires the achievement of maximum sustainable yields through the application of an ecosystem-based approach. now, this may sound complicated, but the simple fact is that we can't catch and hunt more than what can be naturally replenished. the commission has also concluded that the aid is compatible with the internal market. like agricultural policy, which is also conducted without sufficient consultation with farmers, fisheries policy must be better communicated among stakeholders. the commission shall be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 26 to amend this regulation by supplementing it with new technical measures. it is equally necessary to exempt from unnecessary restrictions the occasional small-scale coastal fisheries traditionally used throughout the mediterranean, in particular where those restrictions cannot be justified by the ecosystem approach framework. this is why it is essential that fishermen are much more involved in the process of creating measures and making decisions.
written. ‒ the complexity of technical measures to date is largely the result of different legislative procedures, but also of political compromises, which have created unjustifiable regulatory differences in different maritime areas. in this respect, the effort to harmonise technical rules while respecting certain regional differences is commendable. i support the proposed structure of technical measures in the fisheries policy, whereby three levels of co-decision and a fourth level as a regionalised level would be established, i.e. whereby the first three levels would have common centralised rules and a set of specific technical rules adopted by co-decision alongside one level of rules that apply regionally. the effectiveness of multiannual plans should also be enhanced, in particular through stronger mechanisms for monitoring fisheries activities. this can be achieved by insisting on scientific criteria while allowing flexibility in relation to stock adjustments.
written. i support the report by mr mato on the new common fisheries policy. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the cfp, in particular by monitoring the implementation of the cfp in the member states and by monitoring the implementation of the cfp in the union. as one of the objectives of the common fisheries policy is to restore and maintain stocks of harvested species above levels that can lead to maximum sustainable yield through the application of an ecosystem-based and selectivity-based approach, i agree that technical measures and multiannual plans are among the main means to achieve these objectives. i am of the opinion that the multiannual plans should set a general objective that can be achieved in an administrative and scientific framework and that the multiannual plans should include long-term stable yields in accordance with the best available scientific advice, which should be reflected in the annual council decisions on fishing opportunities.
written. ‒ i support this bill because the sustainability of fish stocks is a prerequisite for the future of the fishing industry. it is necessary to establish a harmonised set of technical measures, taking into account the specific characteristics of each of them, as decisions at union level can have an important impact on the recovery of fish stocks and the protection of ecosystems and on the sustainable management of common fish stocks. the multiannual plans should constitute a solid and lasting framework for fisheries management and should be based on the best and most up-to-date scientific and socioeconomic knowledge recognised by experts.
the 2013 reform of the common fisheries policy (cfp) called, among other things, for the achievement of the maximum sustainable yield by applying an ecosystem-based approach. technical measures and multiannual plans have become the main conservation instruments to achieve this goal. the future technical measures must be simple and clear so that they can be easily understood by fishermen. the multiannual plans seek to set management targets in the context of individual biomass farming and deadly fisheries. the majority of the eleven multiannual plans currently in place concern total allowable catches (tacs). following the 2013 reform of the common fisheries policy, the multiannual plans must include a maximum sustainable yield objective and a deadline for achieving it. i support the european parliament's motion for a resolution on the new common fisheries policy because it includes multiannual plans and technical measures, of which regionalization or regional cooperation in relation to conservation measures is an important element. the multiannual plans provide an appropriate framework for the adoption and implementation of specific technical measures in the context of regionalisation, and this report calls for greater involvement of fishermen in the decision-making process.
written. ‒ this report to the pech committee, of which i am a full member, is a precursor to the expected european commission regulation on technical measures and multiannual management plans; it is therefore of particular importance. the commission's proposal is expected in february 2016 and should contain a very wide range of rules on how, where and when fishermen in the european union can fish. the rules are established for all european seas, but they vary from sea to sea according to regional needs and specificities. the two main things that this regulation intends to revise within the cfp are the landing obligation and regionalisation and accordingly this report calls for the commission's legislative proposal to implement the objectives of the cfp through improved selectivity, minimising waste and the negative impact of fishing on the environment, simplifying existing rules and providing accurate scientific data on impact procedures, with which i fully agree as i consider all of the above necessary and necessary. i also fully agree with the call to actively involve fishermen in the decision-making process and to give them easier access to the european fisheries fund accordingly. however, as a representative from croatia, i consider the most important part of the report to be the call for technical measures to be determined in accordance with regional specificities and needs and therefore the report has received my full support.
madam president, i would like to welcome this package today. it is clear that we have not managed our external borders well and by coordinating our policies we can certainly get better protection of our borders and therefore it is very important that we support this. however, i would also have one question. i want a clear division of powers on this matter. member states will have to delegate some of their responsibilities, but they should retain sovereignty, as you yourself said in the introduction. but we understand that nothing will happen without the cooperation of the agency and the member states. it is clear that frontex did not have the capacity and that a european response is needed to this european issue. but when it comes to specific countries, like croatia, where i come from, like bulgaria and romania, we want a european agreement, we want to work together, but we are not yet part of schengen. and so i want to answer the question in your closing speech, what can we do to speed up the entry of croatia and these other countries into the schengen area? otherwise we will have really second-class and first-class countries within the european space. so we support, but we still want to speed up our entry into schengen, and that's why i'm asking you to help answer this question.
madam president, i strongly support the commission's intention to strengthen frontex because we must protect our external borders. this initiative is welcome and i believe that we all here must support the strengthening of our external borders, controls and everything that the commission proposes. however, today i must draw attention to a very unpleasant fact that is happening between our member states and that is on the border line between the republic of slovenia and the republic of croatia. the slovenian government's intention to build a "wire fence" from the mure to the sea is truly unacceptable. i am glad that many citizens of slovenia and citizens of croatia want to jointly oppose such an initiative. it is unlikely that such a wire fence would be erected where migrants practically cannot and will not pass, and this is primarily in the area of istria and the gorsky kotar area. i ask you to help and enable the citizens to live more peacefully and safely.
the question he raised by raising his blue card. mr javor, you said that we should act now and i agree with you completely, but do you agree with me that this action should be directed precisely at preventing attempts to build new coal-fired power plants in the european union? for example, in croatia, one such coal-fired power plant is being built. you know this project and i ask you do you agree with me that we must stop it?
member of the commission.– mr president, i would like to thank all members who have made very valuable contributions. i do not intend to resign at this moment, because i have to keep on working to deliver all the legislation needed to fulfil our 40% target. but when we say that paris is a historic moment, it is not only because we have a binding agreement. i will make some comments on that later on. we have probably not acknowledged the importance of the 187 indcs on the table, covering 97% of global emissions. what that shows is an unstoppable movement towards sustainable energy, towards renewables, and towards energy efficiency all over the world. if you examine the indcs, most of them were renewables, energy efficiency and some forest management. that is a big amount. from the smallest island in the pacific to the biggest developed country. that is a major change. in that context, we have very clear work to do: sustainable energy and the phasing-out of fossil fuel subsidies. it is very clear that this is what we have to do. we now have to implement the legislation within the european union. we have a 40% target which is, by a long way, the most ambitious indc on the table at the moment. you can analyse all of them. ours is the most ambitious. we also have the right policies, so we have to implement them. mr eickhout, a good friend, told me now we have to raise the level of ambition. firstly, i intend to implement the necessary legislation with ambition. in the impact assessments, we will introduce the 30-35-40% scenarios – for sure. (interjection from the floor)is 35 not better? (interjection from the floor) i do not mind, let us go for it. we want to analyse where we are in terms of cost efficiency for reaching ambitious targets. i am for transparency and ambition, but we should also know what is going to happen. in their decisions, the cop decided to convene a facilitative dialogue among parties in 2018 in order to take stock. i think that date is really important, not only for the stock-taking. on that day, the intergovernmental panel on climate change will provide a special report on the impact of 1.5°c and related global greenhouse gas emission pathways. then we will have very clear steering from the ipcc panel in their stock-taking exercise. that date is a crucial date because on that date, the entire world – including the european union – must decide if they are going to raise the level of ambition. we have to be prepared for that. so let us make a good impact assessment, let us implement better legislation and let us go to that stock-taking exercise with the necessary ambition. we have many cops and we try to tell our friends that everybody must raise their level of ambition. but there must also be a level playing field. some people said it here. we will be the leaders, but we want all the others to go along too. we also want china to be ambitious – not in 2030, but much sooner. secondly, the nature of the agreement: some people say this is not a binding agreement. this agreement has all the elements of a binding agreement: the long-term goal, the stock-taking process, and the transparency and accounting rules. the problem with this agreement was with the united states and binding commitments. we spent a whole year discussing them. we have two options: to take strictly binding commitments and the united states – 12% of global emissions – out of the agreement. that is one possibility. the other is to have a universal agreement. the formula that we have is that all parties have a legally binding obligation to prepare, communicate and maintain a mitigation contribution. that is absolutely binding. each party must also pursue domestic mitigation missions with the aim of achieving the objectives of the contribution. combined with robust transparency and accountability provisions, this outcome will provide a solid basis for a fully inclusive regime. it will also address the need for internationally legally binding obligations and provide some flexibility to secure swift united states participation through an executive text. it is not perfect, for sure, but it is quite different from having an agreement without the united states. we need universal agreement. let me say something about aviation. this was a very hard topic. we have established all kinds of alliances, but we did not find the same level of support in aviation as for these topics, and there was a lot of direct opposition from some parties. we tried until saturday in the morning to get aviation inside, but we did not succeed. in an international negotiation, you never get 100%, but i can assure you that we were trying until the last meeting. nevertheless, even if there is not a reference to these two sectors, it is very clear that the ambitious global target we have – well below 1.5ºc – means that all sectors and all countries have to contribute. it is a certainty that they have to contribute. now 2016 will be a key year for these two sectors to show leadership, and for the icao and imo to deliver credible outcomes. we will remain very actively involved throughout the year in pressing for a solution in icao for a global marketplace. we will do our best, and we will try to win the same alliances and some other different alliances in order to reach this outcome, in 2016. i take the comments made by mr eickhout on this topic very seriously. this is a complex topic, mainly because if you take aviation at the moment, when i say that indcs cover 97% of emissions, 1.5 is international transport emissions. that is today, because they are rising exponentially. the other sectors are coming down, so the percentage in the future of the maritime and aviation sectors will be enormous, and we will establish clear rules on monitoring, verification and reducing emissions. the activity we do in other sectors will be meaningless. the commission is very clear on this situation, and we will do our best. finally, i commend our local communities and regions. within the mitigation and adaptation policies, acting at the local level is of the utmost importance. that is why the covenant of mayors, with mayors adapt, is an initiative the commission is going to support. we are going to support the model internationally, because this is a history of success. we have to work with regions, communities and support the european model to the rest of the world. mainly because the urbanisation process is unstoppable across the world, we have to work in the cities. from that, the commission will be very clear when we design our policies. thank you for all of your comments and now starts the real work.
acting president of the council. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, first of all i would like to thank you for these debates and for the many thanks you have sent us as president. i would of course like to pass on this thanks to mrs dieschbourg, who has been very much involved in this process. i also thank you for the fact that we can continue to count on the support of the majority of this great parliament. i will not answer those who still claim that there is no climate change and, above all, that it is not due to our activities. it is true that we are in a democracy and that in a democracy one can claim many things. we can still say that the earth is flat, but i think that those who say that cannot demand that we answer them. then let's get through! as regards what the european union has managed to achieve in paris, it is true that we are not 100% satisfied either, but - i will repeat what many of you have already said - you know better than i do how difficult it is to reach agreements at 28 and you can imagine how much more difficult it is to reach an agreement between 196 parties. i would quote laurent fabius, who said: "if each party comes to paris to get 100% of what it wants, we will have 0% for everyone". we would have liked to have included aviation and shipping, and i can confirm what the commissioner said: we fought to the end, but the opposition was too strong. we also believe that there is a lack of a mid-century target for 2050. we would have liked to have had a more concrete figure than the wording in the agreement, but there was too much opposition to this too. but i can assure you that europe has been a very strong partner and we have passed on many of our ideas without having to cross our red lines. i can compare: i was in copenhagen and lima, and for me, at both conferences, the european union was neither visible nor audible. i was ashamed to be a european! but in paris, believe me, i was proud to be among the europeans who played a very important role. i agree with all those who have said that, of course, this agreement will not solve everything. we agree that an agreement will not change the climate and a treaty will not change the world. it's paper, as some have said. but for the rest, look what's happening. the world is already on the move, there are countries, european countries that are on the move. the conference had not even finished when president hollande himself committed to the 196 parties that he would increase france's contribution, both in terms of reducing emissions and contributing to climate finance. i have just heard the german environment minister say that germany will speed up the phase-out of coal. i am very pleased, as a former mayor of a small town in luxembourg, that the commission has managed to release €60 million to globalise the covenant of mayors. there are millions of people marching, and in the united states, there are cities and states that are marching, and let's not forget the ngos that did a great job before paris and will continue after. i think the signal that is being given to all these actors is there; there's a paradigm shift going on. i don't know if you're familiar with the game of halma, which is to place sticks that you're not supposed to move. so what has been the position of the parties and the states so far? so far, no one has wanted to move because everyone thought that the first one to move would lose. in the future, ladies and gentlemen, the opposite will happen: those who do not act on climate change will lose. i think the european union has always been very ambitious, it has shown the way to others, and i am sure that with your support the european union will not be among those who will be punished by history because they arrived too late. at the end of the discussions, and bearing in mind the atmosphere in paris after mr hollande's hammer blow, i would like to quote the representative of saint lucia who, in his contribution at the end of the conference, said: 'the future looks much better than three weeks ago.
in paris, the final session of the climate conference has made a significant step forward in the fight against climate change and in caring for our planet. 195 countries agreed that serious action was needed in the future to keep the average temperature increase below 2°c above preindustrial levels. the states agreed that this agreement was binding and in accordance with their capabilities and the commitments they had made before the meeting. in fulfilling their commitments, countries also pledged to continue their efforts to keep global temperature rise to well below 1.5°c, reducing the risks and impacts of climate change that are already visible today and causing millions of deaths worldwide. i'm excited to see an agreement, especially because i was personally present at the much-anticipated copenhagen conference, which ultimately failed because the major greenhouse gas producers were unwilling to agree to an agreement. in recent years, the consciousness of the ruling elites has changed due to the damage caused by climate change that has led to the loss of homes for many people and threatened their existence, and they all decided on behalf of their countries to contribute to the achievement of this important paris agreement.
mr president, i congratulate the rapporteurs, colleagues niedermayer and dodds on an excellent report which gives a detailed overview of the problems we face from aggressive tax planning and ingenious tax avoidance on the one hand, but also from non-transparent, often inconsistent profit taxation policies which are subject to interpretation. a disorganized and unclear tax system does not benefit anyone, not the states, not the businesses, least of all the citizens and the growth of the full employment economy we want. we lose 50 to 70 billion euros a year because of tax evasion. it's the funds that are being taken away from innovation, science, new jobs. the report also makes a major contribution to the new measures proposed by colleagues, which will significantly help to avoid unfair tax practices.
mr president, this report is just one in a series of attempts to legalise tax repression at union level and to punish the more enterprising member states which have attracted investors through their incentive tax policies. some in this house seem to forget that the members of the european union are still sovereign states and as such should have the right to create a good environment for investors in their territories through smart tax policies. if we're not rewarding them for that kind of behaviour, which we should be, because europe attracts investment from all over the world, at least we're leaving them alone. tax evasion is a harmful practice that should be punished, but not used as an excuse for a war against business, because it can only lead to a new wave of job cuts and the outflow of capital and brains from europe so that the tax will no longer have anyone to pay.
madam president, my group, myself and i think many other members have been deeply impressed by the words of pope francis in this house when he called for the european union to oppose the ideology of waste, to reach out to people in need, fleeing war and poverty, not to turn its back on them, not to treat them as waste. the report by mr guerrera largely answers that call and gives the european union a credible and effective humanitarian force. i personally would like to see francis' message also followed that we should not throw away even unborn children because they are not guilty of crimes, of rape. and maybe our hearts in europe are too hard to accept that part of the message, but i hope that europe will evolve in that direction. we can and must do better, but i also want to commend mr guerrero for the good suggestions in his report and for the openness to dialogue he has shown in the preparation of the resolution.
written. today we are faced with social and political changes, a large number of war crises, armed conflicts generating the need for humanitarian aid, numerous natural disasters occurring, some of which are indirectly caused by human action. the number of people in need of help has more than doubled since 2004. this year, the number of people in need of humanitarian assistance has exceeded 100 million, while the number of forcibly displaced people has reached almost 60 million. nearly half of the refugees are children. on the other hand, the world has never been richer, there has never been a greater level of knowledge and technological progress. it is absolutely necessary to address the humanitarian crisis, some of which have catastrophic consequences, at the global level and to bring together all those actors who deal with these issues at the highest level. the world humanitarian summit should follow the example of similar gatherings that try to provide answers to the most important problems of humanity, involve world leaders and create permanent mechanisms that should, if not prevent, then at least alleviate the humanitarian problems of a part of humanity. the commission will continue to support the implementation of the un guidelines on the prevention of and management of humanitarian crises and the implementation of the un guidelines on the prevention of and management of humanitarian crises.
the question he raised by raising his blue card. thank you so much for accepting the blue card. mrs. fajon, i want to ask you something very simple. you talk about the need for freedom of movement, about solidarity in europe, about the need to respect our relationships and values. i agree with you that we have a problem with migrants, but do you agree with me that the razor wire that the slovenian government is putting up along the entire border, from mura to the adriatic sea, and especially in that part where you know there will never be migrants, and that is in the area of istria and gorsky kotar, do you really consider that it is completely unnecessary?
mr president, the migration crisis has exposed wide differences in attitudes towards the reception of migrants among member states. it is time to finally bring these attitudes into line so that the crisis can be managed responsibly and effectively. this meeting is an ideal opportunity to reach an agreement that will guarantee coordination and cooperation instead of barbed wire on internal borders. slovenia has arbitrarily put a wire on the border with croatia that has not deterred any migrants, but that is why for days wild animals are being killed en masse and our public is witnessing scenes that are not befitting civilized europe. also, part of that wire is on croatian territory and threatens to become the subject of an interstate dispute that no one needs at this point. an agreement on the management of the migrant crisis at the highest level is therefore essential to maintain peace and stability, because if we continue in this direction, we will soon be undoing all the positive effects of european integration and setting the continent back 20 years.
mr. president, we've said that no country can guarantee its own security alone. yesterday we said that we needed a european answer to a european question. it is true that we are today, with our policies, charting europe's future and we are responsible for what will happen in 2016 and beyond. this morning mr juncker said that the european commission is not a european government, but that when there are challenges and threats, we act as a european government. the fact is that we all need help, that we need to coordinate our policies. we do not want, none of us wants schengen to fail and it is clear that schengen is in danger and therefore we must take measures. however, there are two different criteria in europe, countries of the south and countries of the north, countries of the rich and countries of the poor, countries of the schengen area and countries outside the schengen area. specifically, i come from croatia, which is outside schengen. how can you and do you intend, mr timmermans, to help croatia, bulgaria and romania to enter schengen as soon as possible and to finally know clearly which are the external borders of the european union and which borders are we protecting? then there will be no wires between slovenia and croatia, between two sovereign european countries, then we will not have to make statements about the wire. i believe we will then be able to regulate these matters better. so i'm asking you to allow entry into schengen and other countries as soon as possible.
written. ‒ i voted for the extension of the mandate of the president of the european banking authority (eba) because it allows mr andrei enri to continue the work he has started for a period of five years. in accordance with regulation (eu) no 1093/2010, the board of supervisors of the eba decided to extend the mandate of mr enri after an adequate assessment of his capabilities and performance. i therefore support the positive opinion of the committee on economic and monetary affairs of the european parliament.
written. ‒ i supported the extension of the five-year mandate of the president of the european banking authority (eba), mr andrei enri, recommended by the eba's supervisory board. the eba is an independent body but is accountable to the european parliament, the commission and the council. its main objectives are to maintain financial stability in the eu and to ensure the integrity, efficiency and proper functioning of the banking sector.
written. ‒ taking into account the proposals and views of the eba board of supervisors on the extension of the five-year term of office of the current chairman, mr andré enri, i support the report by mr robert gualtieri. the commission has also received a letter from the italian authorities, which states that the commission has not yet received a reply from the italian authorities. the european banking authority is an independent eu body tasked with ensuring a consistent level of regulation and supervision of the european banking sector. the commission notes that the bank's capital needs are not reflected in the capital needs of the bank. in addition to its responsibilities to the european parliament, the council of the european union and the european commission, the eba's main mission is to provide a set of prudential rules that seek to help create a level playing field and provide a high level of protection for savers, investors and consumers. the importance of the functions carried out by this body requires that a person whose expertise has been verified at several levels be at the helm.
written. ‒ given that the first president of the eba was appointed by the board of supervisors of the eba in 2011 following an open selection procedure for a period of five years in accordance with article 48 (2) of regulation (eu) no 1093/2010 and that article 48 (4) of regulation (eu) no 1093/2010 provides that the board of supervisors of the eba may extend the term of office of the president of the eba once, on a proposal from the supervisor of the eba, i accept the proposal to extend the term of office of mr andrei enrija as president of the eba for a further five years.
written. i support the report by mr robert gualtieri on the extension of the mandate of the chair of the european banking authority, on a proposal from the committee of supervisors of the european banking authority. the first chairperson of the eba was appointed by the board of supervisors of the eba in 2011 following an open selection procedure for a period of five years, while article 48 (4) of regulation (eu) no 1093/2010 provides that the board of supervisors of the eba may extend the term of office of the chairperson of the eba once. taking into account the fact that the committee on economic and monetary affairs held a hearing with mr andrei enri, i consider it justified to extend the mandate of mr andrei enri as president of the eba for a further five years. in accordance with the principle of proportionality, as set out in that article, this decision does not go beyond what is necessary in order to achieve that objective.
written. ‒ i support the extension of the mandate of mr andrei enrichi as president of the european banking agency as on 17 november 2015 the committee on economic and monetary affairs held a hearing with mr andrei enrichi, the current president of the eba, where he made an introductory statement and then satisfactorily answered the questions of the members of the committee.
‒ the european banking authority (eba) was established on 24 november 2010 on the basis of article 48 (4) of regulation (eu) no 1093/2010 on a proposal from the european parliament and the council. the first president of the eba was appointed by the board of supervisors of the eba in 2011 following an open selection procedure for a period of five years. since article 48 (4) of regulation (eu) no 1093/2010 provides that the board of supervisors of the eba may extend the term of office of the president of the eba once, on the basis of the above, on 8 september 2015 the board of supervisors of the eba proposed to extend the term of office of mr andrei enria, the current president of the eba, for a further five years. i support the european parliament's proposal for a decision at first reading to extend the mandate of mr andrei enriadis as president of the eba for a second five-year term, as he has demonstrated in his work to date the commitment and the level of expertise required to do the job. in addition, as it is a relatively new body, continuity in the form of an extension of the mandate opens up the prospect of a consistent implementation and achievement of the objectives set within the framework.
written. ‒ i voted to extend the mandate of andrei enri, the current chairman of the european banking authority (eba), as proposed by the eba's committee of supervisors. in particular, i consider that the body in question is in a position to assess, in direct contact with the chairman, his qualifications and capacity to perform that function, since he is responsible for preparing the work of the committee and chairing the meetings of the committee of the management board. i believe that the members of the european parliament should confirm another mandate to enria, as it is clear that the committee of supervisors considers him to be the most suitable candidate and has full confidence in his work to create an effective framework for the european union's single banking market. in addition, if he fails to discharge his duties effectively, he may be dismissed by the european parliament following a decision of the committee of supervisors.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the european parliament's proposal for a decision to extend the mandate of the president of the european insurance and occupational pensions authority (eiopa) because i believe that mr bernardin's work to date has justified another five-year mandate at the head of eiopa. the commission has also received a request from the european parliament and the council to extend the mandate of the eiopa board of supervisors to include mr bernardin in the composition of the eiopa board of supervisors.
the european insurance and occupational pensions authority (eiopa) has published a report on the implementation of the new rules on the protection of employees in the event of a dispute between the supervisory authorities and the supervisory authorities. the main task of eiopa is to contribute to the stability of the eu financial system by ensuring the integrity, transparency, efficiency and orderly functioning of financial markets. i supported the extension of the mandate of the president of the european insurance and occupational pensions authority (eiopa), gabriel bernardin.
written. ‒ taking into account the success of eiopa in addressing economic and monetary issues and its past activity in monitoring trends and risks that have emerged at cross-border and cross-sectoral levels, i support the report on the extension of the mandate of the current president, mr gabriel bernardino, submitted by mr roberto gualtieri. the european insurance and occupational pensions authority (eiopa) is the european regulator for occupational insurance and pensions and one of the three european systemic authorities for the supervision of the financial system. the eiopa shall be responsible for the implementation of the rules on the protection of the financial interests of the union. it shall carry out its tasks independently, objectively and in the interest of the european union. the person in this position must have demonstrated a high level of knowledge of the existing regulations and consistency in their implementation.
written. ‒ given that on 30 september 2015 the eiopa board of supervisors proposed to extend the mandate of mr gabriel bernardin, the current president of eiopa, for another five years, building on the good performance of the previous mandate, i support the proposal to extend the mandate of mr gabriel bernardin as president of eiopa for another five years.
written. i support the report by mr robert gualtieri on the extension of the mandate of the president of the european insurance and occupational pensions authority (eiopa). in view of the fact that the first chair of eiopa was appointed by the eiopa board of supervisors in 2011 following an open selection procedure for a period of five years in accordance with article 48 (2) of regulation (eu) no 1094/2010 and bearing in mind that article 48 (4) of regulation (eu) no 1094/2010 provides that the eiopa board of supervisors may extend the term of office of the chair of eiopa once, i agree to extend the term of office of gabrielle bernardine, the current chair of eiopa, for a further five years, provided that all legal and procedural standards are met.
written. ‒ i support the extension of the mandate of mr gabriel bernardin as president of the european insurance and pensions agency, as on 17 november 2015 the committee on economic and monetary affairs held a hearing with mr gabriel bernardin, the current president of eiopa, where he made an introductory statement and then satisfactorily answered the questions of the members of the committee.
‒ the european insurance and occupational pensions authority (eiopa) was established on 24 november 2010 on the basis of article 48 (4) of regulation (eu) no 1094/2010 on a proposal from the european parliament and the council. the first chair of eiopa was appointed by the eiopa board of supervisors in 2011 following an open selection procedure for a period of five years. on the basis of the above, on 30 september 2015 the eiopa board of supervisors proposed to extend the mandate of mr gabriel bernardin, the current president of eiopa, for a further five years. i support the european parliament's proposal for a decision at first reading to extend the mandate of mr gabriel bernardin as president of eiopa for a second five-year term, as he has demonstrated in his work to date the commitment and the level of expertise required to do the job. in addition, as it is a relatively new body, continuity in the form of an extension of the mandate opens up the prospect of a consistent implementation and achievement of the objectives set within the framework.
written. ‒ i supported the reappointment of mr gabriel bernardin as president of the european insurance and occupational pensions authority (eiopa), as proposed by the committee of supervisors. as the committee has assessed that during the previous mandate it met the criteria for the performance of its duties, i consider that the european parliament should accept the proposal to extend its mandate as head of the european union body that supports cooperation between national authorities and ensures the consistent application of eu law to the insurance and occupational pension sectors in eu countries. the commission should be able to assess whether the national authorities have complied with the requirements of this regulation and the requirements of the regulation on the taking-up and pursuit of the business of credit institutions. since there is no objection to bernardin's performance of his duties, i consider the committee's proposal to extend his mandate to be correct, and i have therefore voted in favour.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the proposal for a decision of the european parliament to extend the mandate of the president of the european securities and capital markets authority (esma), because i believe that this allows the smooth continuation of the work of the president of the authority, steven major, and of the authority itself. i hold that it is very important that such bodies carry out their activities in the most efficient and consistent way possible in order to justify their existence. i consider that mr maijoor has been successful in this and therefore support the opinion of the committee on economic and monetary affairs of the european parliament and the proposal of the committee of supervisors of esma to extend the term of office of its chair.
written. ‒ i supported the extension of the mandate of the president of the european securities and capital markets authority of esma, steven maijoor. the main task of esma is to contribute to the stability of the financial system of the union by ensuring the transparency, efficiency and orderly functioning of the system.
written. ‒ taking into account all the reports submitted previously on the work of esma to date and the expressed excellence of the current chairman, steven maijor, in his performance, i support the report on the renewal of the mandate submitted by roberto gualtieri. since its establishment on 1 january 2011, esma (european securities and capital markets authority) has aimed to contribute to the stability of the financial system in the union, both by ensuring the integrity, efficiency and transparency of the orderly functioning of all financial markets and by enhancing investor protection. the commission has also received comments from the united kingdom and the united kingdom on the application of the provisions of the directive on the taking up and pursuit of the business of credit institutions. the authority and the management board represent its main bodies, while at the same time, in addition to its independence, it is answerable to the eu parliament where it appears before the econa commission on request. steven maijoor has proven himself as a quality chairman of this body through his academic and professional background and i believe that the extension of the mandate provides continuity in the quality of the work.
written. ‒ given that on 24 september 2015 the committee of supervisors of esma proposed to extend the term of office of steven maijoor, the current president of esma, for a further five years, on the basis of the successful work of the previous term, i support the proposal to extend the term of office of steven maijoor as president of esma for a further five years.
written. i support the report by my colleague, mr robert gualtieri, on the extension of the mandate of the president of the european securities and markets authority (esma). whereas the first chairperson of esma was appointed by the board of supervisors in 2011 following an open selection procedure for a five-year term of office in accordance with article 48 (2) of regulation (eu) no 1095/2010, and whereas article 48 (4) of regulation (eu) no 1095/2010 provides that the board of supervisors may extend the term of office of the chairperson of esma once. as the committee of supervisors of esma has proposed to extend the term of office of steven maijoor, the current chair of esma, for a further five years and informed the european parliament, i agree to extend the term of office of steven maijoor for a further five years.
written. ‒ i supported the proposal to extend the mandate of the president of the european securities and markets authority (esma), steven maijoor, taking into account the report of the committee on economic and monetary policy. on 24 september 2015, the committee of supervisors of esma proposed to extend the term of office of steven maijoor, the current president of esma, for a further five years and informed the european parliament thereof.
‒ the european securities and markets authority (esma) was established on 24 november 2010 by article 48 (4) of regulation (eu) no 1095/2010 on a proposal from the european parliament and the council. the first chairperson of esma was appointed by the board of supervisors of esma in 2011 following an open selection procedure for a period of five years. since article 48 (4) of regulation (eu) no 1095/2010 provides that the board of supervisors of esma may, taking into account the assessment, extend the term of office of the chair of esma once, on the basis of the above, on 24 september 2015 the board of supervisors of esma proposed to extend the term of office of mr steven maijoor, the current chair of esma, for a further five years. i support the european parliament's proposal for a decision at first reading to extend the mandate of mr steven maijoor as president of esma for a second five-year term, as he has demonstrated in his work to date the commitment and the level of expertise required to do the job. in addition, as it is a relatively new body, continuity in the form of an extension of the mandate opens up the prospect of a consistent implementation and achievement of the objectives set within the framework.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the extension of the mandate of steven maijooor, chairman of the european securities and markets authority (esma), proposed by the committee of supervisors. in particular, as the securities market regulator of the european union, esma has made a number of advances and made significant achievements. i believe that, on the basis of these results, the board of supervisors has decided to extend the mandate of the chair of esma, who has demonstrated during the previous mandate his ability to lead this highly important organisation, whose responsibility is based on the clear objective of protecting investors and ensuring the stability of financial markets. i supported the new five-year term of office of the chair of esma with confidence in the decision of the board of supervisors, which during the nine months before the end of its previous term of office positively assessed the results achieved in the first term of office and the way in which those duties and requirements were fulfilled in the following years, and i believe that he will continue to perform his function effectively.
written. ‒ i voted against the draft legislative resolution of the european parliament on the draft council implementing decision authorising the european police office (europol) to conclude the agreement on operational and strategic cooperation between bosnia and herzegovina and europol, because it strengthens the role of the european parliament in the process in question and encourages improved security measures and allows a thorough analysis of the agreement, which is also the position of the alde group.
written. ‒ the agreement on operational and strategic cooperation between bosnia and herzegovina and europol defines the rules for the exchange of data and confidential information, the provision of knowledge and training and support in certain criminal investigations. the purpose of the signing of the agreement is to cooperate with each other in preventing and combating all forms of crime and terrorism and to strengthen the action of the competent authorities of bih. i supported the report by mr lorenza fontane because i believe that this is an important cooperation in view of the current security situation in europe and the fact that bih borders croatia, which is a member state, but also in view of the fact that bih is a potential member state.
written. ‒ i support the report on the draft council implementing decision authorising europol to conclude an agreement on operational and strategic cooperation between bosnia and herzegovina and europol. i consider this a positive step because after croatia's accession to the european union in 2013, bosnia and herzegovina became the first neighbour of the european union. europol's objectives are complementary to the wider objectives pursued by both parties, namely the fight against organised crime, corruption, terrorism, trafficking in human beings or financial misconduct. this agreement will encourage the much-needed exchange of information, knowledge, status reports, results of strategic analyses, information and criminal investigations and the involvement of participants in the training and consultation system. in addition, the existing regional threats (terrorism, illicit oil trade, trafficking in human beings, destabilisation of political systems and migration) require a stronger engagement of the eu institutions with a view to stabilising the region and reducing the pressure of challenges on the european continent. in bosnia and herzegovina, there is a threat of radicalisation by terrorist groups linked to regional conflicts in the middle east, and this procedure allows for preventive action against them.
written. i support the report by mr lorenzo fontana. the professional, effective and efficient work of the police and judicial bodies to establish the rule of law throughout the territory of bih is one of the key determinants of a reform agenda agreed among all bih actors and institutions. in this respect, the entry into force of the operational agreement with europol will represent a major step towards meeting the key reform objectives that are a priority for the early submission of bosnia and herzegovina's application for membership of the european union. it is therefore necessary that parliament, in the coordination of this agreement, express its support for the european future of bih, taking into account that the strategic agreement with europol was concluded as early as 2007 and that only after the two entities have agreed, the conclusion of the operational programme is initiated. the agreement defining stronger international cooperation between europol and the competent authorities of bih in preventing organised crime, terrorism and other forms of serious crime will enable bih to strengthen its institutions in the fight against corruption and the building of the rule of law. in the context of several terrorist attacks that have hit bih in the past year, and the growing threat of terrorism within and beyond the eu's borders, i would address the importance of focusing the work of competent authorities on a better exchange of operational, strategic and technical information, including personal data and classified information, for the purpose of countering radicalisation and terrorist operations.
written. ‒ i support the report on the draft council implementing decision authorising the european police office (europol) to conclude the agreement on operational and strategic cooperation between bosnia and herzegovina and europol, having regard to council decision 2009/371/jha of 6 april 2009 establishing a european police office (europol), and in particular article 23 (2) thereof.
‒ the european union, on a proposal from the council, established the european police office on 6 april 2009 and on 30 november of the same year, the council adopted a decision determining the list of third countries (including bosnia and herzegovina) and organisations with which europol concludes agreements. the aim of this international agreement is to reduce crime rates and to exchange personal data and classified information. the cross-border nature of many criminal activities and organised crime groups requires the establishment of enhanced regional and international cooperation to enable better response to member states' requests for police and judicial cooperation. i fully support the council decision at first reading approving the conclusion of the agreement on operational and strategic cooperation between bosnia and herzegovina and europol, as i believe that the establishment of enhanced regional and international cooperation can make great progress in the fight against crime.
written. ‒ in the light of the latest terrorist threats and three terrorist attacks that have occurred in bosnia in a short period of time, and taking into account the fact that europol was established in 1992 precisely with the aim of preventing and combating international organised crime and terrorism in the european union, and that europol's core task is precisely to provide support to the national police authorities in individual member states of the union by collecting, analysing and sharing information and coordinating operations, i wholeheartedly support this cooperation agreement between europol and bosnia and herzegovina. the agreement contains provisions on the exchange of information, specialist knowledge, general situation reports, results of strategic analyses, information on criminal investigations and methods of crime prevention, participation in training activities and provisions on advice and support in individual criminal investigations. in addition, the agreement includes a provision on the exchange of personal data, which i also consider extremely positive in the prevention of crime and terrorism.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a decision of the european parliament and of the council on the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund, in accordance with point 13 of the interinstitutional agreement of 2 december 2013 between the european parliament, the council and the commission on budgetary discipline, on cooperation in budgetary matters and on sound financial management, submitted by ireland, following the declaration of a large number of workers in pwa international ltd (pwai) as redundant and affected by the global financial and economic crisis. the commission has also taken the view that the financial assistance provided by the union should be dynamic and available as soon as possible, and therefore this report, for which i am voting, agrees with the commission that the arguments put forward by ireland can be assessed as 'extraordinary circumstances' and that ireland is entitled to a financial contribution of eur 442 293 and to the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund. i consider that the aid in question is important in order to enable redundant workers to re-enter the labour market and to mitigate the consequences of the the dismissal.
‒ the european globalisation adjustment fund was created to provide assistance to people who have lost their jobs as a result of globalisation. ireland submitted an application to mobilise the fund in june this year for an amount of eur 442 000. the amount of assigned revenue in accordance with article 21 (3) of the financial regulation is estimated at eur 100000. i supported the report by mr negrescu approving the mobilisation of the egf to facilitate the recruitment process of 108 workers made redundant as technological surplus in the irish company pwa international.
written. ‒ the irish aircraft maintenance company has experienced a large decline in contracted jobs due to the rapid development of maintenance technology in asian countries. this sequence of events is also due to global advances in aircraft manufacturing and the development of new materials and safety measures that more easily and quickly detect defects in the manufacturing process itself. the commission notes that the airport services agreement between the cci and ryanair was signed on the same day as the agreement between ryanair and ams. i support this request for disbursement of the european globalisation adjustment fund, as it concerns 108 workers and the requested amount is eur 442 293. the compensation of eur 4 095 per worker can help with the short-term adjustment to the newly created living situation, and in the total amount available to the fund, the total amount represents a minimum part. it is a way of showing solidarity with ireland and especially with its people. we must show unity in mutual aid and perseverance in promoting a spirit of togetherness. this case is part of a systemic challenge to adapt the european economy to new global developments, and it is crucial to show unity in the protection of eu citizens throughout the process.
written. ‒ as the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) was established to provide support for workers made redundant and self-employed persons whose activity has ceased as a result of major structural changes in world trade patterns caused by globalisation, the prolonged global financial and economic crisis referred to in regulation (ec) no 546/2009 (3) or the new global financial and economic crisis, and to assist them in their reintegration into the labour market, i support the decision to mobilise the egf from the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2015 to provide eur 442 293 in commitment and payment appropriations for the purpose of wage integration into the labour market following redundancies in 108 pwai international ltd (pwai). member states should show solidarity with each other where necessary and the commission should assist them in doing so in order to ensure that the funds from this fund are spent in the fairest and most transparent way.
written. pwa international is an irish company operating in the mro (maintenance, repair and overhaul) sector and their area of activity is aircraft maintenance, repair and overhaul. the commission notes that the commission has not provided any evidence that the airport operator would have been able to obtain a return on its investment in the airport. europe, and ireland in particular, has been hit hard by the new trends in which mro activities are located close to the centres of global aviation expansion. for the reasons set out above, the intervention criteria have been met and ireland has acquired the right to use the globalisation adjustment fund. the amount of assigned revenue in accordance with article 21 (3) of the financial regulation is estimated at eur 100000. in the light of the above, i agree with the report by my colleague, mr negrescu, on the proposal for a decision of the european parliament and of the council on the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund, submitted by ireland.
written. ‒ i supported the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund - ireland's request as the union has put in place legislative and budgetary instruments to provide additional support to workers who have been affected by the consequences of major structural changes in world trade flows or by the consequences of the global financial and economic crisis and to help them reintegrate into the labour market. the application does not meet the normal eligibility criteria set out in the egf regulation in terms of the number of workers made redundant, but is submitted on the basis of the intervention criteria set out in article 4 (2) of that regulation, which allows for exceptions in exceptional circumstances, and i therefore supported the commission's arguments that it can be assessed as 'exceptional circumstances' and that ireland is therefore entitled to a financial contribution of eur 442 293 under that regulation.
‒ on 19 june 2015, ireland submitted an application egf/2015/006 ie/pwa international ltd. for a financial contribution from the egf, following redundancies in pwa international (pwai) and one supplier in ireland. the request concerns 108 workers who were declared redundant. the redundancies made by the companies mainly relate to the nuts level 2 region southern and eastern (ie02). the event that led to the dismissal was the closure of the pwai company based in rathcoole. the egf should, therefore, be mobilised in order to provide a financial contribution of eur 442 293. i support this proposal because i believe that the dismissal of workers has a negative impact on employment and the local, regional or national economy. the egf should, therefore, be mobilised in order to help those workers and to provide adequate support to workers declared redundant.
written. ‒ i voted against the approval of the request to ireland to mobilise the european globalisation adjustment fund, which concerns workers declared redundant in pwa international ltd. and one supplier operating in the repair and installation of machinery and equipment sector. the company was eventually closed due to a gradual move to other repair facilities in arkansas (usa) and singapore. the commission considers that the aid is compatible with the internal market within the meaning of article 107 (3) (c) of the treaty and that it is compatible with the internal market if it is granted in accordance with the conditions laid down in the treaty. the commission considers that the aid is compatible with the internal market if it is granted in accordance with the conditions laid down in the guidelines on state aid for rescuing and restructuring firms in difficulty.
written. ‒ i support this report because i consider that the draft commission implementing regulation goes beyond the implementing powers provided for by regulation 1143/2014. the draft union list does not address the problem of invasive alien species in a comprehensive manner that would protect native biodiversity. the proposal does not fulfil the main condition of minimising and mitigating the impact that those species could have on human health and the economy.
written. ‒ i voted out on the european parliament's motion for a resolution on the draft commission implementing regulation adopting the list of invasive species of union concern under regulation (eu) no 1143/2014 because such species directly threaten european biodiversity, agriculture and fisheries and therefore i consider it necessary to start implementing the new regulation as soon as possible. it is important that the list in question is complete and based on scientific data and risk assessment. i am of the opinion that the proposal for a list proposed by the commission should not be rejected, but that the commission should continue to work on the inclusion of new species on the list, on the basis of additional assessments.
written. ‒ invasive alien species are unusual species that do not naturally inhabit a particular ecosystem, but have been introduced into it by intentional or unintentional introduction, and by their settlement or spread have a negative impact on biodiversity, human health or cause economic damage in the area to which they have been introduced. the european commission, by its implementing decision, sought to amend the list of invasive alien species that may cause those adverse effects in the union. however, in my opinion and in the opinion of most of my fellow members, the way the draft list was drawn up was not implemented in a way that would guarantee that the same type of evidence is used in the member states and that the same standards are applied, as was also pointed out by well-known ngos of citizens working in the field of environmental and nature protection, and i therefore supported this resolution objecting to the commission's implementing decision. unfortunately, some land plant species and mammals, although they fulfil the criteria for inclusion in that list and although risk assessments are available indicating their danger, are not included in that list. i therefore call on the commission to submit a new proposal to include in the list of invasive alien species precisely those species which are considered to be the most harmful invasive alien species in europe.
written. ‒ a new draft commission implementing regulation adopting the list of invasive alien species is needed, given that the existing solution is inadequate, flawed and subject to strong criticism from the public and the profession. the commission should be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 290 tfeu concerning the list of invasive alien species to be included in the list of invasive alien species to be included in the list of invasive alien species to be included in the list of invasive alien species to be included in the list of invasive alien species to be included in the list of invasive alien species to be included in the list of invasive alien species to be included in the list of invasive alien species to be included in the list of invasive alien species to be included in the list of invasive alien species to be included in the list of invasive alien species to be included in the list of invasive alien species to be included in the list of invasive alien species to be included in the list of invasive alien species to be included in the list of invasive alien species to be included in the list of invasive alien species to be included in the list of invasive alien species to be included in the list of invasive alien species to be included in the list of invasive alien species to be included in the list of invasive alien species. furthermore, it is necessary to take into account the latest scientific knowledge and to include potentially problematic species and the most rapidly spreading mammal species that have not been included in the list until now, which is why i support this objection.
written. i support the motion for a resolution tabled under rule 106 (2) and (3) of the rules of procedure on the draft commission implementing regulation adopting the list of invasive alien species of union concern under regulation (eu) no 1143/2014 of the european parliament and of the council (d041932/01 2015/3010 ((rsp)) by ms renate sommer and mr pavel poca, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety. globally, invasive species in an area are now considered to be the greatest threat to its biodiversity, along with direct habitat destruction. large migrations of people, trade and transport have always been accompanied by the spread of species beyond their range. the commission should be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 290 concerning the establishment of a list of invasive alien species to be included in the list of invasive alien species to be included in the list of invasive alien species. as the commission has failed to ensure that the methodology to be used in carrying out the risk assessment is implemented in the same way in all member states and it cannot be guaranteed that the same type of evidence is used and the same standards are applied in all member states, i agree with the report requesting the commission to withdraw its draft implementing regulation and to submit a new draft to the committee on the environment, public health and food safety.
written. ‒ i supported the motion for a resolution on the draft commission implementing decision adopting the list of invasive alien species of union concern in accordance with regulation (eu) no 1143/2014 of the european parliament and of the council, and in agreement with the committee on the environment, public health and food safety.
written. ‒ i supported the objection to the list of invasive alien species of union concern and i believe that the rapporteurs have correctly recognised the inconsistency of the original list with the provisions of the resolution, which aims to prevent and manage the introduction and spread of those species. species whose presence or spread threatens biodiversity, human health or causes economic damage cost the european union some 12 billion euros a year. although the commission proposed a list of species against which the measures provided for in that resolution should be taken, no standardised procedure was used and the proposed list does not include all problematic invasive species that have a significant negative impact on biodiversity and ecosystem services, while other species against which action would result in a cost imbalance are included in that list. i consider it extremely important that the commission draws up a new draft before the list is adopted, so that member states can take steps to monitor, eradicate and manage invasive alien species when they occur on their territory in accordance with the resolution, with the aim of protecting indigenous biodiversity.
written. ‒i voted in favour of this objection because i believe that the current system for the authorisation of gmo food in the eu should be changed. the commission's proposal is to be adopted by the council on the basis of a proposal from the commission. in 2010, monsanto applied for authorisation and for five years member states could not agree on whether to grant or refuse authorisation. in such a situation, the commission has the right under the existing rules to act itself as it deems necessary. while the decision is legal, it's not democratic. the problem the european union has with gmos will not go away on its own, nor is the status quo sustainable. we have to accept the fact that most member states are against gmos, but some states want them.
written. ‒ i voted out on the european parliament's motion for a resolution on the commission implementing decision authorising the placing on the market of products containing, consisting of or produced from genetically modified maize under regulation (ec) no 1829/2003 because i consider that the analysis of the european food safety authority that such maize is as safe as non-genetically modified maize with regard to human health, animal health and the environment should be taken into account. however, i believe that such types of products should be specifically labelled to make it unmistakably clear that they are genetically modified products. in addition, it is important to note that the cultivation of genetically modified maize is prohibited. this is also the position of the alde group.
written. ‒ i support the request of parliament to ask the commission to withdraw its implementing decision (eu) 2015/2279. the genetically modified mon-øø6ø3-6 × acs-zmøø3-2 maize expresses the cp4 protein epsps which causes tolerance to the herbicide glyphosate, and the pat protein which causes tolerance to herbicides containing glufosinate-ammonium. in this way, the use of this gm maize has an advantage over other commercial varieties if it is used in combination with a herbicide containing the active substance glufosinate-ammonia, but in combination with a herbicide containing the active substance glyphosate. glufosinate-ammonia is known for its teratogenicity and glyphosate was classified as a probable human carcinogen by the international agency for research on cancer (the world health organisation's specialised cancer agency) on 20 march 2015. the use of potentially carcinogenic or known teratogenic substances in the environment is a risk i consider unwarranted. the current system for the authorisation of genetically modified food and feed is unreliable in my view, as the announced review of this procedure has not yet been carried out. in addition, the commission considers that the rejection of the proposal to amend regulation (ec) no 1829/2003 has created a situation in which, until the adoption of the new proposal, the right of member states to decide on their own on the use of gm food and feed on their territory is not guaranteed, which is contrary to the principle of subsidiarity.
the genetically modified maize mon-øø6ø3-6 × acs-zmøø3-2 releases the cp4 protein epsps which confers resistance to the herbicide glyphosate and the pat protein which confers resistance to the herbicide glufosinate ammonium. the international agency for research on cancer has classified glyphosate as a probable human carcinogen. in view of these recommendations and the likely consequences of consuming this gm maize, i fully support the objection under rule 106 to the authorisation of its use. the commission has also proposed to amend regulation (ec) no 1829/2003 (6) to ensure that the genetically modified organisms are not subject to any controls at the border. the commission implementing decision does not comply with union law as it is incompatible with the objective of regulation (ec) no 1829/2003 and regulation (ec) no 396/2005 (8) to provide a basis for a high level of protection of human life and health, animal health and welfare, the environment and consumer interests in relation to genetically modified food and feed, while guaranteeing the effective functioning of the internal market, and i therefore request its withdrawal.
written. ‒ i support this proposal as i consider that the genetically modified maize mon-øø6ø3-6 × acs-zmøø3-2, as specified in the application, releases the cp4 epsps protein which confers resistance to the herbicide glyphosate and the pat protein which confers resistance to the herbicide glufosinate ammonium, and as glyphosate was classified as a probable human carcinogen by the international agency for research on cancer (the world health organisation's cancer specialised agency) on 20 march 2015.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the objection to the commission implementing decision authorising the placing on the market of products containing, consisting of or produced from genetically modified maize nk603 because i believe that the members who lodged that objection recognised the problems that these products would cause. in particular, since the european parliament, as the representative body of the citizens of the european union, has never given authorisation for the placing on the market of genetically modified products and some member states are explicitly opposed to such products, i consider that the commission should withdraw its decision and thus protect the health of the citizens of the european union. i believe that the commission should be guided in its decisions, above all, by the objective of providing a high level of protection of human life and health, animal health and welfare, the environment and consumer interests in relation to genetically modified food and feed. i therefore consider that each member state has the right to decide whether and to what extent it wishes to place gmo products on its market or not.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the report with recommendations to the commission on the introduction of transparency, coordination and convergence in corporate tax policies in the union, as i believe that greater transparency in corporate taxation can improve tax collection and the efficiency of tax authorities, and that it is key to ensuring greater public trust in tax systems and governments and that this should be a key priority. the commission notes that the commission has not provided any evidence that the taxable profit of the company is taxed in the same way as the profit of the company. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament and the council adopt a common position on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending regulation (ec) no 1224/2009 as regards the definition of the concept of 'originating products' and the definition of the concept of 'originating products' and the definition of the concept of 'originating products' and the definition of the concept of 'originating products'. i'm not sure.
written. ‒ enabling profit shifting to avoid paying tax in the member state where the value added is created, the european union loses between €50 and €70 billion a year. by losing these resources, member states are unable to stimulate growth factors, and in doing so they place a tax burden on labour and production, thus stifling economic recovery, development and job creation. i supported the report because it proposes measures to help achieve transparency, coordination and convergence between member states in order to avoid unfair tax practices and to allow fair taxation and tax competition. the achievement of these objectives would allow the tax relief of those entities, small and medium-sized enterprises, which genuinely contribute to economic growth, development and job creation.
written. ‒ report with recommendations to the commission on the introduction of transparency, coordination and convergence of corporate tax policy in the union as a result of the luxleaks scandal. although its creation was prompted by findings that fundamentally shook the tax policies of the member states and called into question the work of their tax administrations, it is good that it has accelerated the decision-making process on changes in tax policies, in this case with a particular focus on corporate tax. corporate and individual taxation certainly need to be further regulated and this can be achieved precisely through increasing and improving the transparency, coordination and convergence of national tax policies. aggressive tax planning, base erosion, profit shifting, tax evasion and other tax fraud lead to a tax gap that significantly affects state revenues and the introduction of unpopular measures, such as the increase in the vat rate, the introduction of new taxes (e.g. the real estate tax which is currently under wide debate in croatia) or the increase in national debt. we must prevent such phenomena, and that is what this report says, and i agree with it completely. i also supported this report because i believe that the recommendations made are sufficiently detailed and to the point. in particular, i welcome measures such as mandatory public reporting by member states for all multinational companies in all sectors.
written. ‒ i support the proposed legislative recommendations to improve the transparency, coordination and convergence of corporate tax policy in the union. the proposed measures, prepared by the committee on economic and monetary affairs and by colleagues anneliese dodds and luděk niedermayer, are based on the work of the ep's special committee on taxation decisions and its recommendations approved earlier last month. the 'lux leaks' case, in which a consortium of journalists investigating tax rulings and other harmful practices in luxembourg revealed that nearly 340 multinational companies had entered into secret agreements with luxembourg, best illustrates the urgency of adopting and implementing the proposed measures. we need comprehensive and public country-by-country reporting for all multinational companies in all sectors and complement directive 2011/16/eu, which includes proposals for the automatic exchange of information on tax rulings. it is unacceptable that the eu loses some eur 50 to 70 billion every year because of tax evasion achieved through tax switching. this figure rises to around eur 160 to 190 billion, if special tax arrangements and inefficiencies in tax collection are taken into account. these are significant resources that we must control and use more efficiently.
written. i agree with the report with recommendations to the commission on the introduction of transparency, coordination and convergence in corporate tax policies in the union, by mr dodds and mr niedermayer. in november 2014, the international consortium of investigative journalists published information indicating that almost 340 multinational companies had entered into secret agreements with luxembourg with the aim of minimising their global taxation to the detriment of the public interest of the union. the commission also notes that the tax advisor's tax advisor was not a tax advisor, but a tax advisor. in view of the aforementioned luxembourg affair, i call on the commission to take all necessary steps to introduce public country-by-country reporting for all multinational companies in all sectors by the beginning of 2016. i believe that greater transparency in the area of corporate taxation can improve tax collection and the efficiency of tax authorities and that it is key to ensuring greater public trust in tax systems and governments and that this should be an important priority. i firmly believe that progress in the fight against tax evasion, tax avoidance and aggressive tax planning can only be monitored through a harmonised methodology that will allow the size of direct and indirect tax gaps to be estimated in all member states and in the union as a whole.
written. ‒ i support this draft law on the introduction of transparency, coordination and convergence in corporate tax policies in the union, because the european union has made great strides towards economic integration, such as economic and monetary union and banking union, and the harmonisation of tax policies at union level within the limits set by the treaty is an essential part of the integration process. the commission notes that the tax rulings are not binding on the taxpayer and that the tax rulings are not binding on the taxpayer. the most appropriate response to aggressive tax planning is good legislation, its proper implementation and international coordination to achieve the desired outcomes.
‒ the international consortium of investigative journalists, investigating tax rulings and other harmful practices in luxembourg (luxleaks), announced in november 2014 that nearly 340 multinational companies had entered into secret agreements with luxembourg. the commission notes that the tax rulings of the tax administration of luxembourg were based on the tax ruling of the tax administration of luxembourg. national political leaders, with a few commendable exceptions, have shown little willingness to address the problem of tax evasion when it comes to taxing profits. the commission notes that the tax exemption for the taxable profit of the company is not a tax measure, but rather a measure that is intended to reduce the tax burden on taxable persons. i accept the council's position at first reading because i believe that the union and the member states should take equally decisive action to tackle the problem of tax evasion and tax fraud in the taxation of companies and individuals.
written. ‒ in parallel to the commission's request for the special committee on tax rulings and other measures similar in nature or effect to examine the tax rules in individual member states of the union, the committee on economic and monetary policy has been mandated to prepare an own-initiative report on corporate taxation, which aims to build on the taxe special committee report, which should lead to a future proposal for a specific commission legislative resolution. the report contains 15 recommendations calling on the commission to make a legislative proposal that should increase transparency, coordination and convergence of corporate taxation in the european union. while i support in principle some of the views expressed in the report on better coordination between member states, i cannot agree with the proposals, which unfortunately make up the majority of the report, calling for direct taxation by the union, which is a gross violation of the principle of subsidiarity, given that it is the member states which have exclusive regulatory competence in that segment. the commission has also taken into account the fact that the commission has not yet adopted a decision on the compatibility of the aid with the internal market. i strongly oppose these proposals, and i voted against them.
written. ‒ i support this report which covers the overall eu-china relationship, from the political, economic, environmental, social and human rights aspects. the aim is to create a document that helps to define cooperation between the eu and china, one of the biggest 'players' at the global level, in a constructive approach.
written. ‒ i voted for the report on eu-china relations because the eu-china strategic partnership is crucial to finding common answers to a range of global issues and identifying common interests. china, as the eu's main trading partner with a huge and growing market, is certainly a desirable strategic partner with which the eu started strengthening its bilateral cooperation and enhancing the global dimension of its strategic partnership as early as 2013. i certainly believe that successful eu-china cooperation needs to be further expanded and deepened in many areas, and that eu member states need to take further advantage of the advantages offered by china's economic development.
written. ‒ i supported the report by representative bass belder on the occasion of the 40th anniversary of diplomatic relations between the eu and china - a key strategic partner on a range of global issues. i welcome the conclusions of the meeting of 29 june, which brought relations and cooperation to a new level, and all the positive changes that have followed under the leadership of president xi. china is the eu's main trading partner and the report calls for even better coordination in all areas such as security, the financial system, urbanisation and development, with particular emphasis on the importance of cooperation on climate change and regional development.
written. ‒ i support the report on eu-china relations. the report rightly recognises the importance of china to the european union in terms of cooperation in a number of fields, the key ones being the economy and the fight against asymmetric security threats. yet, despite china's overall improvement in poverty alleviation, overall progress, and rising living standards, it is important to note three points that should not be overlooked. first, it is the protection of the environment and the observance of international agreements that regulate the objectives of all states in curbing activities and preventing actions that may adversely affect environmental pollution. china must make a clear shift away from the current production model that causes significant pollution. second, the area china needs to work on is the protection of human rights in their fullness and the consistent enforcement of the rule of law. family planning policy is the third problem area. it is important to send a clear signal to china that family planning policy cannot be limited to the state level despite the demographic policy goals. this puts women at a severe disadvantage, encouraging abortion and child abandonment. china must devise other mechanisms to control population growth in accordance with the needs of society and in doing so should not violate the right to life.
written. ‒ as we celebrate the 40th anniversary of the establishment of diplomatic relations between the european union and china, i welcome the constructive efforts of the report on the relationship between these two political and economic giants in a spirit of transparency and trust. i agree with the stated need for the member states of the union to align their approach towards china in view of the dynamic and active work of chinese diplomacy and the expected union cooperation with the asian infrastructure investment bank. furthermore, i believe that china should play a more important role in international financial institutions, but at the same time take more seriously its commitments in the areas of good governance, social responsibility and environmental protection. the commission notes that the chinese authorities have not provided any evidence that the chinese exporting producers are in a position to obtain a benefit from the measures. the commission has also received a number of complaints from the chinese authorities regarding the alleged violations of the human rights law and the human rights situation in the country.
written. i support the motion for a resolution tabled by mr bastian belder on eu-china relations. as diplomatic relations between the eu and china date back to 1975, and as we mark 40 years of diplomatic relations this year, and as china has continued to grow as a global power, it is important to re-examine europe's strategic priorities in its relations with china. the eu-china partnership is essential to identify common interests, so that bilateral cooperation can address issues of common interest. some of the important global issues and issues of common interest are global and regional security, the fight against terrorism and organised crime, cyber security, weapons of mass destruction and nuclear non-proliferation, energy security, global financial and market regulation, climate change and sustainable development. the commission notes that the chinese exporting producers have not been able to demonstrate that the measures are in line with the union interest. i welcome the fact that china has made progress in a whole range of areas, such as the human rights situation, the fight against corruption and the reduction of poverty. on the other hand, it should be borne in mind that there is still much room for improvement, especially in terms of ecology and climate change.
written. ‒ i supported the european parliament resolution on eu-china relations, given that the eu-china structured political dialogue was formally launched in 1994, and the high-level strategic dialogue on strategic and foreign policy issues was launched in 2010, and in particular the 5th eu-china high-level strategic dialogue held in beijing on 6 may 2015. i therefore call for better coordination between the eu and china in areas of strategic importance such as the g20, security and defence, counter-terrorism, illegal migration, transnational crime, nuclear non-proliferation, global and regional security, cyber security, weapons of mass destruction, energy security, global governance of financial systems and markets and their regulation, climate change and urbanisation, development and assistance programmes and sustainable development. i would stress the importance of the eu-china bilateral trade and investment agreement currently under negotiation and call for the inclusion in the bilateral investment agreement of a full-fledged chapter on sustainable development providing for binding commitments on the core labour standards of the international labour organisation (ilo) and key multilateral environmental agreements, and follow-up and active monitoring to ensure a more balanced trade relationship for european companies after the removal of barriers to trade and investment.
written. ‒ it marks the 40th anniversary of the establishment of diplomatic relations between the eu and china. a strategic partnership has been established, which is essential in a multipolar and globalised world and to accelerate the ongoing negotiations on a new partnership and cooperation agreement based on trust, transparency and respect for human rights. china should have a stronger role in multilateral financial institutions. there are 60 sectoral dialogues between the eu and china on a wide range of issues. the parties concerned should avoid unilateral provocative moves in the south china sea. the peaceful settlement of disputes is necessary in accordance with international law and through mechanisms for impartial international mediation such as the un convention on the law of the sea (unclos). china and taiwan are important economic partners of the eu in asia and a more peaceful resolution of the conflict is needed. i support this proposal because i believe that eu-china relations must offer an effective platform for a mature, meaningful and open dialogue on human rights and that the 40th anniversary of eu-china relations in 2015 provides a real opportunity to make progress in this area. china is a key international power and one of the eu's most important partners.
written. ‒ i supported the report on eu-china relations which explains the situation in five key areas, namely: the eu-china strategic partnership and cooperation, the internal situation in china, external relations, the human rights situation and cross-cutting relations. i believe that the report has rightly highlighted key areas where further reforms and improvements are needed, particularly in the area of human rights. the commission has also been asked to provide a report on the implementation of the new rules on the protection of the financial interests of the union. while it is clear that china is an important emerging regional and global economic actor, i believe that in line with its economic growth, china needs to implement significant reforms to ensure respect for social, civil and political rights, as the report emphasises.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the preparations for the world humanitarian summit: challenges and opportunities for humanitarian aid delivery, because we are witnessing that the challenges we face in our daily lives are increasingly acute due to urbanization, population growth, demographic change, the increased frequency and intensity of natural disasters, environmental destruction, climate change, numerous long-term conflicts that are taking place simultaneously and affecting all regions, and causing resource scarcity, poverty, inequality, migration, displacement and instability. this is why we have the need for humanitarian response, and this report welcomes the un initiative to gather intelligence from around the world to prevent natural disasters and to find ways to save more people and protect them from the consequences of various types of crises.
written. ‒ i am against this report because it mis-addresses most of the modern problems of human rights protection and humanitarian aid provision. in crises caused by natural factors, there is already an elaborate model of action at the level of governments and international institutions. i'm also against it because there's no model of mandating funding for a humanitarian protection program that's fair to everyone. it is wrong to insist that regional organisations or the private sector bear the financial costs of humanitarian crises and it is questionable how to establish a system that correctly and fairly determines the contributions that a state, a regional organisation or the private sector must make. it is necessary to develop a coherent foreign policy that fully upholds the european union's main priorities in terms of the protection of human rights, democracy, the prevention of violent armed conflict or threats to human security.
written. ‒ to meet the first world humanitarian summit, innovative ways of thinking and acting in the field of humanitarian aid delivery need to be supported in the face of the continuity of man-made conflicts and natural disasters. the humanitarian aid system is overburdened by the refugee and migrant crisis and climate change and requires new mechanisms, financial instruments and forms of international cooperation. the union's efforts to lead by example in focusing more on the causes, i.e. prevention and prediction of disasters, than on the consequences, i.e. remediation, are to be particularly commended. the union's financial contribution for the period 2014-2020 is estimated at eur 5 million.
written. report on the preparations for the world humanitarian summit: challenges and opportunities for humanitarian aid delivery presented by enrique guerrero salom. given that humanitarian challenges are growing, taking place simultaneously and affecting entire regions, and causing resource scarcity, poverty, inequality, migration, displacement and instability, i support this report which points to the need for the world humanitarian summit to accelerate the restructuring of the delivery of humanitarian assistance to better serve those in need. we must protect the humanitarian principles of humanity, neutrality, impartiality and independence and the fundamental rules of international humanitarian law and human rights as laid down in the geneva conventions and their additional protocols. it is of the utmost importance to encourage the world community to come together at the world humanitarian meeting to protect human rights, to respect the principles of humanity, impartiality and to condemn the abuse of neutrality or the disregard of the main humanitarian principles for political, military or non-humanitarian purposes.
written. ‒ in a highly volatile world, we are facing an increasing variety, frequency and power of natural disasters and shortages, and an unprecedented escalation of complex conflicts. the number of people in need of aid more than doubled between 2004 and 2015, reaching more than 100 million. 250 million people are affected by humanitarian crises, and the number of forcibly displaced people is at its highest since world war ii, at nearly 60 million, including nearly 40 million internally displaced persons. half of the world's refugees are children, and that is why i support the commission's recommendations to develop a comprehensive list of success indicators. so i call for a new agreement at the world humanitarian summit to intervene in fragile states and long-term crises with sustainable programs, implementation plans and predictable development finance.
written. ‒ while the aim of this report is to transform humanitarian aid so that it is more effective, transparent and truly global, i abstained. i support certain parts of this report and i think that the european union really should respond to the doubling of the number of people affected by the humanitarian crisis and people in need since 2004. i consider it essential, in accordance with international law, to facilitate the delivery of humanitarian aid to the most vulnerable groups and to improve hygiene conditions and emergency sanitation infrastructure in order to provide adequate assistance and health care to those in need. however, i cannot agree with some of the suggestions in this report. namely, i do not support the proposal for mandatory payments to the global fund for humanitarian aid, and i oppose the attempt to classify abortion access as a range of conventional health services in the area of sexual and reproductive health. i believe that imposing such obligations and provisions is inappropriate to a report that should make it easier for those in need to access aid.
written. ‒ i support this resolution because the eu can mitigate the current difficult situation in the base metals sector through its action. the european base metals industry is important for a whole range of downstream industries, including the automotive and aerospace industries, energy production, construction and packaging. the fact that plants for the electrolysis of metals such as aluminium, copper and magnesium are closing one after the other shows that europe is rapidly deindustrialising in this sector. this is not due to a decrease in european demand but mainly due to the increase and increasing volatility of electricity prices in several member states and dumping from third countries. on the contrary, the demand for non-ferrous metals such as aluminium and copper is continuously increasing despite the crisis.
written. ‒ i voted with a firm majority in favour of the motion for a resolution of the european parliament on the development of a sustainable european base metals industry, because that was the position of the alde group and because i believe that further clarification and analysis are needed to effectively tackle climate change, improve energy and emissions policy and transparency.
written. ‒ the european steel sector has a historically important role to play in the process of european integration. the basic metals sector plays a key role in the development of the economy and technology. the commission therefore concluded that the union industry did not suffer material injury within the meaning of article 3 (5) of the basic regulation. the establishment of new limits is the most effective structural mechanism to prevent the risk of carbon leakage and to undermine efforts to combat climate change. the establishment of climate change boundaries should create a level playing field and unhindered competition between producers inside and outside the eu. i supported the report by member of parliament edouard martin primarily to protect the achievement of the climate change objectives. however, the weakening of the world metal market and the decrease in the metal price has also affected europe and has resulted in a weakening of most of the metal industry.
written. ‒ the eu's base metals industry is in a deep crisis and faces a number of challenges that are difficult to tackle on its own. the metal industry is a key source of raw materials for many other industries, especially new, technologically advanced industries. the union industry is suffering from a decline in demand on the world market and from unfair competition from third countries which dump their products on the market and thus destroy competition. it is these movements that we witness in the worst possible way, with compassion for the workers in the mammalian ironworks. the business move of abs's entry into the ironworks, followed by an investment of 25 million euros, which, after years of domestic doubts, gave some hope for a better tomorrow, has unfortunately been stuck on the ramparts of the relentless global market. this is why i supported this report and call for the manufacturing industry to be protected at european level, for appropriate anti-dumping measures to be applied and for specific measures within european energy and climate policy to address the problem of 'carbon leakage' and thus support the base metals industry. i also ask the authorities in croatia to take advantage of the opportunities offered by the mobilisation of the european fund for adaptation to globalisation or to ensure that these opportunities are used, as the case of the siska ironworks is a good example of the consequences of globalisation in croatia.
written. i support the report on the development of a sustainable european base metal industry by mr edouard martin. the commission also found that the union industry's sales volume and market share developed over the period considered as follows: this shows that europe is rapidly decentralising in this sector. the problem is that this is not due to a fall in european demand, but to rising energy prices and carbon costs in several member states and dumping from third countries, which is causing europe to rapidly deindustrialise in this sector. the burden and the great challenge for europe is to become competitive again, while remaining a global role model in terms of social and environmental responsibility in its actions. the eu must therefore stimulate employment growth through innovation in manufacturing at all stages of the industrial business cycle. i believe that the eu's path to a stronger competitiveness of the base metals industry lies in an active policy of innovation and new production processes.
written. ‒ i support reforms that seek to ensure the development of a sustainable european base metals industry that is both environmentally sound and highly competitive and provides quality jobs. the commission has also taken into account the fact that the union industry is facing a significant increase in imports of aluminium and steel products from the prc. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's macro-financial assistance to the countries of central and eastern europe, including the countries of the former soviet union, and will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's macro-financial assistance to the countries of central and eastern europe. i regret that these reforms have not included provisions on the rights of industrial workers and i hope that this shortcoming will be rectified soon.
written. ‒ i support this report because the european metal industry forms the basis for the creation of european added value in industry as well as in european value chains. the commission notes that the commission has not provided any evidence that the steel industry in the union is in difficulty. the basic metals sector plays a key role in the development of the overall economy and in the development of technology and in overcoming supply bottlenecks. the steel industry, whose production capacity has been reduced by more than 40 million tonnes since 2008 and in which more than 60 000 jobs have been lost directly and more than 100 000 indirectly, is experiencing the worst peacetime crisis in its history, which is increasing the dependence of the industrial production sector on imports from third countries and leading to a loss of experience and know-how in the industry, with a direct impact on millions of jobs. the european electrolysis plants for metals such as aluminium, copper and magnesium are closing one after the other, showing that europe is rapidly deindustrialising in this sector, not because of a decline in european demand, but mainly because of the increase and increasing volatility of electricity prices in several member states and dumping from third countries.
written. ‒ the european steel sector has historically played an important role in the process of european integration and forms the basis for the creation of european added value in the economy. the commission also found that the union industry was not able to compete with the union industry in the union market. it is estimated that since 2008 production capacity has been reduced by more than 40 million tonnes, resulting in more than 60 000 direct and more than 100 000 indirect job losses. the energy union package was subsequently defined. this package of measures would allow the creation of a secure, sustainable and competitive energy market with affordable prices, thereby increasing the competitiveness of the european economy in the global context and reducing and harmonising energy prices in europe and among member states. i support the motion for a resolution because i believe that the development of the european base metal industry is extremely important for the development of the economy and, therefore, for the preservation of jobs. this would help the industry to respond to the social and environmental challenges it faces and must overcome.
written. ‒ the report focuses on the situation in the european base metals industry, with the rapporteur highlighting the protectionist carbon cap mechanism as a key tool in this fight. the text adopted in the report proposes that such a mechanism be established in the event that no agreement is reached at cop 21. while i agree in principle that the sustainability of the base metals industry is a relevant issue and a problem that needs to be addressed, i do not agree that the same can be effectively achieved by the measures proposed in the report and therefore i voted against.
written. ‒ i support this motion for a resolution on the situation in hungary. in view of the adoption on 10 june 2015 of a resolution calling, inter alia, for the simultaneous launch of the monitoring of the rule of law, democracy and fundamental rights situation in hungary in order to assess the potential systemic violation of the values on which the eu is founded, am i interested to know whether monitoring by the european commission has been carried out and assessments of the current situation in hungary have been made in the light of all the above?
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the european parliament resolution on the situation in hungary the follow-up to the adoption of the ep resolution of 10.6.2015, given the concerns related to the social and political processes taking place in recent years, and in particular in view of the changes in the legislative field that have intensified in recent months. legislative and political changes give rise to concerns regarding the rule of law, democracy and fundamental rights. there is a trend away from the fundamental democratic values on which the concept of the european union is based. the commission should, within its competence, pay attention to ensuring the consistency of national legislation with the eu's fundamental values and documents. the current approach of the commission to the situation in hungary is unsatisfactory and limited to marginal, technical aspects of the change in legislation. i support the initiative of the european citizens' initiative on the triggering of article 7 of the eu treaty. in addition, more attention needs to be paid to the problems related to the migrant crisis and rising xenophobia.
written. ‒ taking into account the previous statement of the european commission that the conditions for the activation of the rule of law framework in the case of hungary are not met, i cannot support this resolution which, without any basis and without any new elements, calls again on the commission to activate the first phase of the eu rule of law framework. the commission has already been monitoring the situation in hungary and other member states and is responding if violations of the rule of law, democracy and fundamental rights are found and proven. there are problems with the implementation of migration policies, but given the refugee and migration crisis that we are facing, and that we still don't know how to deal with, i think hungary is no exception. i consider this resolution to be a very dangerous and very hasty decision that undermines the sovereignty of the member states. to activate the instruments required by this resolution we must have much stronger arguments and stronger evidence. these measures are strong and cannot be taken lightly.
written. ‒ it is clear that democracy and the rule of law have been at a low level in hungary in recent years and that the european commission should provide its assessment of the situation as soon as possible so that further action can be taken. when it comes to the european union's core values, any hesitation to sanction their violation is a dangerous precedent. in particular, media freedom and pluralism, judicial independence, the principle of non-discrimination and tolerance, the protection of marginalised and minority groups, with particularly debilitating treatment of members of the roma national minority, lgbt persons and refugees, are seriously undermined in hungary. in view of the above, i support the adoption of this resolution.
written. ‒ the european parliament adopted a resolution on hungary on 10 june 2015, in which it asked the commission to urgently investigate the situation regarding respect for democracy and fundamental human rights and the potential threat that could lead to a violation of article 7 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union - by this resolution parliament asks the commission to provide a response to the previous one. since the task of maintaining and ensuring compliance with the treaty by the member states of the union is the exclusive competence of the european commission (under article 17 of the treaty), i believe that the same should be done by way of a pre-established procedure through the european commission, rather than by collecting cheap political points from certain groups in the european parliament.
mr president, i would like to begin by congratulating rapporteur predi on this report which i believe has improved the quality of these annual reports on human rights in the world, and article 21 of the lisbon treaty commits the european union to a common external security policy guided by the principles of democracy, the rule of law, the universality and indivisibility of human rights. and in that sense, i particularly welcome the adoption of the ambitious 2013 sustainable development plan and the leading role played by the european union in that process. now, of course, it is necessary to ensure that this programme, its monitoring measures and its implementation are really based on a human rights approach. this is why the epp club within the development committee insists on ensuring the promotion of human rights through development policy. we insist that together with our partners, we annually monitor progress and results related to sustainable development goal 16 which promotes the building of inclusive societies based on respect for human rights and democratic principles. this sustainable objective must be the priority of our foreign and, therefore, development policy, and it is here that we need to focus the resources of the european development fund and the development cooperation instrument. in this sense, i think we should not be tempted to use the 'more for more' approach, but of course, we should interpret this principle in such a way that it guarantees the fundamental human rights and dignity of every human person.
mr president, today's report on the 2014 annual report on human rights and democracy in the world and the european union's policy in this area was prepared by our colleague mr preda and i congratulate him on this report and on the negotiations with all the groups. i consider the practice of adopting annual human rights reports to be a very useful mechanism for screening the human rights situation in the world and i believe that human rights must be an integral part of all instruments of our foreign policy and the promotion of our influence towards third countries, and especially in the context of institution building states in those countries that are the subjects of our development policy. i also appreciate the efforts of the special rapporteur on human rights and mr lambrinidis' representative. we saw that he was active and on occasion he selects the prize for this year's sakharov prize. our resolution also clearly underlines the european union's commitment to the 2015-2019 action plan on human rights and democracy, which calls for us to be a responsible, leading actor on the global stage when it comes to protecting human rights and implementing our foreign policy. i also expect that, in the context of the long-term process of accession of the european union to the european convention for the protection of human rights, that process will be completed and their protection strengthened at the internal level as well. as regards certain countries, i would like to highlight the situation in ukraine, particularly in the occupied areas of crimea and donbas, where both the delegation for ukraine and the subcommittee on human rights and the committee on foreign affairs have repeatedly warned of the worrying human rights violations in these temporarily occupied areas. we also take into account that 60 million people are on the move. the refugee and migrant crisis is one of the biggest problems in this context. we've seen how many human rights violations there have been. finally, i am pleased to note that the annex to this report also mentions our resolution of last year on the seselj case. it is good for a country that has opened negotiations to reflect on the importance of protecting human rights and suppressing hate speech.
mr. president, mr. stylianides, a few days ago we marked the international day of human rights, the day on which the universal declaration of human rights was signed. it was the first time in history that the right to life, liberty and security was recognized, and we consider this date a milestone in modern history, as the world came together to end the genocide that began during world war ii once and for all. sadly, many countries quickly forgot what they signed up for and the wars of the second half of the 20th century. but it's not just the suffering of war that has challenged the essence of this declaration. both the economic collapse and the financial crisis that struck the world a few years ago have reignited the human rights issue. these are all inevitable issues that we encounter every day. so i want to thank mr predi who has been working continuously on this report and who has produced a solid report for 2014. we are witnessing large numbers of refugees fleeing their homes because of violence and bad economic and political situations, all in search of refuge. these situations can be easy prey for human rights violations. i express my concern and solidarity with the large number of refugees and migrants who suffer serious human rights violations as victims of conflict, in networks of illegal immigrants, in human trafficking, etc. i believe that we urgently need to ensure peace, security, sustainable growth for all countries, free and fair trade, reduction of poverty rates and protection of human rights, and in particular the rights of children under the united nations charter, but also the protection of women's rights, which we should not forget in this situation. and as for freedom of expression, we know that it is the foundation of democracy and i thank mr predi again for taking all these issues into account in his report. i hope we can continue on that trail.
mr president, i would also like to begin by thanking my colleague, mr dan predo, for his exceptional work. i personally consider the human rights agenda to be one of the key agendas of the european union. this agenda is as important to me as the development of the internal market or other, say, economic benefits of cooperation between the countries of the european union. who but the european union should be the watchdog of human rights in the context of world peace and alert countries where human rights are not respected to the fact that human rights are being violated. i consider it particularly important to have an international debate with third countries on fundamental human rights, that is to say the right to life, health and dignity, but also on fundamental political rights such as the right to freedom of expression. it has been mentioned here several times today. as i said, i'm very happy that the material is on the table today, i consider it balanced. i say this also because i am a member of parliament for the czech republic, where the first freely elected president, václav havel, considered the human rights agenda to be an important instrument of international politics and international diplomacy. as a lawyer and former minister of justice, i consider one topic particularly important, and that is the issue of the fight against the death penalty. i'm very glad that this topic is mentioned separately here, that the fight against the death penalty has a separate chapter. it is very sad that in recent years the death penalty has been increasing in the world and that the three largest countries where the death penalty is most frequently used, such as china, iran and saudi arabia, are using it more and more, not less. they are here to criticise saudi arabia, which is cooperating with the european union but has done nothing in the field of human rights and criminal law, and the death penalty is being carried out in a medieval, particularly repulsive manner. al-nimr's case was mentioned earlier today, and he's sentenced to death by crucifixion.
mr. president, mr. commissioner, i'm glad that the rapporteur has recognized the problem of persecution of christians because we reached a sad record in 2014. nearly a hundred million christians live in fear of the consequences that they may face simply for practicing their faith. the 2015 data could be even worse. so we must do everything in our power to stop the genocide of christians. i would also like to draw attention to the protection of the rights of national minorities, in the context of the enlargement policy and the opening of negotiations with serbia, since the situation of croats in serbia is worryingly difficult and a few days ago serbia abolished the only radio station in the croatian language. from a value point of view, i find some points of contention in the report that i do not think should be here. the promotion of gender ideology and abortion as an integral part of women's sexual and reproductive rights is not in line with the values that the peoples of europe inherit. the right to life is a fundamental human right and it is a right that we must protect first.
mr. president, there are a lot of human rights violations in the world. this report makes that clear. however, thank god, there are many human rights fighters in the world and we have to join them. we must remain true to our foundations, the foundations on which we build our european union, the foundations of the protection of the classic human rights, those of minorities, of languages, of religions, of everything that is in the foundations of the european union, but we must also have the strength to recognize the new dimensions of human rights. and especially when we talk in today's current times about the rights of migrants, about climate migrants, about what climate change brings as a human rights need, about the extreme poverty that we have in the european union as well. all of this is a new dimension of human rights for me.
mr president, what we need to say to ourselves for once is that we were all taken by surprise by this migrant crisis and that, of course, in this context we were often able to improvise and make decisions that were not systematic. because we have to tell ourselves that the dublin system doesn't work, it doesn't exist. that's perfectly clear. but i want to make it very clear that because we were unprepared we cannot accept everything that is happening on the hungarian border or what was happening on the hungarian border, everything that is happening today on the slovenian border with croatia. we cannot accept mr. tusk's statements which are completely inappropriate. in that context, i expect to reward countries like croatia, but also serbia and macedonia that have done very good things for the arrival of migrants in europe. after all, the right to freedom and the right to asylum are really for every human being.
mr. president, we have often discussed the rights of refugees and migrants and asylum seekers during this crisis, and now is the time to finally talk about the obligations that come with those rights. the most important obligation is, of course, to respect the constitution and the laws of the member state in which asylum seekers are currently present. i'm aware of the terrible situation these people have escaped from. i also understand that some of them are not adapted to our way of life and the laws that follow it. but i still think we should treat them as our own citizens, no special treatment. the law must be equal for all. although the situation with migrants and asylum seekers is very chaotic at the moment, there is no reason why we should suspend our own laws or tolerate wrongdoing. all those who want to live in europe must know that their adaptation to our way of life begins the moment they set foot on our soil.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the main objective of the dayton agreement was to stop the bloody war, and a just peace, the building of a modern state was a secondary objective, and that is what actually happened. the war has been stopped, but the conditions for a stable and functioning state in bosnia and herzegovina have not been created. the central institutions of the state are very weak and often challenged, thus making it even more difficult for the central institutions of that state to function. the return of exiles to bosnia and herzegovina is marginal. thus, according to church data, only 4% of the pre-war croats live on the territory of republika srpska. the number of bosniaks in the territory of republika srpska is somewhat more favourable, but far from satisfactory. a similar situation, not as severe as in republika srpska, is with the return of exiles to the entire territory of bosnia and herzegovina. i welcome the new approach of the european union which should enable bosnia and herzegovina to become a member of this elite society. i also welcome the reform plan adopted in bosnia and herzegovina with the assistance of the european union and look forward to the implementation, the proper implementation and the implementation of these reforms. it is certain that reforms of public administration, economic reforms and reforms of other sectors of public life will help bosnia and herzegovina to become a better state, but for real stability and unity of this asymmetrically designed state, constitutional changes are needed, namely changes to the dayton constitution and this on the principles of federalism, decentralization and subsidiarity.
mr. president, it's been 20 years since the signing of the agreement that ended the war in bosnia and herzegovina. dayton was a temporary solution that was supposed to stop the bloodshed, and then in peaceful conditions to experience an upgrade that would allow bosnia and herzegovina to develop into a normally ordered state. many today still call for such an upgrade, unaware that it has already occurred on several occasions. namely, with more than 300 directives that have never been ratified by any body of the state of bosnia and herzegovina, various high representatives have significantly changed what was signed in dayton without the possibility of appeal by citizens and their legitimate representatives. so if we are to revise or significantly upgrade the dayton peace agreement, we must first of all revise the role of the high representative, who, without any democratic legitimacy, adopts directives that have greater force than the original agreement. i hope that in a joint resolution we will adopt my wording in which i ask that any future restructuring of bosnia and herzegovina guarantee true equality to all three constituent peoples. this means that the high representative will no longer have a place in that country, at least not with the powers he has so far, because it is he who has most often and without any consequences violated the principle of equality by unilateral decisions and disturbed the difficult-to-achieve political balance between the representatives of the three nations.
mr. president, 20 years after the signing of the dayton agreement, we can say that its achievement is the peaceful coexistence of the citizens of bosnia and herzegovina. the eu and its member states will continue to work together to ensure that the eu and its member states are able to implement the relevant international instruments and instruments, including the unfccc, in a way that is consistent with the principles of the charter of the united nations. but today in bosnia and herzegovina we must look for solutions to social and economic problems. during my recent visit to sarajevo as part of the delegation of the green/european free alliance club, on the occasion of the anniversary of the signing of the general peace agreement in bosnia and herzegovina, i met with young people, regardless of their nationality, who pointed out to me the social problems their peers face on a daily basis due to the unpromising political situation in the country. we are all aware of the burden of the past that overshadows the burning problems of the present. the political system, burdened with itself, so complicated that neither the citizens of bosnia and herzegovina understand it, and probably not even its politicians, leaves no much needed space for the fight against unemployment and poverty. every day bosnia and herzegovina loses its young people who leave the country in search of a secure future that they cannot find in their own country. bosnia and herzegovina is experiencing a demographic collapse. the european union must therefore call on the political elite of bosnia and herzegovina to take responsibility and reform the political system so that bosnia and herzegovina can finally embark on the path towards eu membership.
mr president, with this resolution, we in the european parliament mark an important anniversary for bosnia and herzegovina, the european union and the international community. and it's a compromise between thinking that dayton is still a good enough framework for bosnia and herzegovina and attitudes that see it as an increasingly constricted framework for the development of the country. the signing of the dayton peace accords was a victory of diplomacy over war, but it was a very belated and costly victory. one hundred thousand killed, two million displaced persons and enormous material destruction are the direct consequences of the war in bosnia and herzegovina and the war against bosnia and herzegovina. the failure of the international community to identify in time the causes, motives and protagonists of the war has significantly affected the character and course of the conflict and the circumstances of the conclusion of the peace agreement. the consequences of what was done, and what was not done, are still being felt today. however, the real political challenges for bosnia and herzegovina at this moment are within the country itself. unlike some 20 years ago, her neighbors are clearly supporting her now. the prospect of membership, as we in croatia know well, implies a serious work of change and adaptation to european standards. especially in a multinational, highly complex state community where there is always a need to talk about upgrading the system, especially if it's about obvious flaws. bosnia and herzegovina is not, and cannot be, an exception. analyses suggest that they have weakened almost all the institutions of the international community created to implement the peace agreement and oversee the key processes of reconstruction and functioning of the country. but the new institutions are not yet functional, especially those that will be formed as a result of the adjustment of the approach to the european union. how long the often-mentioned transition from the dayton to the brussels phase will last depends on whether the european union will keep bosnia and herzegovina in the focus of its policy, and whether the authorities in bosnia and herzegovina will actually confirm accession to the european union with a policy that is substantially different from what they have been doing so far.
mr president, i once said: 'if bosnia and herzegovina cannot survive, then neither can the european union, because it is possible to live in diversity and diversity is wealth.' perhaps that statement was too strong and too optimistic because the divisions are deep. today, the divisions between the peoples and citizens of bosnia and herzegovina are still very deep. however, these divisions can be overcome. i believe that deeply. bosniaks, serbs and croats clash over many issues. but their conflict is no longer hostility, their main enemy today is unemployment, social problems, the departure of young people from bosnia and herzegovina. these are the key enemies of bosnia and herzegovina. if dayton brought peace, then we, the european union, must bring a perspective to bosnia and herzegovina, and a european perspective.
mr president, mr minister schmit, ladies and gentlemen, in the summer of 1995, after joint operations by croatian and bosnian forces, the strategic situation on the ground was reversed, a new srebrenica in bihac was prevented, the war in bosnia and herzegovina was brought to an end, and the peace agreement ending the war in bosnia and herzegovina was signed and initialled, first in dayton and then in paris. the highly complex institutional structure established by the agreement makes its upgrading necessary for the transformation of bosnia and herzegovina into a modern and functional european state capable of integrating into the european union. we organized a big conference last week to celebrate the 20th anniversary of this agreement. we also invited the president of our party, daula, high representative mogherini, commissioner hahn and representatives of the us administration, and sent a strong message that bosnia and herzegovina must be high on the list of priorities of the european union. the reforms to be undertaken through the implementation of the stabilisation and association agreement should create an environment in which bosnia and herzegovina can very quickly make a credible application for membership of the european union, and we will give it our full support in this process. we also want to remove the taboo on the discussion of a better constitutional structure of the country based on the principles of federalism, decentralization, subsidiarity and legitimate representation, to which a fair new electoral law will contribute. the eusr shall be responsible for ensuring the effective implementation of the mandate of the high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. i strongly condemn any undermining and threatening of territorial integrity, and in particular the announcement of a referendum that would destabilise the country, leading to its further disintegration. i therefore believe that we must support bosnia and herzegovina on its path to the european union, as well as all its constituent peoples and citizens.
mr. president, we all agree that the dayton accords were the foundation for peace in bosnia, but they are not the solution for the future of bosnia. there are many elements that speak in favor of this. it is unacceptable that one people elects another people's representatives. therefore, it is necessary to establish the equality of all three peoples, croats, bosniaks and serbs without domination. the state must function at full capacity and therefore it is necessary to amend the constitution to solve the case that no one mentions anymore, sejdić-finci. it's also fair to say that we need a new election law. there are also positive developments, such as the stabilisation and association agreement and its implementation. we need to ensure that economic progress is made so that young people can get jobs as soon as possible in their own country, which i am convinced has sufficient capacity and natural resources to make this happen. for us here in the eu, it's important to keep bosnia high on the agenda. i am personally convinced that the euro-atlantic path is the only path for bih. as for our neighbours, specifically croatia, we are extending a hand of friendship and genuine support in the reform process on this path to the eu, but the key lies with the politicians from bosnia and herzegovina themselves. i note that all the representatives from the croatian delegation have generally responded and i can freely say that we are the best informed about the situation in bih. we are all convinced and agreed that bih has a future and that it is time to talk about the future of bih, and not constantly about the causes.
madam president, integration into international organizations is a key way of ensuring the stabilization of bosnia and herzegovina. accession to the european union and nato brings with it a number of institutional strengths. the prospects offered by membership in these organisations need to be exploited to implement serious reforms and adjustments with a view to establishing a quality institutional framework for the peaceful coexistence and progress of all citizens of bosnia and herzegovina. the dayton agreement is far from perfect and therefore it is necessary for all parties to agree on its upgrade which will solve the problem of institutional stagnation and the position of croats who are constituent people only on paper under the current arrangement and who suffer most from the inability to exercise their rights. the only acceptable path for the development of bosnia and herzegovina is a system in which all peoples will be able to exercise all the rights that are due to them and in which two peoples will not out-vote or out-do one people. the upgrading of the dayton agreement must be carried out so that the croatian people in bosnia and herzegovina is truly constituent in political and socioeconomic life without subordination to other constituent peoples.
on behalf of the alde club. madam president, i would like to begin by saying that this report comes at a very real moment when the security situation of the european union in its southern and eastern neighbourhood has deteriorated substantially and dramatically. of course, it is possible to say that in that sense this report comes too late. the european union's external and trade policies must serve to achieve its objectives, but also to affirm the democratic values on which the european union is founded. if that is so, and it is, then the arms export policy of the european union member states should serve that purpose in particular. but even in this area, as in the field of standardisation of arms, joint procurement and production of arms and research in the field of armaments, the european union unfortunately lacks a clear, uniform and common policy. europe must set high standards for arms sales so that it can also advocate for those other countries, the big arms exporters, to adhere to those high standards and so that those arms do not fall into the wrong hands. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the new regulation to include the use of the term 'common market' to cover all products and services which are not covered by the regulation.
madam chairman, thank you very much. it was about time we got this report and the proposed new regulations. they're killing us with our own weapons. i'm aware that any criminal and any terrorist can get their hands on a weapon that doesn't just have to be our weapon, but kills us with our weapon. our people in the european union are being killed by weapons produced in the european union. so i strongly welcome the fact that we want to create a body that will control arms, that will, if nothing else, create assumptions that everything that is produced in the european union will at least end up where we think it can end up, much safer than it is today. in that context, i believe the high commissioner will be able to steer that policy and that body and bring more security to our citizens.
mr president, my generation in croatia 40 years ago looked with sympathy on the desire for freedom of the vietnamese people. later, many things changed, and many of us were very disappointed with everything that was happening in vietnam and in that region. today, fortunately, we have hope again that things are changing for the better, because we see the desire for opening up vietnam, for cooperation in a wider range of countries where it is located, including the eu and the us, which is of course a great shift in vietnamese politics. that is why i support this agreement and all that the commission is doing in its efforts to bring our two economies closer together and i look forward to vietnam's economic growth, the scientific cooperation we expect with scientists from the eu and vietnam, i look forward to the cultural cooperation that is being announced. i think such a comprehensive agreement could be beneficial to both sides. however, we must bear in mind that vietnam is still very far from the foundations of the eu, such as issues of media freedom or human rights. i support the agreement, i want it to be successful, but let's also keep in mind everything that doesn't suit us in these times.
mr president, i welcome any agreement by which the eu extends its cooperation, especially the agreement concerning the socialist republic of vietnam as a very poor and developing country, but at the same time very important in the region of south-east asia, 25 years after the establishment of official relations. i am pleased that this part of the world is also opening up to international cooperation through the trans-pacific partnership agreement, i.e. by allowing foreign direct investment in vietnam. i expect the signing of this agreement to improve relations between vietnam and the eu, allow for the democratization and progress of that country, but also improve eu cooperation with the wider region of southeast asia.
mr president, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, what has been done today and what the patent office has done is leading to a great danger because it puts our common values in question. it calls into question the biodiversity of the european continent. it also raises food safety concerns. it calls into question the freedom of breeding. we as the european parliament must be united and make it clear to the commission that we expect the patent office to withdraw its decisions because it must be known that life simply cannot be patented. (the speaker agreed to answer the question by raising the blue card on the basis of rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure.)
answer the question posed by raising the blue card. first of all, merry christmas to you. i am absolutely convinced that we need a common european plant protection because i think it is now clear how interconnected our industry is. i do not want to diminish the importance and the role that the member states should have in this area because they too can be extremely conservative in biodiversity, but i am sure that one principle of joint cooperation at european and national level must be maintained in this area of business.
mr. president, farmers throughout history, and even today, are the world's first seed growers. their role is important for food security, biodiversity, adaptation to climate change and therefore farmers must retain the right to grow their own seeds, adapted to local conditions. plant varieties are normally protected by plant variety rights, which is a better form of intellectual property because it allows farmers to use protected varieties to create new ones. patents, on the other hand, block the flow of genetic resources, hinder research and lead to monopolies. european legislation does not allow the patenting of animal and plant varieties and of biological processes necessary for the production of plants and animals. i am strongly opposed to the patenting of life and am outraged by the decision of the european patent office which ruled in the case of 'tomatoes and broccoli' that plant products derived from conventional farming can be protected as patents. i consider such a decision illegal and unethical and i expect the european commission to react immediately. i'm betting that farmers will be allowed to grow their own seeds without interference because they've been the guardians of it for thousands of years.
mr. president, ibrahim halawa is an irish citizen. citizen of a member state of the european union and it is our duty, in addition to this debate which is necessary in this parliament, to ask the high commissioner and our committee on cooperation with egypt to immediately put on the table a debate with our egyptian friends on how to free mr halawa and how to prevent him from experiencing the worst, which is the death penalty. egypt is our partner, egypt is our friend, we want to cooperate with egypt, but egypt also has its obligations to us, especially when those obligations are related to our citizens, the citizens of our ireland, our member countries. we expect president al-sisi to decree a resolution of this situation because it would be the best way and the best indication that egypt wants to cooperate with the european union.
written. - i support the establishment of a commission of inquiry. the scandal of the fitting of exhaust gas tests is in fact an attack on the health and consumer rights of citizens and the economy of the european union and its member states. the release of nitrous oxide was staged, which is particularly harmful to the liver, lungs and blood counts of citizens. they were cheated by selling more expensive cars that were supposedly less harmful to the environment. consumer trust is built over years and lost overnight. it is therefore necessary to carry out a thorough and transparent investigation of the whole case and to set up a new system to measure exhaust gases while driving.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the proposal for a decision to set up a special committee on emission measurements in the automotive sector, its powers, composition and duration because i believe that new measures and supervision are needed to prevent repeated consumer fraud and to prevent and remedy environmental damage.
written. ‒ i consider this decision of the european parliament on the establishment, powers, numerical composition and duration of the mandate of the committee of inquiry into emission measurements in the automotive sector to be superfluous and unnecessary. in this particular case, it is the irresponsible behaviour of one of the european companies, and the overall level of damage to the european automotive industry is not yet fully known. the industry and the sector as a whole depend on millions of employees and their family members across europe. the commission considers that the measures in question are imputable to the state and that the commission should have examined whether the measures in question were necessary and proportionate to remedy the situation. as i have emphasized many times, i believe that unacceptable and irresponsible behaviour should be severely sanctioned and the test methods adapted to the needs of today. i am pleased that the european commission is preparing a new act on real driving emissions testing of passenger cars and i regret that the possibility of fraud was not taken seriously enough and that the fraud was not detected in time. changing the minds of those in charge in companies and preventing fraud can only be achieved by imposing strict and deterrent penalties that fraudsters will have to face.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the draft legislative resolution of the european parliament on the draft council decision on the conclusion, on behalf of the european union and its member states, of the protocol to the framework agreement on comprehensive partnership and cooperation between the european union and its member states, of the one part, and the socialist republic of vietnam, of the other part, to take account of the accession of the republic of croatia to the european union, as this would allow for the full participation of croatia in the framework agreement in question. i believe that croatia can benefit from a more intensive involvement in the european union's activities in the south east asia region and thereby contribute to the development of its own priorities, but also to the strategic objectives envisaged by the agreement.
written. ‒ the framework agreement on comprehensive partnership and cooperation between the european union and the socialist republic of vietnam provides a framework for cooperation in political and economic terms. i supported the recommendation to sign the protocol on technical adjustments to the agreement in view of the accession of the republic of croatia to the european union.
written. ‒ i support the protocol to the framework agreement on comprehensive partnership and cooperation between the eu and vietnam which takes into account the accession of the republic of croatia to the european union in july 2013. the framework agreement on comprehensive partnership and cooperation between the european union and its member states, of the one part, and vietnam, of the other part, was signed on 27 june 2012. the proposed protocol includes the republic of croatia as a contracting party to the agreement and commits the eu to provide the original version of the treaty in the croatian language. in the accession negotiations, croatia has undertaken to assume all the obligations of the european union towards third countries and by its membership of the european union it has assumed the obligation to accept existing international treaties concluded by the union. i support the inclusion of croatia in all eu international agreements.
written. ‒ having regard to the draft protocol to the framework agreement on comprehensive partnership and cooperation between the european union and its member states, of the one part, and the socialist republic of vietnam, of the other part, to take account of the accession of the republic of croatia to the european union (13078/2014, council's request for consent pursuant to articles 207 and 209, and article 218 (6) (2) (a) of the treaty on the functioning of the european union (c8-0282/2014) and the recommendation of the committee on foreign affairs, i agree to the adoption of this agreement to take account of croatia's membership after more than two years in vietnam-eu relations.
written. i agree with the recommendation on the draft council decision on the conclusion, on behalf of the european union and its member states, of the protocol to the framework agreement on comprehensive partnership and cooperation between the european union and its member states, of the one part, and the socialist republic of vietnam, of the other part, to take account of the accession of the republic of croatia to the european union, by ms kalnieta. the republic of croatia acceded to the european union on 1 july 2013. in accordance with its act of accession, croatia accedes to international agreements signed or concluded by the european union and its member states by means of protocols to those agreements. the agreement was signed in brussels on 27 june 2012 and, although not yet ratified by the member states, will encourage cooperation on a wide range of economic and social issues.
written. ‒ i have supported the framework agreement on comprehensive partnership and cooperation between the european union and its member states, of the one part, and the socialist republic of vietnam, of the other part, to take account of the accession of the republic of croatia to the european union, taking into account the new situation and the recommendation of the foreign affairs committee.
the european union and its member states shall cooperate with each other in the implementation of the schengen acquis and in the implementation of the schengen acquis in accordance with the provisions of the treaties. the framework agreement on comprehensive partnership and cooperation between the european union and its states, of the one part, and the socialist republic of vietnam, of the other part, was signed in brussels on 27 june 2012. the agreement is currently in the process of ratification and has not yet entered into force. the proposed protocol includes the republic of croatia as a contracting party to the agreement and commits the eu to ensure the authentic croatian language version of the agreement. i support this proposal because i believe vietnam is a vital economy with over 90 million consumers and a growing workforce. its market has great potential and offers numerous opportunities for european exports in the fields of agriculture, industry and services.
written. ‒ the purpose of the proposed council decision is to adopt the protocol to the framework agreement on comprehensive partnership and cooperation between the european union and its member states, of the one part, and the socialist republic of vietnam, of the other part, to take account of the accession of the republic of croatia to the european union. as the croatian representative, i support this recommendation as the republic of croatia has accepted all the rights and obligations provided for in the treaty by its accession to the union, and the adoption of the protocol in this case introduces changes relating to the linguistic adaptation as well as to obligations of a technical nature. the comprehensive partnership agreement between the union and its member states, of the one part, and vietnam, of the other part, was signed in brussels in 2012 and this protocol also allows the republic of croatia to consider amendments to the agreement and related texts in the croatian language as a contracting party on an equal footing with the other member states. that's why i voted yes.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the draft legislative resolution of the european parliament on the draft council decision on the conclusion, on behalf of the union, of the framework agreement on comprehensive partnership and cooperation between the european union and its member states, of the one part, and the socialist republic of vietnam, of the other part, as it gives its consent to the conclusion of the agreement. the implementation of this agreement shall contribute to mutually beneficial and strategic cooperation in various fields and in international economic forums. in addition, eu-asean cooperation is being strengthened, which can further strengthen the role of the european union in the region. the commission has also received comments from the united kingdom and the united states on the application of the union state aid rules to the measures in force in the united kingdom.
written. ‒ i supported the recommendation of mep barbara lochbihler to give its consent to the eu-vietnam framework agreement on comprehensive partnership and cooperation signed on 27 june 2012, as the agreement opens the door to better political and economic relations between the member states and vietnam and eu involvement in south east asia. the agreement defines a partnership on economic and trade cooperation with the ultimate aim of signing a free trade agreement, but also cooperation in the field of human rights, climate change and the fight against terrorism and organised crime.
written. ‒ i support the agreement on the eu-vietnam framework agreement on comprehensive partnership and cooperation because it contains two fundamental provisions. first, it establishes stronger economic links between the european union and vietnam and opens up new markets in the east for the european union. it also allows the european union to provide financial assistance to vietnam under a development assistance programme. it is crucial that the european union continues to insist on the literal implementation of international treaties and conventions that ensure respect for human rights and freedoms. the fight against other threats to the functioning of the state and thus its citizens, such as terrorism, corruption, crime, natural disasters and the like, remains a top priority. assistance to vietnam should be provided in a number of areas, in particular in taxation, labour, employment and social transfer, health, environment, climate change adaptation and science and technology policies. quality sectoral cooperation is the key to vietnam's development.
written. ‒ having regard to the draft framework agreement on comprehensive partnership and cooperation between the european union and its member states, of the one part, and the socialist republic of vietnam, of the other part (18204/2010), the council's request for assent pursuant to articles 207, 209, and 218 (6), (2) (a) of the treaty on the functioning of the european union (c8-0062/2015) and the recommendation of the committee on foreign affairs, i agree with and support the decision to conclude the framework agreement on comprehensive partnership and cooperation between the eu and vietnam.
written. i agree with the proposal for a council decision on the conclusion of the framework agreement on comprehensive partnership and cooperation between the european union and its member states, of the one part, and the socialist republic of vietnam, of the other part, by ms lochbihler. the european union and the socialist republic of vietnam have signed a series of agreements over the past 30 years to regulate their relationship. this agreement will replace the existing legal framework governed by the 1995 eu-vietnam agreement and the 1980 agreement on cooperation between the european economic community and the member states of the association of southeast asian nations (asean). , which in 1999 became vietnam. i believe that this agreement will contribute to the european union's greater economic and political involvement in south east asia. the agreement will increase cooperation with vietnam on a wide range of policy issues, such as taxation, migration, health, environment, climate change, energy, education and culture, labour, employment and social policy, science and technology and transport. i believe this is the next step in increasing the european union's activity in south east asia and intensifying cooperation with asean countries.
written. ‒ i support this report, taking into account the draft council decision and the recommendation of the committee on foreign affairs. i join the rapporteur's call for the national parliaments of the member states of the european union to ratify the agreement with the socialist republic of vietnam as soon as possible.
‒ on 5 november 2015, the trans-pacific partnership (tpp) agreement was finalised by twelve pacific rim countries, including vietnam, creating a new trading bloc that accounts for 36% of global gdp and could have far-reaching effects on world trade. the eu and vietnam have signed a memorandum of understanding on the establishment of a joint committee on the implementation of the eu-vietnam agreement on trade in services. these relations quickly expanded beyond trade and aid to become more comprehensive. the agreement establishes a wide range of future relations to further enhance cooperation in addressing global and regional challenges, such as good governance and the fight against corruption, and economic and social progress, taking into account the principle of sustainable development, disarmament and weapons of mass destruction, and the fight against terrorism. the eu is vietnam's largest export market and, together with its member states, the largest provider of official development assistance to vietnam. i support the european parliament legislative resolution on the council decision on the conclusion, on behalf of the union, of the framework agreement on comprehensive partnership and cooperation between the european union and its member states, of the one part, and the socialist republic of vietnam, of the other part, in view of the high strategic importance of vietnam as a key partner of the eu in south-east asia and asean, and of the comprehensiveness of the agreement and the cooperation envisaged.
written. ‒ i have given my consent to the framework agreement on comprehensive partnership and cooperation between the european union and the socialist republic of vietnam because i consider that this partnership is based on the interests of both sides. the parties agree to cooperate in the implementation of the agreement and to cooperate in the implementation of the agreement. on the other hand, we cannot ignore the situation of fundamental human rights in vietnam and the fact that more than 500 prisoners are awaiting execution. i therefore consider it extremely important that this ratification calls on vietnam to respect human rights and to abolish the death penalty. as vietnam has made significant progress in the last two decades in meeting the millennium development goals, poverty reduction, economic development, social security, employment, education and health, i believe that this agreement will be of long-term benefit to the european union and i therefore voted in favour of it.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the proposal for a non-legislative resolution of the european parliament on the draft council decision on the conclusion, on behalf of the union, of the framework agreement on comprehensive partnership and cooperation between the european union and its member states, of the one part, and the socialist republic of vietnam, of the other part, as this further strengthens eu cooperation with vietnam. vietnam is of strategic importance to the european union as its main partner in south-east asia and asean, and furthermore this agreement will further strengthen joint work in the areas of human rights protection, visa regime, capacity building of vietnam in promoting the rule of law and others. however, there is still a need for greater participation of citizens in the democratic functioning of the state, to allow full freedom of speech, to reduce all forms of discrimination, to end corruption, and to reform the judiciary.
written. ‒ i supported the recommendation of mep barbara lochbihler to give its consent to the eu-vietnam framework agreement on comprehensive partnership and cooperation signed on 27 june 2012, as the agreement opens the door to better political and economic relations between the member states and vietnam and eu involvement in south east asia. the agreement defines a partnership on economic and trade cooperation with the ultimate aim of signing a free trade agreement, but also cooperation in the field of human rights, climate change and the fight against terrorism and organised crime.
written. ‒ i supported this report containing the proposal for a non-legislative resolution on the draft council decision on the conclusion of the framework agreement on comprehensive partnership and cooperation between the european union and vietnam. the commercial and strategic importance of vietnam is unquestionable. however, i am concerned about the great backlog of vietnam in protecting human rights and freedoms. this should not be overlooked or neglected merely to achieve an economic benefit for both parties. vietnam must undergo deep system reforms to become sufficiently functional and establish durable mechanisms to protect human rights and ensure their implementation. this means that the governing structures will have to take into account the recommendations not to violate the rights of minorities, not to imprison activists for fundamental human rights, to allow the activity of the opposition and to create the basis for a plural society. the union must demonstrate external consistency in the implementation of its policy and ensure that its partners uphold the principles, and in particular the values, it cherishes internally.
written. ‒ the comprehensive partnership and cooperation agreement aims to establish a modern, broad and mutually beneficial partnership based on common interests and principles such as equality, mutual respect, the rule of law and human rights. in 2015, we mark the 25th anniversary of eu-vietnam relations, which have rapidly expanded beyond trade and aid to become more comprehensive. the agreement establishes a wide range of future relations to further enhance cooperation in addressing global and regional challenges, such as good governance and the fight against corruption, and economic and social progress, taking into account the principle of sustainable development, disarmament and weapons of mass destruction, and the fight against terrorism. it is commendable that the future fta includes the following elements: a chapter on trade and sustainable development, obligations to respect fundamental labour standards and ilo conventions, mutual obligations to respect fundamental workers' rights, commitments to support the conservation and sustainable management of natural resources, with particular emphasis on corporate social responsibility and fair and ethical trading systems, thus confirming its value and scope. in view of the above, i support the recommendation to conclude a framework agreement on comprehensive partnership and cooperation between the eu and vietnam.
written. i agree with the report containing the proposal for a non-legislative resolution on the draft council decision on the conclusion, on behalf of the union, of the framework agreement on comprehensive partnership and cooperation between the european union and its member states, of the one part, and the socialist republic of vietnam, of the other part. the european union is the largest export market for vietnam, which has pursued a strong pro-european policy over the past 20 years and has actively cooperated with the eu on a number of policy issues. for this reason, i stress the great strategic importance of vietnam as a key partner of the european union in southeast asia and asean. the agreement sets out a number of future relations to further enhance cooperation on a number of issues, such as good governance and the fight against corruption, and economic and social progress. the agreement will also intensify dialogue on key issues such as the protection of human rights and the environment. i believe that by ratifying this agreement both the european union and vietnam would benefit economically, for example in trade and investment in creating new jobs and reducing poverty. for the reasons set out above, i call on the governments and parliaments of the member states to speed up the ratification of this agreement so that it can enter into force as soon as possible.
written. ‒ i support this report, taking into account the draft council decision and the recommendation of the committee on foreign affairs. i join the rapporteur's call for the national parliaments of the member states of the european union to ratify the agreement with the socialist republic of vietnam as soon as possible.
‒ on 5 october 2015, the trans-pacific partnership (tpp) agreement was finalised by twelve pacific rim countries, including vietnam, creating a new trading bloc that accounts for 36% of global gdp and could have far-reaching effects on world trade. in 2015, eu-vietnam relations marked their 25th anniversary; these relations have rapidly expanded beyond trade and aid to become more comprehensive. the agreement establishes a wide range of future relations to further enhance cooperation in addressing global and regional challenges, such as good governance and the fight against corruption, and economic and social progress, taking into account the principle of sustainable development, disarmament and weapons of mass destruction, and the fight against terrorism. the eu is vietnam's largest export market and, together with its member states, the largest provider of official development assistance to vietnam. i support the proposal for a non-legislative resolution of the european parliament on the council decision on the conclusion, on behalf of the union, of the framework agreement on comprehensive partnership and cooperation between the european union and its member states, of the one part, and the socialist republic of vietnam, of the other part, in view of the high strategic importance of vietnam as a key partner of the eu in south-east asia and asean, and of the comprehensiveness of the agreement and the cooperation it provides for.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the report containing the proposal for a non-legislative resolution on the draft council decision on the conclusion, on behalf of the union, of the framework agreement on comprehensive partnership and cooperation between the european union and its member states, of the one part, and the socialist republic of vietnam, of the other part. the draft eu-vietnam comprehensive partnership and cooperation agreement was signed in 2010, and the request for assent of the european parliament as well as the ratification of the agreement is based on a mutually beneficial partnership reflected in a commitment to common principles and interests such as the protection of human rights, mutual respect and the rule of law. the commission shall be assisted by the committee established by article 15 of this agreement. the council also adopted a resolution on the situation in the democratic republic of the congo (drc) and the situation in the democratic republic of the congo (drc). i therefore support this report in order to speed up the adoption of the agreement and to further improve both diplomatic and economic cooperation.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the ep's motion for a resolution on the completion of european economic and monetary union, as i believe that work on this, first and foremost, political project which will bring long-term economic benefits to eu member states, needs to be intensified and bring all the institutional and legislative prerequisites in order for a single monetary and economic union to be truly functional, operational, purposeful and economically justified. i support the completion of the european economic and monetary union and the five presidents' statement and the need for ambitious and rapid progress in strengthening the euro area. in this respect, i support the fact of a greater role and involvement of parliament.
written. ‒ strengthening and creating a genuine emu is essential, but it is equally important to extend these measures to other member states, as we do not aim to divide the euro area member states into other member states. it is for this very reason that the achievement of the objectives of economic union, namely convergence, social cohesion and prosperity, is crucial. we need to put all the instruments in place to meet these objectives, and that means strengthening the single market, broadening the scope of structural reforms and increasing investment. however, when it comes to convergence and social cohesion, we need to broaden the discussion to other areas and instruments that can make a significant contribution. we need to answer the key question of how we see the contribution of cohesion policy, namely how to strengthen it and link it more closely to the objectives of economic union. equally important issues for achieving these goals are how we see the future of the eu budget and the multiannual financial framework and how to better coordinate the different european policies in areas such as the financial system, transport, digital society, energy, innovation, rural development. i supported the european parliament's resolution on completing the european economic and monetary union, for which we need the partnership, unity and determination of the member states in implementing joint initiatives and changes, because without this there can be neither convergence nor sustainable economic growth.
written. ‒ the recommendation for the euro area set out in this declaration is part of the process of the final establishment of european economic and monetary union. parliament, the commission and national parliaments have a lot of work to do to achieve this. the new approach to the european semester, the introduction of the national competitiveness boards and the advisory european fiscal board, and a more unified representation of the euro area in international financial institutions, in particular the imf, are just some of the measures to strengthen emu and i believe that they need to be implemented first in order to make the union's economy more resilient to future financial and economic shocks and crises. i join my colleagues from the committee on economic and monetary affairs in asking the commission to clarify its steps towards the completion of emu, and in relation to the commission communication of 21 october 2015. i therefore support the motion for a resolution tabled after the oral question. we are now at the very beginning of the first phase of emu and i hope that the deadlines set will be respected. i would like to make a special appeal to national parliaments to ensure that their behaviour and compliance with the commission's recommendations will enable responsible fiscal policies to be implemented at national level. in view of the commission's communication on the steps towards the completion of emu, the 'five presidents' report', the six-pack and the two-pack and the question put to the commission, i will support this recommendation as it is a visible effort by the commission towards emu.
‒ on 21 october 2015, the commission published a package of measures to move towards the completion of economic and monetary union as part of the first phase of the programme contained in the five presidents' report. the package of measures adopted by the college of commissioners contains a new approach to the european semester, achieved, inter alia, by strengthening democratic dialogue and further improving economic governance, for example by introducing national competition committees and an advisory european fiscal board, and by more uniform representation of the euro area in international financial institutions, in particular the imf. the measures to complete the banking union, in particular through the european deposit insurance scheme, and to further reduce risk in the banking system are also listed. i support the motion for a resolution on the completion of the european economic and monetary union. i consider this a step forward, towards a true economic union in which all economies will have the necessary structural features to progress within the monetary union.
‒ the european parliament, through its oversight mechanisms, gives real legitimacy to the european semester and can ensure that it is not just a wish list but a comprehensive economic and financial plan tailored to the needs of the member states. if the house's oversight of the european semester is not fully established, its democratic legitimacy may indeed be called into question, just as its very raison d'être may be called into question, given that its recommendations are not implemented at all in a few member states or are being circumvented to the maximum extent by the national authorities. i hope that in future parliament will fully exercise its supervisory role and thus ensure the consistent application of the recommendations of the european semester in order to create a sustainable economic picture for the member states, based on private investment, structural reforms, free markets and a balanced fiscal policy.
written. ‒ i have been happy to support the elements of this report that relate to the right to choose, surrogacy and other progressive values of my political option.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the annual report on human rights and democracy in the world 2014 and the european union's policy in this area (2015/2229(ini)) which expresses deep concern that human rights and democratic values such as freedom of expression, freedom of thought, conscience and religion, and freedom of assembly and association are increasingly under threat in many parts of the world, including countries under authoritarian regimes. it also expresses concern at the shrinking public space for civil society and the increasing number of attacks on human rights defenders worldwide. respect for, and promotion of, the indivisibility and protection of the universality of human rights must continue to be the basis of the eu's external action. the report calls, inter alia, for the eu and its member states to step up their efforts to base their relations with the rest of the world on human rights and democratic values. there is a need to increase coherence between the eu's external and internal policies with regard to respect for human rights and democratic values. the annual report on human rights and democracy in the world is an indispensable tool for monitoring, reporting and discussing eu policy on these issues and a basis for planning future action. it is positive that the council adopted a new action plan on human rights and democracy in july 2015 for the period 2015-2019.
written. ‒ the 2014 annual report on human rights and democracy in the world and the european union's policy in this areaˮ has taken a major step forward in condemning surrogacy as a form of trafficking in human beings and undermining the dignity of women who are turned into birth machines and children who are turned into objects to be bought and sold. i welcome the fact that the report opposes the death penalty and that it expresses a clear position on its abolition at global level. i find it important that the report expresses concern about the increase in religious persecution in the world, especially the persecution of christians, which has reached a worrying level. however, i do not consider the report as a whole to be good and i find many questionable elements in it. its main objective has been undermined by the introduction of various quasi-rights which are not such and whose imposition i strongly oppose. some problematic articles have been adopted which i believe violate the principle of subsidiarity. the eradication of gender differences through the forced imposition of gender ideology undermines the foundations of our society, and the denial of the right to life that is manifested through the constant advocacy for access to abortion as part of women's sexual and reproductive rights and as an instrument of humanitarian aid, is not acceptable to me.
written. ‒ human rights and democratic values are at the heart of europe's political integration. the european union has the capacity and the power to act globally to promote its fundamental values, but at the same time we must act to prevent the violation of these same rights and freedoms within the union itself. every time we talk about the violation of minority rights in different parts of the world, we have to think about the often equally scandalous injustices in individual member states of the union. human rights should not be the subject of ideological wrangling, since their preservation often depends on the basic, material conditions of life of many. i therefore consider particularly important the sections of this report that focus on marginalised groups, i.e. the provisions on the rights of women and children including sexual and reproductive freedoms in conflict situations, the rights of lgbti persons, refugees and the rights of members of the roma national minority.
written. ‒ article 21 teu commits the eu to developing a common foreign and security policy (cfsp) guided by the principles of democracy, the rule of law, the universality and indivisibility of human rights and fundamental freedoms, and respect for human dignity, equality and solidarity, as well as the charter of the united nations, the eu charter of fundamental rights and international law. in accordance with article 6 teu, the european union accedes to the european convention for the protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms. respect for human rights worldwide is being called into question and threatened, and a number of authoritarian regimes are seriously challenging the universality of human rights. freedom in the world is in constant decline, and disregard for human rights leaves its mark on society and the individual. the european external action service (eeas), the commission, the council and the member states shall be responsible for the implementation of the new action plan. the commission should be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 290 tfeu concerning the conditions for the participation of third countries in the union's programmes in the field of human rights and democracy. however, given that the report also covers some aspects with which i do not entirely agree, i voted 'abstention'.
written. ‒ it is the european parliament's established practice to adopt a report on the situation of human rights in the world. this own-initiative report focuses on third countries and covers a wide range of issues, such as commentary on the european union's action plan on human rights and democracy, individual human rights strategies in individual countries of the world, human rights dialogue and financial support to them. the report also contains provisions referring to the business sector and related human rights, migration and refugees, religious freedom, the death penalty, torture and women's rights. contrary to the practice of previous years, this year's report is surprisingly focused on the essence of human rights, which i consider to be an extraordinary progress. many positive amendments, both by my group and by other groups, have been adopted and contain, for example, the positive role that the business community can play in promoting human rights, the comprehensive part of religious freedom and strengthening the human rights dialogue, which i wholeheartedly support. unfortunately, the report also contains (though to a much lesser extent than in previous years) a number of provisions that i cannot support, such as the right to universal access to safe and legal abortion and the right of the union (rather than individual member states) to take the lead in international human rights negotiations.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution on the anniversary of the dayton agreement which brought peace to the territory of bosnia and herzegovina, but did not bring the desired progress. today, bih is in a difficult political, economic and social moment. bih is lagging behind other western balkan countries in the eu integration process. the country is still burdened with divisions on a national basis. the country needs reforms, better functioning institutions, greater respect for the law and the rule of law, and measures to protect political, civil and human rights. the political system provided for in the agreement should be respected. the dayton agreement must not be relativized or changed by any institution. the international institutions should respect the democratic institutions of bih and its sovereignty.
written. ‒ the dayton peace agreement signed 20 years ago ended the war in bosnia and herzegovina and brought long-awaited peace and stability. i supported the european parliament resolution marking the anniversary of the agreement by calling for the necessary reforms to be continued in order to create a functioning state that wants to be part of the european union. the resolution commemorates all the tragic victims of the war which left behind a great divide among the peoples of bosnia and herzegovina. i welcome the message of the european parliament calling for the return of croats, bosniaks and others to the republika srpska and their socioeconomic integration. our task is to help bosnia and herzegovina become a candidate for eu membership through reforms, regional cooperation, the process of european integration and overcoming division.
written. ‒ i support the adoption of the resolution on the 20th anniversary of the dayton agreement because i think it represents a good basis and incentive for the implementation of a series of reforms that the citizens of bosnia and herzegovina need. what this resolution rightly notes is the role of the european union in the overall process of transforming bosnia and herzegovina into a functioning state whose political, social, administrative, judicial and economic systems will perform their tasks well in order to raise the quality of life. i support this resolution also because it sees that the dayton agreement, despite the urgency and speed with which it was signed in the circumstances of the war 20 years ago, has not yet fulfilled or contained concrete answers to the institutional questions and the setbacks we are witnessing today. the resolution calls for its upgrading and i consider this crucial to improving the position of constituent peoples, especially croats in bosnia and herzegovina, who are experiencing a whole range of unpleasant everyday experiences due to a complex, inefficient and ineffective administrative and political system. i believe that the european union must take full responsibility for the transformation of bosnia and herzegovina into a functioning state in which all three constituent peoples will be able to exercise their rights equally.
written. ‒ with this resolution in the european parliament, we mark an important anniversary for bih, the eu and the international community. the signing of the dayton peace accords is a victory of diplomacy over war, but it was a very belated and costly victory. one hundred thousand killed, two million displaced people and enormous material destruction are the direct consequences of the war in bih and the war against bih. the failure of the international community to identify in time the causes, motives and protagonists of the war in bih decisively affected the nature and course of the conflict and the circumstances of the conclusion of the peace agreement. the consequences of what was done, and what was not done, are still being felt today. however, the real political challenges for bih at this moment are within the country itself, not coming from its immediate surroundings. unlike some 20 years ago, there is clear support coming from her neighbors today. the prospect of membership, as we in croatia know well, implies a serious work of change and adaptation to european standards and acquisitions. especially in a multinational, highly complex state community with a democratic structure, there is always a need to talk about upgrading the system. especially if it's about obvious flaws. i would not and cannot be an exception. relations in and towards bih should be distinguished; the former are still firmly defined by the institutions of the dayton agreement, while the latter are attempting to be modified by the so-called new or renewed eu approach.
written. ‒ general framework agreement for peace - the dayton peace agreement ended the largest conflict in europe since the second world war and laid the foundations for peace in bosnia and herzegovina. the european union has repeatedly demonstrated its full commitment to the european perspective of bih and its territorial integrity, sovereignty and unity. bih should continue to work with a commitment to the european perspective by implementing reforms aimed at strengthening the institutional framework and the equality of the three constituent peoples and all citizens.
written. ‒ december of this year marks the 20th anniversary of the signing of the framework agreement for peace in bosnia and herzegovina and the dayton peace agreement. the aim of the treaty was to stop the war and ensure the equality of the three constituent peoples. with the frequent amendments that have been made over the last 20 years, the original dayton agreement has been denied in a way and has ceased to exist, because with the amendments, the equality of the three constituent peoples has ceased to exist. the commission has also provided a number of recommendations to the council and the european parliament on the future of the eu. i fully support this resolution, because i think it's obvious that after a peace agreement like this, a real constitution should have followed in order for the state to function at full capacity. the country is economically very poor and has no opportunity to develop, there is a big problem of young people leaving, but also any form of corruption. the only solution is a new state restructuring, where the running of the state will be left entirely to its citizens, i.e. their legal and legitimate representatives.
written. ‒ this year, the european parliament is commemorating the 20th anniversary of the dayton peace agreement, signed in paris in december 1995. as a representative of croatia, the only eu member state directly involved in europe's bloodiest conflict since the second world war, this resolution is of particular importance to me. although the agreement ended the three-and-a-half-year war in bosnia, it was essentially a ceasefire measure that has sadly remained in effect to this day. the agreement preserved bosnia and herzegovina as a single state consisting of two parts, but in reality it has never been more divided at the national level than it is today. the dayton solution failed to turn bosnia and herzegovina into a functioning and modern european state - and as a result, the european council decided two months ago that bosnia and herzegovina would have to undergo many and comprehensive reforms before joining the european union. i myself participated in the drafting of the resolution on behalf of my group of european conservatives and reformists, in which i asked that the institutions of the european union, in the course of the accession negotiations with bosnia and herzegovina, demand genuine respect for the equality of the croatian people as one of the three constituent peoples in bih.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the european parliament's motion for a resolution on arms exports: implementation of common position 2008/944/cfsp, as this issue is of great importance at a time when the eu environment is extremely volatile politically and in terms of security. weapons in the hands of irresponsible individuals become a terrorist threat. the uncontrolled proliferation of weapons poses a serious risk to peace, security, human rights and sustainable development in the world. the commission should be able to take appropriate measures to ensure that the implementation of this regulation is consistent with the objectives of the union's external action. we need more transparency and control. arms export control is an integral part of the eu's foreign and security policy and must be consistent with the principles of promoting democracy and the rule of law and preserving peace, preventing conflict and strengthening international security. i support the entry into force of the arms trade treaty. the criteria set out in the common position should be interpreted and applied by member states in a uniform manner, without economic considerations being given precedence in the decision-making. the creation of an independent european arms control body and greater attention to dual-use technologies is needed.
written. ‒ i do not support the motion for a resolution of the ep on arms exports and the implementation of common position 2008/944/cfsp. i do not think that it highlights adequately the necessary steps that member states should take in the future to put this common position into practice and to ensure that european policy remains credible in highlighting the core values of protecting human life, preventing conflict, promoting internal stability and avoiding war as a way of solving internal problems between warring parties within or between states. i hope that member states will take seriously the problem of arms exports and trade and control official and unofficial sales channels, especially smugglers. on the other hand, i hope that the problem of numerous regional conflicts in europe's neighbourhood will encourage the competent authorities within the union to approach the institutionalisation of the problem of arms transfers between the member states of the european union, but also towards third countries, more studiously. accordingly, candidate countries must be clearly required not to be platforms for manipulation of arms sales channels and be required to strictly enforce the existing legislative framework.
written. ‒ despite the eu's efforts to promote the ratification of the att and the fact that the union has a single legally binding framework for arms export controls, the level of controls is not sufficient given the data on the amount of arms ending up in the wrong hands and the fact that some eu member states are among the world's leading arms exporters and that these exports are increasing due to decreasing revenues in europe. the commission also found that the exporting producers in the prc were not able to provide the export price to the union market in the form of a price undercutting calculation. i support the call for a more thorough assessment of the risks associated with exporting countries and for a stricter adherence to the common position in order to prevent the dangerous and disruptive possibility of the union indirectly arming terrorists and repressive regimes.
written. i support the motion for a resolution of the european parliament on arms exports: implementation of common position 2008/944/cfsp, tabled by mr bodil valero. in order to ensure that the export of such weapons is not subject to arbitrary restrictions, the parties shall cooperate with each other in the implementation of the arms embargo. given that the uncontrolled proliferation of weapons poses a major danger to eu countries and the international community, and poses a serious threat to the maintenance of peace and security, i believe that the regulation of international trade should indeed be a global objective. in this context, we should particularly take into account the eu's significantly changed environment, particularly in the south and east, and the fact that third countries such as albania, bosnia and herzegovina, macedonia, iceland, canada, montenegro and norway have also formally committed themselves to the criteria and principles set out in the common position. the only legitimate export is one that strictly adheres to the criteria of common position 2008/944/cfsp and takes place in the context of the eu's response to a request concerning the right of self-defence. we must not forget that the illegal, unlawful and unregulated transfer of arms threatens political stability and hinders democratic, social and economic development.
written. ‒ i supported this report because arms export control is an integral part of the eu's foreign and security policy and should be guided by the principles enshrined in article 21 teu, in particular the principles of promoting democracy and the rule of law and preserving peace, preventing conflict and strengthening international security. i am concerned about the possible circumvention of eu export controls by licensed production in third countries or through overseas branches of companies established in the eu. i believe that there is a need for stricter control of brokering services and related activities in the arms trade at eu level, which could escape scrutiny due to the fact that these practices differ from country to country. i therefore call for the establishment and implementation of a registration system which will oblige intermediaries to report in detail on their activities.
written. ‒ the global security environment around the eu has changed dramatically, and uncontrolled proliferation of weapons poses a serious risk to peace, security, human rights and sustainable development. the eu countries have therefore signed common position 2008/944/cfsp on the maintenance of regional peace, security and stability, which sets out eight criteria for conventional arms exports that eu member states must apply when taking licensing decisions. eu member states' arms exports in 2013 totalled eur 36,7 billion, of which eur 26,7 billion (or 36% of total arms exports) were exported to third countries, and few can argue that these trade flows are of direct security interest to the eu. i accept the council's position at first reading on arms exports as i believe that a consistent interpretation and successful implementation of the measures contained in common position 2008/944/cfsp would make a crucial contribution to the achievement of the eu's objectives of development policy coherence, peace, security and human rights. however, given that the report also covers some aspects with which i do not entirely agree, i voted 'abstention'.
written. ‒ this report by the green group's own-initiative rapporteur valero seeks to push for a strict implementation of the union's common foreign and security policy in the arms export segment by eu member states to third countries. the proposal constitutes another attempt at a serious breach of the principle of subsidiarity, since it requires the european commission to be given exclusive competence at the expense of individual member states of the union. i cannot support certain calls directed at member states, such as the call for support in the creation of an independent european arms control agency under the auspices of the high commissioner for foreign affairs and security policy of the union, which would be empowered to issue an opinion to those member states which intend to issue an export licence on their territory, because i am firmly convinced that security policy has always been, and should continue to be, in the hands of individual member states of the union.
written. ‒ recent decisions by the enlarged board of appeal of the european patent office have made it possible to patent plant traits, even when they are obtained by essentially biological breeding and cross-breeding techniques. the european patent office has decided that it is competent to grant patents on plant characteristics obtained by natural crossing. someone at that institution thought he was a divine being and had copyright on nature! such a decision could have far-reaching and disastrous consequences for european agriculture, and in particular for smallholders and farmers. that is why i supported the resolution calling on the commission to examine the legal basis of the decisions of the european patent office.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the european parliament resolution on patents and plant breeders' rights because i consider it necessary for the european commission to give an opinion on the interpretation of directive 98/44/ec in order to ensure legal clarity regarding the prohibition of patenting products obtained through biological processes and to clarify that patents allow the cultivation of biological material. in this context, it is necessary to encourage innovation and the development of new species in order to ensure food security, mitigate the effects of climate change and prevent monopolies within the crop sector. i also believe that we need to be particularly careful when it comes to biotechnology and genetic engineering, and i therefore support this resolution.
written. ‒ i supported the european parliament resolution calling on the commission to clarify directive 98/44/ec to ensure legal clarity on the prohibition of patenting products obtained from biological processes and defining the use of materials obtained from biological processes for plant breeding. properly defined plant regulations are essential for the development of new varieties in order to ensure global food security, combat climate change and prevent monopolies in the breeding sector. at the same time, it protects intellectual property and encourages innovation.
written. ‒ without going into the procedures and reasons followed by the enlarged board of appeal of the european patent office in reaching its decision in the 'tomatoes and broccoli' case, it is clear that european legislation refers to the fact that the patenting of animal and plant varieties and of the biological processes necessary for the production of plants and animals may not be carried out. the european parliament has already warned that legislation in this regard must be clear, as any ambiguity not only undermines the innovative potential of the plant breeding sector to develop new varieties, but also poses a threat to world food production and food security, as well as weakening the eu's position in international trade relations. i also believe that it is necessary to ensure the absolutely unrestricted use of biological material, not only for companies in the plant breeding sector, but also for farmers who use existing biological material and available techniques to produce new innovative and resistant varieties, because they have been doing so unhindered for thousands of years. i would like to remind you that european law is based on principles and that european union rules must be interpreted in their entirety, bearing in mind their true purpose and objective, since it is not always possible to foresee all the circumstances surrounding them. for all these reasons, i supported this resolution of the european parliament.
written. ‒ plant breeding is an innovative process that farmers and farming communities have been doing since the beginning of agriculture, and non-proprietary varieties and breeding methods are important for genetic diversity. access to plant-based biological material is needed to stimulate innovation and the development of new varieties to ensure global food security, tackle climate change and prevent monopolies. products obtained by processes which are essentially biological, such as plants, seeds, originating properties and genes, should therefore be excluded from patentability. the prohibition of the patentability of products obtained by processes which are biological, such as crossing, is necessary for the maintenance of innovation, food safety as well as for small farmers. i therefore join the calls for the commission and the patent office to explain their decision to parliament as soon as possible.
written. ‒ i support this proposal because it encourages innovation and economic growth. i believe it is important to enable products to obtain a european patent in order to be as competitive as possible on the market and to make the european union as visible and as visible as possible on the global market. this certification would make it easier for all eu citizens to do business and to protect their patent rights, which is one of the main objectives of investment protection. this proposal shows that the european union cares about and invests in science and innovation and that efforts in these fields should be continued.
written. ‒ access to biological plant material that captures plant properties is a key prerequisite for giving a strong impetus to growth and innovation, and for developing new varieties. the development of new varieties would ensure global food security, tackle climate change, prevent a monopoly in the breeding sector and create more opportunities for small and medium-sized enterprises. products obtained by processes that are essentially biological, such as plants, seeds, original properties and genes, should not be patentable. therefore, the holder of a plant variety right cannot prohibit others from using the protected plants for further cultivation, which is a fundamental principle of the international system of plant variety rights based on the international convention for the protection of new varieties of plants (upov convention) and the eu system based on council regulation (ec) no 2100/94. i fully support the first reading of that resolution, as i believe that it is necessary to define clear rights for plant breeders and criteria for patenting. intellectual property rights are of paramount importance for maintaining economic incentives for the development of new plant products and guaranteeing competitiveness.
written. ‒ i strongly condemn the killings and human rights violations that are taking place in burundi. i call for an end to violence and an end to human rights violations. it is of the utmost importance to prevent the situation from deteriorating further, and i call for a political dialogue between the government and the opposition. we must prevent further escalation of the conflict that could spread to neighboring countries.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the european parliament resolution on the situation in burundi, given that the country is currently in an even worse political, economic and humanitarian crisis than in previous european parliament resolutions. unfortunately, in recent weeks, the situation has deteriorated rapidly, and the security forces have been violating human rights without fear of sanctions. it supports the dialogue between the government and the opposition and calls for the consideration of additional sanctions against those who contribute to the continuation and escalation of violence and are an obstacle to a peaceful solution. this resolution calls for the suspension or redirection of eu and member state development assistance respectively.
written. ‒ i support the motion for a resolution condemning the current situation in burundi with regard to the attempts of the president of the country to win a third term as head of state. the resolution expresses strong criticism of the burundian political leadership and calls for a solution to the political crisis that has been ongoing in the country since july 2015. the great lakes region is notorious for its instability resulting from the reduced power and ability of states to use their security and military capabilities to deter local warlords from attempting to establish control over local or regional areas. the current situation in burundi threatens to destabilise the region and could usher in a new era of continuing conflict. they are concerned about the numerous irregularities in the conduct of elections, freedom of the media, the functioning of the opposition, respect for human rights and freedoms, and violations of international conventions and treaties and the burundian constitution. the regime of the current president nkurunziza is impeding the development of burundian society and it is imperative to encourage democratic change in the country. as burundi is one of the poorest countries in the world, the level of humanitarian action and donations to the burundian population needs to be increased, but with appropriate monitoring mechanisms and guarantees that the aid offered is actually delivered to those in need. this resolution is clear in its wording and i hope it will indeed result in change.
written. ‒ i strongly support the opening of article 96 of the cotonou agreement and the adoption of concrete measures to stop the current and prevent further violence and human rights violations in burundi, given the worsening political, humanitarian and security situation in the country, the wave of refugees and the state repression of human rights organisations and the opposition. unless the un and the union act more forcefully and with more concrete actions in terms of sanctions and encouraging consultations and agreements between the authorities, the opposition and civil society, the violence will undoubtedly continue, if not worsen.
written. i support the motion for a resolution on the situation in burundi tabled by mr tannock, mr demesmaeker, mr raffaele fitto and mr notis marias. given the sharp deterioration of the situation in burundi over the past few weeks and the widespread violations of human rights, and given the crucial role of respect for human rights, democratic principles and the rule of law in the eu-burundi relations governed by the cotonou agreement, the eu has a duty to defend human rights and to call for the restoration of democratic order and the rule of law. the violation of fundamental human rights, the disruption of civil institutions, the violation of media freedom have led to the displacement of more than 200 000 people. as un security council resolution 2248 strongly encourages the government of burundi to respect and protect human rights and freedoms and to agree to participate in the mediation led by the east african community, the african union, with the aim of establishing a dialogue within burundi, i consider this to be the only effective solution to the current crisis.
written. ‒ in recent weeks, the situation in burundi has deteriorated sharply, and the security forces in that country continue to violate human rights without fear of punishment. on 13 november 2015, the un special envoy for burundi stated that the situation in burundi is deteriorating and that serious human rights violations are taking place on a daily basis, including extrajudicial executions, arbitrary arrests and detentions, torture, attacks on the independence of the media, and harassment and killings of human rights defenders, as well as unjustified restrictions on the rights to peaceful assembly and expression, and that more than 200 000 people have been displaced by the violence. i am deeply concerned about the increasing human rights violations and violence in burundi, the growing divisions in society and the lack of dialogue among burundian stakeholders, and the risk of a regional crisis, and i call on all parties in burundi to stop the spiral of violence.
written. ‒ burundi has signed the peace and reconciliation agreement which stipulates that the president can only serve two terms. president pierre nkurunziza announced on 26 april 2015 that he would run for a third term in office after serving two terms. on the basis of the results of 26 august 2015, he was declared the winner, which led the country to the biggest political crisis since the end of the civil war. as the country's unrest grew, police used excessive force to suppress peaceful protests, resulting in 129 deaths. on 28 may of the same year, the eu suspended the election observation mission because the minimum conditions for holding democratic elections were not met. the international community does not consider the election valid. the political impasse in the country and the deteriorating security and economic situation have severe consequences for the population and threaten the stability of the entire region. i support the resolution on the situation in burundi because i believe that human rights must be protected, that politically motivated violence, summary and extrajudicial executions, arbitrary arrests and detentions must be punished. burundi was one of the first countries in the region, along with rwanda and congo, to hold elections and was therefore to serve as an example of respect for the international and constitutional order necessary for the sustainability of democratization, peace and development in the region.
written. ‒ this resolution builds on the statement by the high commissioner of 25 november this year. the situation in burundi has deteriorated significantly in recent weeks - security forces are increasingly brutally violating the basic human rights of burundian citizens with impunity. at least 240 people have been killed and 210,000 people have fled the country since president nkurunziza made the controversial decision to extend his presidential term. i also support the call in this resolution for a solution to the crisis to be agreed within burundi and to be based on consensus. in line with this, all political parties in burundi are called upon to end the violence and to start dialogue.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the european parliament resolution on the protection of the virunga national park in the democratic republic of congo, because i believe it is essential to preserve and ensure the sustainability of africa's oldest national park, which is a unesco world heritage site. in this regard, and in order to preserve natural resources and biodiversity, i consider it necessary to prohibit all illegal activities, such as those of armed groups that illegally exploit natural resources, and to prevent human rights violations that occur in the area concerned. in this context, the diplomatic response of the european union and the international community is important to fully preserve the world's natural wealth and ensure respect for fundamental rights.
written. ‒ virunga national park is africa's oldest national park, renowned for its unique habitats and rich biodiversity, especially the endangered mountain gorillas. it is essential to prevent irreversible damage to virunga national park, which has been on the unesco world heritage list since 1979 and on the list of world heritage in danger since 1994. the damage to virunga np may result from oil exploration and exploitation and other illegal activities. fishing in lake edward provides about $30 million a year for the local community living nearby, and according to independent research by the wwf, more than 50,000 families use the lake as a source of fresh water. so i supported a resolution by representative linda mcavan calling for the protection of virunga national park.
written. ‒ i support the resolution on the protection of virunga national park in the democratic republic of congo, as according to all relevant indicators this national park is threatened by the destruction of the flora and fauna that make it special, on the basis of which it is inscribed on the unesco world heritage list and the list of world heritage in danger. i believe that the necessary steps must be taken, as this resolution clearly identifies, to secure the financial and organizational resources to ensure the smooth operation of the national park, to protect its integrity, to prevent the irresponsible and unacceptable exploitation of the natural and environmental resources, and to protect it from armed groups that threaten the survival of the park. the current activities within the protected area that pose a threat must be limited by the action of the government of the democratic republic of the congo in cooperation and with the assistance of the european union and other relevant actors at the united nations. as the national park represents an important segment of the local economy, it is necessary to do everything to ensure that the local population remains actively involved in the protection and enjoyment of the benefits of the park, but also to prevent possible environmental devastation due to the intention of oil exploitation, whose deposits cover 85% of the protected area. the protection of habitats and their associated wildlife must remain an absolute priority.
written. ‒ the european union must do more to prevent environmental devastation, violence and exploitation in the virunga national park in the congo, especially as companies operating in the jurisdiction of eu member states are involved in the illegal exploitation of natural resources, in violation of international and european law. the commission has also received information from the united nations environment programme (unep) on the use of the term 'central african republic' in the context of the un convention on the rights of the child (crc). i fully support the call for diplomatic action by eu member states to stop the exploitation by the dr congo government and the request for financial support from the commission to ensure diversification and protection of the surrounding area and to support the development of sustainable energy and economic alternatives in the congo.
written. i support the motion for a resolution on the protection of virunga national park in the democratic republic of congo tabled by ms linda mcavan. virunga national park was designated a unesco world heritage site in 1979 and a world heritage site in danger in 1994. as such, it should be especially preserved and protected. although the dr congo law prohibits activities harmful to the environment in protected areas, the dr congo government has granted oil concessions covering 85% of the park area to soco international plc, which has so far been the only company to explore the park. i believe that the race for oil would result in severe destabilization of society and the environment. according to a 2013 wwf report, virunga national park currently has an annual economic value of usd 48,9 million and in a stable situation, the park could contribute to economic growth and tourism and reach a value of usd 1 billion annually and create 45 000 much-needed jobs. sadly, despite its status as a protected wilderness park, it has been threatened for decades by armed groups engaged in poaching, deforestation, and other unsustainable and illegal forms of resource exploitation. virunga is now on the list of endangered world heritage sites.
written. - virunga national park has been declared a world heritage site by the united nations. it is important to preserve the wilderness in virunga national park because of the current exploitation and exploration for oil resources and other activities. it should also be noted that the member states of the european union, having a duty under international and european human rights law, must ensure that companies operating within their jurisdiction do not cause or contribute to human rights violations and environmental damage.
written. ‒ virunga national park is the oldest national park in africa. virunga national park was designated a world heritage site by unesco in 1979 and a world heritage site in danger in 1994. the commission notes that the npv of the project is eur [0-5] million. the sustainable management of virunga's land, water, flora and fauna will bring direct and indirect economic benefits to communities that rely heavily on the park's natural resources. the commission has also received comments from the norwegian authorities, which have not provided any evidence that the np virunga has been able to comply with the requirements of the restructuring communication. i support this resolution because i believe that virunga national park has inestimable value. it is known for its unique habitats and great biodiversity, making it the most biologically diverse park in africa. the conservation of biodiversity is one of the tasks that humanity should tackle together and which is an integral part of the development process.
written. ‒ virunga national park, located in the democratic republic of the congo, is the oldest national park in africa. since 1978, it has been a unesco world heritage site, and it is home to many endangered species, some of which are among the last remaining on the planet. sadly, the same park has also become one of the most dangerous places in the world for wildlife conservation. the agreement with the authorities of the democratic republic of congo includes illegal oil exploration and extraction in the park, as well as a number of other illicit activities, such as poaching and ivory trade. at the same time, the park is experiencing violence linked to and instigated by armed guerrillas, and at the same time, serious violations of fundamental human rights. i support the resolution calling on the european external action service to take more decisive steps to convince the authorities in the democratic republic of congo to investigate the actions leading to violations of fundamental human rights on their territory and to take steps to stop cooperation with oil companies exploiting oil in the park, which could otherwise have cardinal negative consequences.
