madam president, please. i would like to start with a terrible quote: "we do not want to see a significant minority with different cultural characteristics and backgrounds among us, we want to keep hungary as hungary". this terrible sentence was not uttered by a far-right politician, but by the prime minister of hungary, viktor orbán, following yesterday's republican march in paris. these are shameful, exclusionary, racist words. the memory of the victims of terrorism is insulted, as are the french and europe, when the prime minister speaks of immigrants as the cause of all evil. orbán has once again proven that he has no place among european leaders. i myself took part in the paris march and saw that this march was not about exclusion but about solidarity, about strengthening the european spirit. therefore, we must make it clear here in the european parliament: viktor orbán, the hungarian prime minister, did not speak on behalf of the hungarians, we hungarians are not like that! liberty, equality, fraternity, that is what we stand for!
the construction of the south stream gas pipeline would provide an alternative to ukraine for several european countries, thus increasing security of supply. however, the union's liberal, bureaucratic competition rules prevent this. i add that for nord stream - which supplies germany alone - this is not a problem. the chief of staff of the united states embassy in budapest has made a absolute statement that the construction of the south stream damages hungary's energy independence. the reason is clear. they want ukraine to remain the only transit country for russian gas, with a government that serves their interests. the european union must decide whose interests it serves. will it be an ally of the united states in a global power game, or will it serve the interests of the member states, the people of europe?
in 2011, this house adopted the european roma strategy. since then, national strategies have been born, reports have been born, a blank sheet of paper has been born, but the situation has not changed in essence. today, within the european community, the roma community faces severe discrimination in almost all aspects of daily life - housing, education, healthcare. he must plan his life to face constant discrimination. however, i do not have the impression that the european parliament or the european commission would deal with this situation in a way that would be proportionate to its gravity. i do not know to this day which commissioner in the european commission is responsible for the roma issue. although we are talking about the same european citizens as you, madam president, and myself. i therefore urge the parliament and the european commission to deal with the situation of roma in europe much more effectively than they have done so far.
in writing. giving a new impetus to the european union's external policy was one of the three main priorities of the italian presidency. i myself agree with this objective, and the need for it has been demonstrated by developments in the middle east and ukraine. these events - although they have taken place outside our borders - have a direct impact on neighbouring member states and thus on the european union as a whole. the italian presidency has rightly recognised this objective, but the latvian presidency still needs to make significant progress in this area. this will require the support of the member states as well as the european parliament. if the union cannot show a unified and effective response to the most important foreign policy developments, the union as a whole will be weakened. for my part, i therefore support mrs mogherini's aim of making europe's global role known through joint action. i thank the italian presidency for the measures taken in this area and i ask the latvian presidency to speed up this process through its instruments.
the legislation in question would allow member states to restrict or prohibit the cultivation of genetically modified plants. it is a restriction, a restriction on national self-determination. both the rapporteur and the commissioner have said that this gives the member states the right to free choice. the people of europe must not be misled in this parliament. why free choice? the government of a member state believes that it does not want to allow the cultivation of a genetically modified product for scientific, sociological and social reasons, and a process is set in motion at the end of which the union, the commission, can say, no, i do not accept the arguments! it means that you're forcing him to accept the cultivation of this plant. why is that a right of free choice? it is, moreover, included among the grounds for the necessity of a compelling reason. so, despite the scientific evidence, there is a new law that is not binding. and by the way, the proposal that we have today, the december proposal, is a compromise, not a compromise. and let us not be under any illusions, one of the fundamental goals of the free trade agreement, ttip, is to see the us exert pressure, to see the spread of genetically modified products in europe. so please, in the further discussion, do not say that it gives member states free choice and free choice, because it does not.
it's a two-card draw. - madam president, i have to ask you to leave. my fellow members of parliament! although i would like to sing victory songs myself about a compromise reached, this time around, while i respect those who have contributed to the compromise, i would be a little more careful. my question is this: if we open up the so-called free-action process so widely, how will this lead to a common european position in the ttip negotiations?
in writing. it is in the interest of hungarian farmers that hungarian agriculture is guaranteed gmo-free. this objective is also enshrined in the hungarian constitution. the current gmo authorisation system is also very vulnerable to the preservation of gmo-free status. it's very difficult to install and maintain a protective dryer. on the one hand, very expensive scientific studies are needed to establish the protective formula, which the breeders do not add from their patented seeds. on the other hand, the decision to maintain the prohibitions is taken by the other member states on a proposal from the commission, on the basis of the opinion of the european food safety authority, which has always taken a positive stance on the gmo issue. the commission has always proposed the abolition of member states' safeguard quotas, against which it is almost impossible to obtain a qualified majority. the proposal for a new gmo licensing scheme, which will be voted on today, offers a much more secure opportunity than the current system to preserve the gmo-free status of hungarian agriculture. it would be easier to base a ban not only on environmental and health grounds but also on other grounds, including a number of agricultural grounds. this would make it much less likely to attack hungary for the ban in an international or national judicial forum than in the current situation. so it's very important to me that we have an effective tool in our hands as soon as possible that makes the ban simpler and more defensible than the current system. i therefore support the adoption of the proposal containing the agreement of the council and parliament.
in writing. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your support. the new legislation on restricting the cultivation of gmos is a major step in the fight against gmos in europe. the result of a right and responsible decision. it was a success for all of us, one of the keys to which was the excellent austrian-hungarian-croatian cooperation. the result achieved is outstanding for hungary, as it allows our agriculture to be guaranteed at european level that it is free of gmos, as enshrined in the basic law. i would like to say that many of us would have liked to see more, stricter regulations. but we must admit that in the circumstances a realistic compromise has been reached. in fact, despite the continuing resistance of member states supporting the cultivation of gmos, the main objective of ensuring freedom of choice for member states was finally achieved. however, there is still a lot of work to be done in research and food safety, and the long-term health effects of gmos still need to be addressed. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament and the council should be given the opportunity to discuss the matter with the council. as the regulation of gmos shows, environmental protection is a european issue that does not stop at national borders. the safe cultivation of gmos in europe should be based on a dialogue between member states that choose gmos and those that reject them, based on mutual respect. the necessary measures should be taken to avoid cross-border pollution and responsibility for the damage caused should be assumed.
in writing. the new gmo regulation, which the european parliament is discussing at second reading following the agreement with the council of 4 december, gives member states more flexibility than the council's proposal to ban the cultivation of gmos, but represents a significant step back from the position adopted by parliament at first reading. the new directive can be counted as a partial success at most, but more likely as a failure. a number of important issues, such as damage from cross-border pollution and liability for damage caused by the cultivation of gm crops, remained open. the council has not been able to achieve a lasting and satisfactory solution to the latter question, namely the effective application of the 'polluter pays' principle, since it has unfortunately not supported the stricter position of parliament to require mandatory measures to prevent and control pollution. this is linked to the issue of financial liability for damages, mainly attributable to biotechnology companies, which is also only vaguely referred to in the final text. in practice, this means that the innocent party, i.e. the member state affected, its authority, farmers and taxpayers, can continue to bear the burden of pollution. the council should have been more decisive in defending the legitimate interests of the gmo-free member states. in addition, reform of the authorisation and risk assessment procedure at union level remains essential. we cannot allow the possibility of a ban by a member state to lead to a more superficial authorisation of gmos in the eu.
in writing. 30% of the world's oceans are overfished, and the survival of marine fish stocks is at risk. i support the proposal for a sustainable fisheries agreement between the european union and são tomé and príncipe, which seeks to place the west african tuna fisheries within a more sustainable framework than the one currently in place. the justified measures taken to maintain marine fish stocks have led to a continuous and significant decline in the amount of marine fish caught. the cfp should therefore pay much more attention to sustainable fisheries, i.e. aquaculture, and in particular freshwater fisheries. a significant part of the hungarian wetlands is located in natura 2000 areas. these fish farms do not pose any threat to the natural values of these areas, unlike marine aquaculture areas. in fact, in many cases it is our closed systems of wetlands that have created and preserved unique associations of aquatic habitats. therefore, freshwater aquaculture should be freed from unnecessarily stringent and unnecessary sustainability requirements. these are justified only for marine fisheries and aquaculture. in future, efforts should be made to clearly differentiate between the concept and regulation of marine and freshwater aquaculture.
in writing. i voted in favour of the proposal on the possibility for member states to restrict or prohibit the cultivation of gmos. i believe that there is still no complete consensus on gmos among member states or experts. this is also shown by the fact that this debate has been going on in the european parliament for five years now. progress has been made in this process, and it is not the end of the debate between those who oppose and those who support the cultivation of gmos. i believe that member states should be given the right to restrict the cultivation of gmos, and that requires a uniform directive. i think it is right that the member states should have more room for manoeuvre on gmos and should be able to set the level of restriction they wish in a transparent manner. in addition, restrictions will also apply in the defined border zones of neighbouring countries. uniform regulation can also address concerns in member states about legal attacks on biotech companies. of course, the member states have a great deal of responsibility for implementation, and deadlines must be met and respected. in this respect, the eu institutions are also bound by obligations, such as those in trade agreements. they should be negotiated in a coherent way, as is the case with the current ttip. the right of member states to prohibit the cultivation/marketing of gmos for health reasons, in order to conserve biodiversity and ecosystems should be maintained after the conclusion of trade agreements.
it's a two-card draw. i'd like to ask congresswoman dodds what she thinks is a really good solution to aggressive tax planning? i only ask because, for example, in my country, hungary, the hungarian government just the other day imposed a tax of half a euro per kilogram on solar panels, which are considered to be environmental investments.
the following point statements by the council and the commission recent incidents of trafficking in human beings in the mediterranean (2015/2507 ((rsp))
i'm not going to let you do this. believe me, i've been on the other side of this a long time, and i know how hard it is to get a say in the "catch the eye" process, and how hard this process is. i would like to say that the collection of requests for comments is done by having the members sit in from the beginning of the debate, indicating their request for comments. in fact, they sit through the debate, wait their turn, and then get their chance. i should also like to tell the honourable member that mr corrao, from her group, applied for catch the eye earlier. this is a dispute between you and me, and we have a time limit. the next speaker is mrs tomašić. i'm not going to let you do this. is this a point of order or a point of order?
i assure you i have no intention of preventing your speech. in fact, i appreciate that you sat through the debate - one of the members who sat through it. i didn't collect the comments on the "catch the eye" procedure, i couldn't have done it, that's why the colleagues are there. and the judges have ruled that your fellow mp raised his hand before you did during the proceedings. i'm asking you to handle this between yourselves. i have no intention of signing or overriding the house rules. the next speaker is mr tomašić from the ecr. there you go.
it's a two-card draw. thank you very much for the opportunity to speak. i'm also trying to help mrs. hohlmeier a little by not being able to finish the list. but he was actually talking about crime, and corruption is part of our topic today. question: what do you think about the case where the organized form of corruption is the government of the member state itself?
on behalf of the verts/ale group the lack of effective anti-corruption action which led to our december question to the commission undermines the credibility of democracy and the union. what is needed: a comprehensive, single european anti-corruption strategy, strong regulation to implement it and coordination of member states' policies. a european institutional framework to implement this and cooperation between member states. the establishment of the european public prosecutor's office, which can check all this. failure to act urgently will further weaken the already deeply fragmented european solidarity, because if europe spends the resources of cohesion policy, for example, to line the pockets of oligarchs in some member states, both those who pay the money will turn away and question the meaning of cohesion policy, and those who are focused on cohesion policy but do not enjoy its positive effects will lose their faith and trust in europe. it is not just a question of policy, but of restoring confidence and faith in europe.
in writing. the scandals of the past months have proven that the current hungarian government is not only unfit to fight corruption, but also its supporter, an active participant. the us ban scandal, the fed real estate scandal, the lack of transparency in eu tenders all serve the same purpose: to give pro-government politicians, their companies and their families access to vast sums of money. the hungarian government has a paper on this today: according to an international organization, viktor orbán is the second most corrupt politician after vladimir putin. the hungarian government is no longer a guarantee that public money, eu funds, are being spent fairly, for the benefit of the hungarian people. that is why i have turned to the eu anti-fraud office on many occasions, and why i urge the establishment of a european public prosecutor's office as soon as possible to put a stop to pervasive government corruption and abuse. i therefore ask olaf and the commission to thoroughly investigate cases of suspected corruption in the interests of the hungarian people.
madam prime minister! you were deeply shocked by the statement that the european union is not united enough and is not united enough in its response to russia. and he called one of the most important tasks of the six months ahead to strengthen this unity, that is, the toughness of the action against russia. madam prime minister, if you'll excuse the blunt language, how do you come to this? don't you think that kind of attitude increases tension, increases the cold war mood, makes the threat of real war seem imminent? when people in increasingly desperate circumstances ask what the european union is good for, despite all the difficulties and pain, they always say it is for the preservation of peace. do you really want to preserve peace? i ask you to calm us down and to answer my question: what are you going to do to ensure that your country, latvia, my country, hungary and all of europe can continue to live in peace? i'm waiting for your answer, madam prime minister.
madam prime minister! i welcome you to the european parliament with great respect and i was very pleased to hear your thoughts in your speech about how much has happened in the life of your country since our joint accession in 2004. how they joined the euro area and what challenges they now face in their first presidency. first of all, we owe you a debt of gratitude and we thank you for your behavior, for your quick response to the terrorist attacks in paris. and the series of measures that we have managed to launch with the eu interior ministers to increase the security of all of us and to ensure good cooperation between the judicial authorities. i've read your program and i can see how complex it is. as you said, they've made a huge commitment and that's very commendable. i'd like to see that commitment translate into fulfillment. and i want to highlight one of those things: the digital market. this rapid adaptation -- which you mentioned -- is very important in the digital market. the digital market is a huge reserve for the european union. one study found that a single market, a closer single market, a better functioning single market, could add €520 billion to the gdp of the 28 countries. that's a huge reserve right now. it's a sin not to take advantage of this opportunity. i think that the focus of the presidency's program this semester, among many other things, of course, is to unlock this potential. this is something that every country needs at this time. i urge the prime minister to take the necessary steps and make suggestions. the intervener shall consent to the answer to a question referred for a preliminary ruling (article 162 (8) of the rules of procedure). )
it's a two-card draw. - my dear fellow members of parliament. he expressed his appreciation for the significant achievements of latvia, which had joined the european union at the same time as hungary, our common country. among other things, it joined the eurozone, it was very successful economically, and so on. i'm sorry to ask, but why do you admit that hungary is in such a different situation? the bad language suggests that maybe the politicians in the country have stolen less than we have in the last few years since the so-called regime change. they were actually underserved by their own state... (the president cut the speaker off)
that's a two-card answer. thank you for your question. the representative knows there are no uniform recipes. when we joined in 2004, we had a different vision of the future. hungary also had a target date for joining the eurozone. in our country, in 2002, there was a break in the life of our country, after which our economy began to plummet. we were hit much sooner by a crisis that started from within. the actions of the socialist governments have almost bankrupted us. under the circumstances, we should be happy where we are and look forward to... (the president withdrew the floor from the member. )
it's a two-card draw. i would like to ask the vice-president, when she spoke about the digital market, whether she could also be friends with a so-called digital union in relation to the european digital single market? so, if the digital market is the exception, would the same rules apply to the digital market in all countries?
that's a two-card answer. we are lagging behind the digital market, for example, in the united states of europe. i think that we must exercise the necessary restraint and gradualness in this area. it is obvious that such a huge step could be taken, as you say, and i would be satisfied if, in this term or in the next presidency or looking ahead to the next seven years, we could put the digital single market at the centre of policy and achieve as much as possible of what we set out to do in our programme.
in writing. i am in the lucky position that as a representative of hungary i do not have to explain to a representative of a baltic state the problems of energy dependence, the importance of alternative procurement options and the construction of infrastructure. although energy security is not directly included among the three official objectives of the latvian presidency, the establishment of competitive energy sources and a single integrated energy market is one of the keys to creating a competitive european union. i am concerned about the difficulty and the slowness of achieving our energy objectives: the target date for the single energy market was 2014 it is now clear that this has not been fully achieved. the early implementation of the third energy package is essential for the full integration of markets. the other area that's been difficult to develop is speaking with one voice to external partners. the european union is facing a challenge in dealing with the situation in ukraine, and it is therefore essential to establish appropriate conciliation protocols and practices. i believe that both competitiveness and security of supply considerations call for swift action. that is why i look forward to the discussion of the energy union in the coming months.
in writing. first of all, i would like to thank the presidency for taking the perspective of people with disabilities into account in disability issues and particularly in the management of disasters and natural disasters and here i would just like to refer to the high and professional level presidency event held at the beginning of the year, where the elements of drr (disaster risk reduction) were discussed from the perspective of disability. this topic is important not only because the european parliament has been active in the field of 112 but also because the un convention on the rights of persons with disabilities (crpd) has a strong focus on this issue. in europe, heat and flooding are causing disastrous conditions, compared to asia (earthquakes and tsunamis), but our asian partners are ahead in strategic planning and thinking and it is worth learning from them. i therefore welcome the fact that you are planning a high-level meeting on disability at the end of the current presidency and hope that progress will be made on this issue.
in writing. there is no doubt that the european union has reached a turning point. not only are the wounds of the economic crisis hard to heal, but new and previously suppressed problems are increasingly pressing on our community. it is clear that the latvian presidency must make it a priority to substantially reduce youth unemployment and to address the challenges posed by geopolitical changes, but the tragedies of the past few days have inevitably put the urgent debate on migration on the agenda. as a hungarian social democrat, i am ashamed that prime minister viktor orbán said during the sunday prayer procession demonstrating the unity of europe that "hungarians do not want to see minorities with different cultural characteristics and backgrounds among them". orbán said the wrong thing at the wrong time. viktor orbán does not understand europe, perhaps he never did. i'm ashamed of it. migration is a real and serious challenge in our community. but by inciting hatred, by populist and extreme simplification of the issue, we only dig deeper and divide, we break our common europe. the real problem is not immigration, but poverty and social crisis, which affect muslims and christians in france, hungarian gypsies and swabians, and hungarians in romania in the same way. we must find solutions that are united, that are firm and sincere, but wise and reassuring. as soon as possible. good work for the latvian presidency, good work for all of us!
the next item is the statement by the vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy main aspects and fundamental choices of the common foreign and security policy and the common security and defence policy (article 36 teu) (2014/2813 ((rsp))
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – madam president, i would like to thank the high representative for her succinct, but nevertheless comprehensive, overview of both our foreign policy and some of the current crises. we would also like, as greens, to extend from here as well our sincere and heartfelt condolences to all the victims of the charlie hebdo attack and their families, and of course our sympathies go to the french people and all victims of terrorism around the world. as our socialist friend also mentioned, we should also try to make sure that the response to that heinous attack should not jeopardise but strengthen the core values that the european union is based on – human rights, human security and an open society. on the other hand, i will try to be less sanguine than some of my friends about what this debate is all about, namely the foreign policy of the european union. we have been, for more than a year now, surrounded by a set of crises. some of them are military, some of them are outright war, and some of them are on the brink of becoming cold wars. one of the major lessons from these crises so far, in my estimation and in our group’s estimation, is that none of the member states is capable of dealing with crises on its own or even in some sort of combination. these crises, put together, are bigger than any combination of former or present great powers within the european union. we need a comprehensive, coordinated strategy. you do not need to be an ideologically-committed federalist to see that there is no other way out of these crisis situations than through more coordination, especially on foreign and security policy. high representative, i welcome the fact that you have already mentioned that for the preparation of the june european council we could review the european security strategy. of course, if there is a state which has a security strategy that has been in place for ten years, that might mean two things: firstly, that is highly successful and there is no need to change it, and secondly, that it is rather slow in reviewing it. i am afraid that we are more in the second position than in the first, so, although i fully understand that this is basically the council’s responsibility, i would like to ask you what we, the european parliament, could do to help you in that exercise. as a last point, i would like to draw your attention to the fact that we have a responsibility for the coherence of all our external policies, not just our foreign and security policy. let us make sure of that as well.
thank you, too. first of all, i'd like to tell mr. paet that we saw him raise a blue card. but then mrs fotyga had just finished her speech and mrs de sarnez had started. so we couldn't take the blue card into account, but at the same time, of course, i saw that mr. carver...
i'm not going to let you do this. thank you so much for speaking for someone else. my colleagues have noticed that you're playing cards. can you tell me who you're using to get a blue card for mme. de sarnez? maybe if someone raised their hand, it would help. but if you want to be a spokesman for everyone, i'm happy to accept that. but without a blue card, i can't give you a yellow card. congressman, i have closed this debate.
i'd like a moment with the congressman. the second thing that happens is that we don't get up when we're sitting. thank you so much for doing me the honor of this. and i think the same is true for the question card -- stand up when you answer. one, we see who's responding, and two, we honor the house. there you go, mr schaffhauser.
the key to a successful eu engagement in ukraine is consistency and unity, and on this point i would like to thank mrs mogherini. that is why, in the context of the dialogue with the kiev leadership on the european perspectives of the country, on the development of the rule of law in accordance with european standards... (the member withdrew from the debate because of a technical problem.) so we have to speak out against the danger of rising nationalism. representatives of the ukrainian government have stated in recent weeks that they are planning a series of police proceedings and punishments against some of their citizens in order to enforce the law on dual citizenship as strictly as possible. in addition to the russian minority, members of a number of other national minorities, including many eu citizens, who are in need of increased political protection, are also threatened or harassed. although formally legal, this harsh government action is nothing more than a concession to the growing nationalist pressure. the law in the current situation of ukraine's internal politics can only serve to increase tension, escalation. i therefore ask that these aspects, along with the ways of strengthening political and economic support, be taken into account in the current discussions between the european union and the high representative and our friends in kiev.
i would like to ask mrs mogherini, and the parliament, for a position on two questions. neither is a political issue, but both are human rights issues. the first. in a resolution, the russian parliament called on the european parliament and other parliaments around the world to cooperate in an independent international fact-finding inquiry into a series of crimes against the civilian population in south-eastern ukraine. is there any obstacle to that? the second: in ukraine, along with other national communities, nearly 200,000 hungarians live as an indigenous national community. there are a number of un, council of europe and eu standards on the human rights of indigenous national communities. i have them in my hand, and i'm going to give them to you. can you convince your ukrainian friends that they, as an eu partner country, must adhere to these standards?
madam president, ladies and gentlemen of the house. ukraine is in a serious internal political crisis, in a difficult economic situation and in a prolonged military conflict between russia and ukraine, which has caused thousands of casualties, in order to achieve european orientation. the war in eastern ukraine is costing the country €5 million a day, which is a huge burden on the ukrainian economy, rampant inflation, impoverishment of the civilian population. however, the humanitarian catastrophe and insecurity are not limited to crimea and war zones. the recovery from the domestic crisis will be achieved with the help of a new-minded ukrainian government and the european union. since there is no single and painless solution to the problems, radical changes are needed: the elimination of corruption and double standards, the capitalisation of the economy, decentralisation and full respect for human and civil rights for both the majority and the minority. i think it is essential that ukraine becomes a european democratic state, and for this the eu should provide all the financial, expert and moral support it can, but also supervise it... (the president cut the speaker off)
madam president, i have to ask you to leave. a quarter of a century after the collapse of the russian-soviet empire and the beginning of the reunification of europe, we must assure ukraine, which is joining the union, of our full solidarity and unconditional support. the european people's party and hungary believe that we must provide all possible financial, economic and humanitarian assistance to our eastern partner, who is in a state of war without a weapon, and that we must also maintain the sanctions against russia until the minsk agreements are fully implemented. in the long run, however, economic and military means alone cannot bring about results. a political solution is needed to the russian-ukrainian-european confrontation and the crisis in ukraine in the geopolitical powerhouse of the emerging new eurasian world power centre and the euro-atlantic alliance.
in writing. the existence of national minority communities is a value that must be protected and safeguarded, inter alia, through the media, in schools and in public institutions. it is of the utmost importance that everyone in ukraine feels safe in the current situation, including the most vulnerable communities such as national minorities. the principle of 'zero tolerance' should be reinforced and enforced, condemning all forms of discrimination, in particular with regard to respect for human and minority rights. this is also true for the occupied crimean tatar territory, where respect for minority rights would be particularly important. any violation of this national community must be strongly condemned. the investigation of these would require the establishment of an independent commission of inquiry, as called for by the crimean tatar leaders.
in writing. in recent months, european public opinion has paid increased attention to ukraine. in order to achieve its european orientation, ukraine is facing a serious internal political crisis, a difficult economic situation and, in terms of foreign policy, a protracted and costly military conflict between russia and ukraine. the war in the eastern regions of ukraine is costing the country €5 million a day, a huge burden on the already weak ukrainian economy, inflation, price rises, an unmanageable tax burden and public utility costs for the civilian population whose standard of living is not even close to the lowest european minimum. i believe that radical measures are needed to bring about change: the elimination of corruption and double standards, the capitalisation of the economy, full respect for human and civil rights for both the majority and the minority. all efforts must be made to ensure that ukraine becomes a democratic european state governed by the rule of law. it is essential for all citizens of civil society, and thus for the rights of transcarpathian hungarians. the eu should take decisive steps to promote the peace process and provide all possible assistance to ukraine, both in terms of financial, expert and moral support, but also in terms of monitoring and controlling the reform process and the implementation of the adopted laws.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, and fellow citizens of europe who may be following us. or a very important position in the european union, the position of ombudsman. this is a serious legal activity, the essence of which is to examine the enforcement and enforcement of the rights of the 500 million european citizens, of whom there are more and more who suffer deprivation of rights. the extent to which their rights as guaranteed by law, case law and legal principles are being respected. i have a strange feeling because i have two cvs in my hand, one of the ombudsman's wife, and from this one it turns out that the other one is our reporter, from this strange picture it appears to us, which would probably surprise the law seekers, that our ombudsman, and this is obviously a mistake, so my request, my question is aimed at you to be kind enough to tell us what legal qualifications you have acquired during your life and how you are continuously training yourself in the field of law. your cv shows that you never studied law for a semester and your work is being audited by our colleague in parliament who has never studied law for a semester in his life. i'm sorry if this is a misunderstanding, but it's clear from their resumes.
it's a two-card draw. i would like to ask mr csáky a question, mr president, and tell him that he was referring to central europe. i would like to know if you could shed some light on what these typical central european problems are that concern the european ombudsman, because i myself come from central europe and i feel that there are differences between the different regions of europe.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, we all agreed here that the ombudsman is one of the most important institutions in europe and that mrs o'reilly has done quite a great job in the past. it is the institution that protects the rights of european citizens, it is the institution that stands for the predictability and transparency of the european institutions and thus works to improve the quality of democracy. mrs. o'reilly, allow me to draw your attention to the importance of your institution representing the rights and dignity of all those who are marginalized. those who don't have strong political advocacy skills. i ask you and your institution to pay particular attention to the capacity of these people to enforce their rights, to stand up for their rights and human dignity, in the spirit of an inclusive europe.
author. - madam president, i would like to welcome the high commissioner to this debate. every time we discuss a case of human rights problems or a lack of the rule of law in russia, we hope and wish that it will be the last such case we need to discuss in this chamber. in this case too i hope it will be the last one, but i am very much afraid that our hopes will be betrayed yet again. the case itself is very clear. alexei navalny was accused and tried on trumped-up charges for no other reason than because he dared to expose corruption at high levels of the russian state apparatus; for no other reason than the fact that he dared to run for office in opposition to putin’s rule and putin’s government. his brother, oleg navalny, was sentenced to three-and-a-half years in prison for no other reason than that of being the brother of alexei navalny. so, as i say, the case is clear, and i am sure that my colleagues could list a number of similar cases, as we do in fact in the resolution. threatening and intimidating political opposition through persecution and harassment of family members is one of the oldest tricks in the handbook of autocrats. it can work from time to time, but i am absolutely sure it is not going to work for all time, because it is a practice that violates our most basic sense of justice. an autocratic government running on an extreme nationalistic ticket will most likely present all these charges as being basically anti-russian. this is far from the truth. i know that there are many of us in this chamber who love and admire the achievements of the russian people and who wish for russia the sort of future in which such cases will never be mentioned in this chamber again because there will be no need to be looking for human rights violations in russia. this is, unfortunately, not the real future, and as long as alexei navalny and his colleagues are imprisoned and sentenced for depicting their vision of russia’s future, we have this duty, and we must be firm and thorough.
madam president, this alexei navalny appears to be the russian george of budapest, who is facing criminal charges and jail time for his civil rights activities. i would be as happy to stand up for his human rights as i was for george of buda, who, by the way, was completely ignored by parliament. i have a problem, though. here is point i of the preamble. it is as follows: 'there is a growing need for a coherent and comprehensive eu policy towards russia, supported by all member states and backed up by firm and fair criticism'. it is for this reason that the report introduces an action against an alleged human rights violation. i would also like to ask you, commissioner, the rapporteur and your colleagues, what exactly is the relationship between the intensification of the anti-russian and cold war sentiment in this room and the possibly justified human rights action.
in writing. i voted in favour of the 2013 annual report of the european ombudsman, which also includes the activities of the previous ombudsman. in my opinion, the ombudsman system is an important element of european democracy, the hungarian equivalent of which has unfortunately been restricted. since 2012, hungary has had one data protection commissioner instead of four, and the data protection commissioner has been replaced by an authority. i was pleased to find that the european ombudsman also investigated cases involving gmos. i should note that this issue needs to be given a lot of attention, as it is possible that there will be more cases in the future, also in the light of this week's new gmo regulation. the report shows that the most complaints were about eu projects. i think this is a very serious form of organized crime, and it often involves government officials. the fact that eu funds, which are supposed to improve people's lives, are often used by criminal groups. this causes deep and long-term damage to the entire community if these cases are not thoroughly investigated and punished. let the ombudsman system be a partner in this fight. i trust that the ombudsman's system will continue to pay due attention to these issues in the future.
in writing. - it is amazing the cynicism of the eu now trying to sort out the situation in libya, to solve the seemingly insoluble crisis. not to mention that the once-prosperous country was bombed into chaos by the air forces of some eu member states, and the eu was complicit in the brutal execution of its legitimate leader. all of this, of course, was necessary for the spread of democracy. it could be a special democracy, where the country's oil has gone into the hands of the multiculturalists, its gold reserves have disappeared, three years of civil war have been raging, thousands of refugees are heading for europe. the resolution argues against a military solution, calls for the involvement of the un, calls for action against terrorism, and therefore cannot be rejected or supported, because it does not address the root of the problem. it is interesting that the trampling of international law is always only in the case of other countries, and not even accidentally in the case of the eu.
in writing. - someone asked the people of your country, the leaders of the eu, on the 70th anniversary of the end of world war ii, do you want to be part of another world war? or are these respected leaders escalating the situation out of spite? for whose benefit? on whose authority? one group of mps offers real solutions to the problems, the others seek to preserve the state of war, or even to deepen the conflict. the resolution would have been supported by balanced amendments respecting all parties, but not without their adoption. if both the osce and amnesty international have exposed war crimes committed by the ukrainian army and ukrainian freedom fighters, why is the eu not sanctioning the people responsible? how many thousands of civilian casualties will it take for our democracy, which is so sensitive to human rights, to reach the threshold of its impetus?
in writing. in the coming period, the fate of ukraine will be a true test of our common foreign and security policy and of the eastern partnership. the outcome of our efforts could prove decisive for the security and stability of the region and the continent as a whole. the key to the eu's successful engagement in ukraine is consistency and unity: consistency must be reflected in our joint action to end the violence, to fully implement the minsk agreements and, above all, to reject the illegal annexation of the crimean peninsula, including clearly demanding the restoration of the original status quo. this is a matter of principle which cannot be subordinated to the considerations of political pragmatism. unity must be embodied in the policies of the union and its member states, in particular in our attitude towards russia and the sanctions issue. the restoration of cooperation with moscow is desirable, but this can only be achieved in the context of a genuine eu-russia dialogue. any attempt by member states to serve putin's tactics with their vague nuances along the lines of particular economic interests and individual political goals seriously harms the interests of ukraine, the region and the union. the high representative must also rely on the full authority of the commission and the european council to ensure that no member state government can further compromise the unity of the eu in dealing with the russian and ukrainian issues. given that the joint resolution reflects these issues adequately, i myself voted in favour of it.
mr. president, i have to go. one of the key issues for me in the vote on the european commission's work programme for 2015 was how one or another report on the ttip, the ongoing free trade negotiations between the european union and the united states, felt. i voted against the report by the ppe because it generally welcomes the commission's work programme and urges and in some ways supports the free trade agreement. i was surprised that my hungarian colleague took note of this report, when at home they are becoming very critical of this free trade agreement, because they see that behind many things it is actually this, although the appearance and reality are different. i was forced to vote for a left-wing programme or a left-wing report that has the opposite view and urges the immediate unwinding of the ttip secrecy.
in writing. - since day one the epp group has supported the 10 priorities of the juncker programme as they facilitate effective regulation. the other groups in the european parliament wanted to water the proposals down by increasing them to more than 200. this would have adversely affected the successful implementation of the programme. based on the framework agreement between the commission and the parliament and the rules of procedure, the programme has already been adopted and has entered into force. for this reason as well we have opposed the adoption of any resolution since the beginning. there is no legal or political obligation for the ep to adopt a resolution.
in writing. the commission's work programme for 2015 is very important, but it sets out realistic targets. of course, there are shortcomings in all such work programmes, but i was pleased to note, for example, that the commission attaches great importance to the issue of tax havens, tax fraud and tax avoidance. in the current situation, the european union cannot afford to let tax havens further damage its economy, so the proposal that companies pay tax where they make their profits is certainly welcome. with measures towards a tax union, we can achieve major results in all member states. uniform, predictable and transparent tax laws can provide incentives for economic operators to shoulder their tax burden. the revitalized economic environment is attracting fresh money into the system and is also stimulating employment. i voted in favour of the s&d group's resolution, which also raises other important issues. for example, i am confident that the overdosage problem will be given priority attention in the revision of tax laws. this is not only important for correcting systemic flaws, but it would also help restore social justice. in addition to economic development, the restoration of citizens' trust in the eu institutions would be a very important outcome of these steps. i am confident that the commission will continue to be open to the proposals of the socialists and democrats and that we can work constructively for the future of europe.
in writing. - it is very moving to see the continuous concern in the european parliament for the repression of all media workers, journalists, from all over the world. mostly, of course, because of those who are working to destabilize the country, working to implement scenarios like the arab spring, the maidan, working for the benefit of global interests. we need real press freedom, not hypocrisy, so this resolution cannot be supported in this form. turkey today is a thriving, dynamic country, which is not without its problems, but it does not want to be in the same situation as libya and therefore it is able to do so.
in writing. i voted in favour of the resolution because i consider it important to maintain a critical dialogue with turkey, an important candidate partner. the resolution is a strong warning to the turkish government that the eu will not accept any further repression of european democratic values, including the gross violation of the freedom of the press, the most important guarantee of democracy. such steps jeopardise the success of the accession process and highlight the need to pay greater attention to the rule of law, civil rights and legality in the context of accession negotiations. the development of democratic relations in turkey is also important for the european union, as the country is an important reference point for many other countries in the region and thus influences the prospects of the eu's neighbourhood policy. in addition, as a hungarian politician, i am forced to take into account the absurd and dangerous phenomenon that the head of the hungarian government recently cited the authoritarian methods of turkish leadership as a kind of example to follow, alongside the practices of other states with a serious lack of democracy. i hope that the european parliament's resolute position will help the turkish government to realise the serious consequences of the breakdown of democracy and to turn back from this dangerous path.
anyone with a heart is shocked when innocent people die as a result of terrorism. but if you use your heart and your mind at the same time, you also see that it's very possible to use people's natural fear of terrorism to introduce policies that take away more and more of people's freedoms and rights, and give control of citizens to a small, opaque, uncontrollable, enormously powerful group, and that's clearly not what we want. now, let's not forget that in the name of the war on terror, or the war on terrorism, the western world has introduced total control over internet communications, wiretaps. that's why they're still torturing prisoners at guantanamo without a trial or a charge. this has led to two unjust and unjustified wars that have resulted in the deaths of hundreds of thousands of civilians. all these measures have not prevented, but made more dangerous... (the president cut the speaker off)
in writing. the paris terror attacks shocked the whole of europe, and the interior ministers reacted immediately, holding an extraordinary meeting in the days after the attacks. i consider it important that the priorities have been set: the management of foreign fighters, the fight against radicalisation, the strengthening of cooperation and the exchange of information between the competent member state and international authorities. i believe that security at the external borders must also be strengthened, while respecting the maintenance of smooth border traffic, fundamental freedoms and security standards. at the same time, these measures must not jeopardise one of the most important of the union's acquis, freedom of movement, the functioning of the schengen system. we need a united front, a coherent response to terrorism. they must not be allowed to incite hatred, fear, division in our societies. this includes action against radicalisation. the increasing use of the internet to incite hatred and violence is a cause for concern and action is needed partnerships between the largest internet service providers are essential in this regard. addressing the causes of youth radicalisation is a major challenge. the events in paris also confirmed the urgent need for police training in europe to respond quickly to these challenges, which is not to be confused with the police office in the hague, europol. as parliamentary rapporteur on the report on the functioning of cepol, i am currently working to ensure that this important institution is regulated in the future on a sound basis.
in writing. the impact of brutal attacks by terrorists is shocking. in addition to the need to respond appropriately to these attacks and to provide a truly effective response - that is, not just measures of appearance - it is also important to bear in mind that the police and national security services of the member states prevent many of these vile acts. we, the elected representatives, must also call attention to this. however, such actions also draw attention to the importance of european police training and police cooperation. it is clear that in the future, the role of organisations such as cepol, which encourage cross-border cooperation to combat crime and maintain public security, law and order, will need to be strengthened.
in writing. having heard the unilateral submission of commissioner dimitris avramopoulos on counter-terrorism measures, i am deeply disappointed that he treats the whole complex issue as a technical, professional and security policy issue and accordingly his proposals for measures do not go beyond the protection of personal data and better information exchange, adequate infrastructure or flawless passenger registers. but it was limited to the direct prevention and punishment of crime, and it did not say a word about the social background and moral dimension of terrorism. while condemning the paris attacks unconditionally and expressing our full sympathy for the victims, we must also see that our liberal social order and our flawed immigration policy have played a role in the current situation and that not only the terrorists but also our entire legislature and legal system bear a heavy responsibility for what happened. the right to freedom of expression cannot be a free violation of the faith and human dignity of others. freedom of movement cannot mean the unfettered freedom of movement of terrorists. on the other hand, freedom of conscience and religion are also european values which must not be infringed by the exercise of other freedoms. consequently, there is a need for a legal order in europe that not only punishes terrorist arbitrariness but also prohibits blasphemy and blasphemous speech, in other words, the abuse of freedoms. this could be an effective antidote and preventive measure against acts of terrorism by those who are offended by their beliefs.
it's a two-card draw. madam president, i have to ask you to leave. i would like to ask the honourable member if we understand that you have serious concerns about this fund. i am not saying that the new fund will in any way divert national or other resources from existing and important community investments. that's what i want to get straight.
the juncker plan is seen by many here as a miracle weapon. the figure is impressive: 315 billion euros, of which 21 billion comes from the eu and we expect 15 times that from the private sector. so this isn't a miracle weapon, it's more like a miracle cure. what could be so tempting to the private sector? the fact that these are high-risk investments and that the responsibility lies with the state, with public money. we in hungary have very negative experiences with this type of ppp cooperation. if economic development is not an end in itself, then the main objective must be job creation. in the union, 66.8% of jobs are in smes. this means that the main task would be to help, invest and position smes.
in writing. the european fund for strategic investments aims to increase liquidity in markets, to finance investments that are deemed too risky by market participants but which pay off, and thus to kick-start the european economy. the draft regulation assures us that, despite the reallocation of resources, the infrastructure and r & d and innovation areas will not be disadvantaged. moreover, the overall amount allocated to these policy areas will increase as a result of the multiplier effect. this is a key issue for parliament. the condition for our support is that the support for these projects actually increases and does not decrease: the entire investment plan can be legitimate if the objectives of the european network and horizon 2020 programmes agreed jointly by the commission and parliament are not compromised and are implemented through the economic recovery plan. my colleagues have argued before for r&amp;d, for innovation, and i'm going to argue for energy infrastructure. there is no better return on investment than increasing security of supply, thus avoiding the high costs of crisis situations, and ending price negotiations from a vulnerable position. another area in the energy field is the financing of energy efficiency projects, which also benefits everyone: europe's energy dependency is reduced and the energy bill of the consumer is reduced. i ask the commission to take these aspects into account.
in writing. a transparent and sustainable europe! strategic investments to start the engine of european development? a good idea the hungarian example shows what opportunities and pitfalls are involved. in hungary, the level of investments expanded for the first time in 2013 after the 2008 crisis. the increase was still exclusively in industrial and infrastructure investments, mainly due to eu support. for example, a section of the underground motorway is being built at twice the german price with european taxpayers' money, and a new railway is being built at the same cost as a brand new high-speed railway in austria. the construction of a russian-technology and russian-funded nuclear power plant in paks is the price of a huge accumulation of statelessness. is this the model for european economic recovery? or the construction of the audi plant in a natura 2000 area with a subsidy of 40 million per new job? it's not the future, it's the past. strategic investments should build the future, rather than repeating past mistakes: for example, the creation of an integrated european energy market, climate protection (a fifth of the expenditure on strategic investments should be directed to climate protection), and the achievement of renewable, energy efficiency and emission reduction targets that are much more ambitious than at present. a sustainability analysis shall be carried out on each investment to screen out environmentally harmful subsidies. full transparency in investment decision-making should be introduced with the involvement of ngos and accountability should be established to curb corruption. this package can guarantee that the investment programme is not a vehicle for theft and waste but a vehicle for putting europe on a sustainable path.
the lima climate summit is considered a success because a signed document was born. why would that be a success in itself, when the un says that the main goal of keeping global warming below 2 degrees has not been achieved? the european union is once again setting more ambitious targets and taking the lead in reducing emissions. but why don't we consider that we're responsible for 10% of global emissions. it would be far more important to get the us and china, the two biggest polluters, to make a real commitment. china and india, by the way, signed the document because they -- as developing countries -- were guaranteed that the wealthiest would support them in climate investments. i ask you: will the eu and its member state, hungary, support china, which is the second largest economy in the world, with huge financial reserves? (the intervener agrees to answer a question referred for a preliminary ruling (article 162 (8) of the rules of procedure). )
it's a two-card draw. in fact, it is about the international or global aspects of climate action. but i respectfully ask, and i would like to ask the honorable member's opinion on this, is it not easier to deal with the energy that is given here on the surface of the earth? do we have to mine everywhere all the time and haul energy carriers 10,000 miles?
that's a two-card answer. it is not clear whether the question referred to my speech. the shift of 10,000 kilometres is precisely the independence of the european energy system that many of us have been talking about. and i'm telling you, a good climate solution, a clean, non-polluting solution, that doesn't have to be carried along long lines of energy: namely, nuclear power plants. so i suggest that the congressman take a stand for climate action.
in writing. mr president, ladies and gentlemen of the house of representatives, the united nations climate change conference this december aims to produce an international agreement to replace the kyoto protocol. the new agreement must be ambitious, legally binding and applicable to all. the fight against climate change is a matter for all nations, a responsibility for all of us, and one that we all share. the lima accord, signed at the end of last year, requires both developed and developing countries to announce their specific national commitments to keep global temperature rise below 2 degrees celsius. scientists agree that below this threshold, the harmful effects of climate change are still manageable and are becoming more evident to all as extreme weather events become more frequent and water and agricultural resources decline. hungary has always been a committed supporter of the fight against climate change. it has far exceeded its previous emission reduction targets. as a member of the european union, our country is currently part of the international community's most ambitious emission reduction commitment. it is known that the eu's climate and energy policy framework adopted last october set a 40% emission reduction target for 2030. however, in addition to encouraging national commitments, european diplomacy should aim to facilitate reconciliation between developed and developing countries before paris. the most pressing issues, including climate change adaptation and its financing in developing countries, are still to be resolved.
it's a two-card draw. - my dear fellow members of parliament. he said that russia wanted to have some sort of balkanizing and controlling influence on the internet in the world. i'm not sure i'm right in thinking that edward snowden, who exposed the us's total control of the internet, is currently in russia, where he has been granted asylum. and from there, he's going to continue his exploration. how do you reconcile that fact with what you just said?
let's get down to business. i would like to ask the commissioner responsible, what is the current state of intelligence surveillance of the internet traffic of european citizens? because my fellow congressman here has listed the kinds of people outside the law who can use the internet. such outlaws are, for example, the intelligence services which, in defiance of all human rights principles and rules in the united states, or in the context of the so-called operation five eyes, which was conducted jointly by the united states, the united kingdom and three other countries, monitored the entire internet traffic of european citizens, including their correspondence. the european parliament adopted a report on this almost a year ago. please inform the house, commissioner, of the current state of play. are the united states and the british secret service still illegally monitoring the internet and the correspondence of european citizens? that's an interesting and important question.
mr president, i wonder whether the commissioner should not answer some questions by members of this parliament. the commissioner obviously wrote this – or it was written by somebody, i do not know whom – but somebody wrote this exposé. the first half of it was read beforehand, the second half after the so-called debate. this is not why we are here. as a member of this parliament and an elected politician i want your answer to my question.
in writing. renewal of the internet governance forum's mandate is essential to guarantee multi-stakeholder participation in the adoption of internet-related rules as one of the most important forums for internet governance. it should be avoided that member states agree on exclusive governance of the internet by means of an intergovernmental agreement only and excluding business, experts and ngos, and that such an agreement contains elements that are harmful to freedom of expression, democracy and fundamental human values, as well as to the renewability of the internet and to the continuous promotion of sustainable economic development. in order to maximise transparency, it is necessary to frame the discourse within the igf, which is under the un mandate. as has become clear by now, the internet has a huge role to play in the recovery of the economy. i therefore support the inclusion in the igf resolution of the view that protecting net neutrality is an essential precondition for freedom of expression and information, and for growth, job creation, innovation and business opportunities.
it's a two-card draw. i'd like to ask mrs. sommer a question. i'm a consumer, not just a politician. i've come across products where not only the ingredients of the meat, but everything, every last corner, every last digit, is beautifully displayed, and these foods are not more expensive than the others. on the other hand, where goods of unacceptable origin are processed into meat products, it would obviously be an additional cost to confess or to exchange them for quality meat. mrs. sommer, i'm afraid of him. and i'm asking you this: are you really protecting food-players from normal producers?
the indication of the place of origin of meat used as an ingredient in foodstuffs is also required by 90% of the population according to data communicated by the commission. we are so proud to be directly representing the european population, so why are there absurd excuses that this labelling would increase the price of meat by 50%? yes, if someone has used the thinnest material yet. and now, with the origin and traceability, you should be able to get away with it. first, the commission argued that the labelling would be the same as eu or non-eu. obviously, that's not enough. we need a place of origin. although i have to say, it's very sad, if the us-eu free trade agreement comes into being, then even that will be very important. and that's why we urgently need legislation to stop cloned, hormone-treated meat products from entering the european market.
in fact, the bottom line of this debate today is that consumers do want to know where different meat products come from. and to those who would argue against this, i say to them that any meat processor - if it is necessary to indicate the origin of the raw material - will think a hundred times about what he is going to put in his product. and that's what helps the food security of european citizens. and it's not that they have to keep eating the different products with their eyes closed. i think it's a good idea to find a normal solution that doesn't involve the food industry, but makes us all happy.
in writing. the european parliament's environment committee wants to get a political resolution adopted by parliament calling on the european commission to introduce legislation requiring the mandatory indication of the country of origin or place of provenance of meat in processed foods. this request raises serious economic and internal market concerns. the commission's impact assessment shows that although 90% of consumers are interested in the country of origin of meat products, 80% of them would not support the indication of the country of origin of meat if this would result in an increase in the consumer price of food. the introduction of mandatory marking would increase the costs of meat processors significantly, by 30%. the processors would pass on all the additional costs (according to the commission, 90% of these costs) to the consumers, and the impact study therefore expects a consumer price increase of 6-9%. therefore, the country of origin mark should not be introduced on meat products. the majority of these products are typically purchased by poorer people who would no longer be able to afford these products following a significant price increase. finally, i should like to point out that the food fraud known as the 'horse meat scandal' last year could not be prevented, despite the fact that the indication of origin has been mandatory for beef since the crisis caused by bse in 2000. i therefore ask the commission, regardless of the ep's position, to refrain from introducing a mandatory indication of the country of origin or place of provenance.
in the light of the escalation of the ukrainian-russian conflict, the decision of the foreign ministers of the european union to extend the sanctions against certain individuals on the blacklist for a further six months and to introduce new economic sanctions is welcome. however, when preparing sanctions, we must be aware that russia is not only a threat to ukrainian sovereignty, but also to european unity. the growing support for russia and some of its actions within the european union is no accident. sanctions should therefore ensure that neither parties nor politicians at national nor european level receive russian financial support in order to serve russian political objectives and thereby undermine common european values. so my suggestion is that incorporating this consideration into the new sanctions would not only allow us to put pressure on the kremlin to withdraw all support from separatist groups, but would also help to prevent russia from influencing european or national decisions by funding extremist political forces in individual member states.
after the gradual reduction of roaming surcharges, the european commission put forward a proposal in 2013 to abolish roaming surcharges. this was supported by a large majority in the european parliament, and we did it in 2014. we were only waiting for the council's approval and support, which was promised for december, but that did not happen. in fact, the first proposal of the latvian presidency when it took office was to renegotiate this framework, it came up with a new proposal, which is about having a basic pro-aming framework, and up to this point you can only make a phone call or even initiate a text message or use the internet. so this is a completely new proposal. i think it's nothing more than a disappointment to 500 million eu citizens that they can't enjoy this cost reduction, this. i respectfully ask the president to urge the council to support the original proposal and i ask the commission to take note of its original proposal. because if that does not happen, the latvian presidency's proposal would create a completely new situation that would be good for no one, least of all for the citizens of the union.
i'm not going to let you do this. please finish your remarks. this is not a debate, this was an announcement.
the following point is the commission statement initiatives taken in the context of the ilo debate on the right to strike (2015/2553 ((rsp))
i'm not going to let you down. i'm closing this comment period. no more blue cards for the same question. congressman, i'm not giving you the floor. i'm not giving you the floor. the following comments... no one understands you without a microphone.
in fact, today's debate shows that the only actors that can be punished for strikes, i.e. workers, employers and, in the case of the state that regulates, workers, are the ones who can be punished. i think that in future regulation we should also pay attention to this - and especially here in the european community we may have the possibility - that if the regulation is a state offence, there should also be some kind of feedback or sanction. if employers create a situation that causes a strike, there should be a penalty for that too. the other, and here i would turn to the commission. in my view, the ttip can only be concluded, and only worth signing, if we are to achieve not only industrial standards but also labour standards.
member of the commission. - madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the right to strike is a fundamental right. that is what article 28 of our charter of fundamental rights says. this is stated in article 11 of the european convention on human rights. and that is also what is said - at least that is how we have always interpreted convention 87 - in that convention of the international labour organisation. i have noticed that many of you share the commission's concern. a double concern: the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's social policy is not distorted by the fact that it is not in conformity with the treaty. you yourself have stressed in your speeches why this is not desirable or desirable. we all know that the member states are first and foremost members of the international labour organisation. the commission is only present as an observer. but, as i said in my introduction, the commission will be very active in supporting the member states, assisting them in the discussions and making an effort where necessary to reach a common position or to maintain the united position that has been achieved. the importance of the meeting at the end of february cannot be underestimated. it's an informal tripartite meeting. i hope that a consensus will be reached. if it is not, we will look at how to proceed, but the informal conclusion that is drawn there will be transferred - you know the structure of the international labour organisation - to the governing board of the international labour organisation. a final decision will then have to be taken in march. you can be sure that the commission, together with our delegation in geneva and the member states, will do everything possible to achieve a positive result. you know that the commission attaches great importance to social dialogue. some of you have also pointed that out. we will promote it at all levels, both internationally and within our own european union.
i'll close this discussion. the commission shall be assisted by the committee established by article 15 of regulation (eu) no 182/2011.
in writing. unfortunately, all over the world, not just in europe, the balance between the employer and employee side is becoming imbalanced: employers have an increasingly strong and workers a decreasingly strong influence on working conditions. in this environment, one of the most effective tools workers have is the strike. the right to strike has been a right of workers and their trade unions in europe since the 20th century, and the ilo convention no 87 on freedom of association and the right to organise, to which all eu member states are party, has recognised this right in practice, if not expressly. since 2012, the employers' side of the ilo has been debating the right of workers to strike, and this effort has been quietly supported by governments in asia, africa, and even some european governments. this is completely unacceptable. the role of european governments and the european commission is not to blindly serve business interests but to ensure the conditions for social dialogue and to promote a balanced dialogue between the parties. the best example of behaviour that is the opposite of the true role of governments is my own country. since the 2010 amendment to the hungarian strike law, the precondition for striking has been for the parties to agree on sufficient conditions. this made it practically impossible for hungarian workers to exercise the right to strike. it is clear that the creation of decent working conditions is not possible without maintaining a balance of power and dialogue, which is based on the right to strike.
the following point is inserted after point (a) of article 2 (1) of regulation (eu) no 1303/2013 of the european parliament and of the council:
listening to this debate today, a lot of people in the house are talking about their own country's experience, including me, who said that it's as if some governments don't really want this program. so what we see is that on the one hand, here in the european parliament, in the european commission, we have done a lot for the youth guarantee programme, and somehow then national implementation is stalled. some even said it was sabotaging his government. by the way, unfortunately, this is also the case in hungary, the government does not take the necessary steps. in fact, i would ask how this programme could be made more attractive, so that it is not only liked by the union itself but also by the member states. and actually, what's happened so far is that there's a place for accountability, because a lot of countries, besides not liking it, are actually using this program for some kind of statistical cosmetic. we need real jobs, and that's why i'm asking.
in writing. with regard to the youth guarantee, i would like to point out that the change in jobs between 2008 and 2010 was such that in practice there was only positive growth in permanent or full-time jobs in terms of quality jobs, while the majority of new jobs were characterised by a more precarious status. it is important to pay attention not only to highly qualified young people, but also to unskilled young people, to give them jobs, training opportunities, but even this is difficult, because often it is an obstacle that they simply cannot obtain a diploma because they do not have a language exam (the hungarian government also encourages this by a special measure). the hungarian government has already launched a large-scale programme to support young people in recent years. as a reminder, unemployment was only 11% in 2002 (15-24), 27% in 2010 and it can be said that, based on the work of recent years, it has now fallen to around 20%, half that of spain or greece and better than that of france, belgium or finland. but we can't stop there. we need to take further steps.
my fellow citizens! unfortunately, it took almost 20 years for europe itself to realise that the total and almost totally uncontrolled liberalisation of markets had caused enormous social and economic damage in europe, including in central and eastern europe. following the regime change in 1989/90, a huge wave of privatisation took place in the eastern half of europe, with almost one million people losing their jobs in hungary alone. it seems that we have to learn the lesson over and over again that market liberalization should only be achieved between countries with nearly identical or similar economic strengths. otherwise, social differences will change dramatically. i find the employee financial participation program useful, but i also find it historically overdue. i welcome this form of protection for workers, but i also draw attention to the need to pay particular attention to the cost of living, in particular european energy prices, thus improving europe's competitiveness.
i agree with president plenković and with high representative mogherini that the priority is to find a peaceful solution and to find a diplomatic solution. even if i understand the emotions, after many years of building europe, vladimir putin simply kicked us out. i would like to ask everyone to remain calm and collected, and also to tell the high representative that i am missing the european high representative from the group pictures. it's not a good message to the european citizens that only the leaders of the great powers are negotiating this conflict. the more so because you are here a lot in parliament, so you can represent what is being said here. but what i want to talk about is... this aggressor, vladimir putin, will be entering the european union next week, in budapest, hungary, as a guest of viktor orbán, though i don't know if he'll be taking kalashnikov back to him or not. they're not going to negotiate about ukraine, they're going to negotiate on a business-as-usual basis. i feel that this is not good for european unity and i would like to see that at the european council next week, the leaders of all the member states use their influence to suppress this particular voice, this voice that is disruptive of unity.
mr president, madam high representative, i would like to thank you for your service. unfortunately, since the ukraine decision a few weeks ago, the situation has not improved, but has greatly worsened in terms of civilian casualties and the economic situation of the country. so it's important that this is back on the agenda. i am confident that chancellor angela merkel and president françois hollande are making serious efforts to find a diplomatic solution to the ukrainian-russian conflict and that the european union is also supporting a negotiated political solution and is calling for an early peace. however, there is serious concern that the russian leadership still does not acknowledge that they are supporting the separatists with money and weapons, and does not accept political responsibility for the escalation of the situation. as a result, hundreds of people die and thousands are displaced, and many more die needlessly. therefore, many agree that there is no military solution to the conflict and that it is harmful both for the european union, ukraine and russia, but above all the ukrainian citizens feel the gravity of the situation. they feel insecure in their daily lives, they live in fear, in poverty, and russian propaganda only aggravates this situation with more horror stories. it is therefore imperative that there be an immediate ceasefire. remove heavy weapons from the area, ensure the safety of the civilian population and take into account the comprehensive guarantee of the rights of all nationalities living in the country, in addition to international guarantees. that's the main job.
does commissioner mogherini agree that international law should be required not only from russia but also from ukraine? for example, the right to national self-determination is a fundamental human right guaranteed by international law. ukraine should be required to 1. respect and guarantee the collective and individual human rights of indigenous national communities whether it is the russian community or the transcarpathian hungarian community that is closest to my heart. the second. transcarpathia is largely inhabited by hungarians. from this area, it is now proven that twice as many men are conscripted into the ukrainian army as from other areas. what is this if not a violation? that's a lot of discrimination. the third. even the conscription of a single hungarian would be too much, because it is also a violation of human dignity, and it also violates the prohibition of inhuman treatment. this is not a hungarian war, my lady.
it's a two-card draw. i am trying to be very quick at this late hour, and although i am asking this as a question to the previous speaker, i could have asked others. do you and your group agree that we should take much, much stricter criminal measures to combat the illegal removal of children?
it's a two-card draw. you said that weapons are flowing out of europe and that we are contributing to the various conflicts. although there is a reverse process, money flows from russia to europe. and i ask you, do you agree that the various funds coming from russia should not be accepted by european political organisations?
i would like to draw the attention of the european parliament, the european commission and the heads of state or government meeting tomorrow to a very important and dramatic fact in the context of counter-terrorism measures. this is because at this time, terrorist groups or elements, whether armed or armed with explosives, can enter the territory of the european union without any further action. and that's because the european union's external schengen border is completely unguarded for a very long period of time. now the international press has made it public - i'm surprised that this was not discussed here today - that every day about 1 500 border crossers cross the hungarian-serbian border, in the area of asothalom and its surroundings, without any controls. most of them are kosovars, but there are a very large number of syrians, afghans, people from different african countries. there is virtually no control over their identity or the objects they bring with them. i'm waiting for the commissioner's response to what he thinks about this. i also expect measures to be taken on behalf of the hungarian people in southern hungary, whose lives are made impossible, hellish by what is happening on the southern border because of the lack of border security.
there's a very important council meeting tomorrow. so it's also important to take a step back and look at how right our actions, our decisions, our actions have been. looking back at the european union's response to the crisis, we see that these steps were highly uncertain. in fact, we see that we have forgotten that this is a community, that we are in solidarity with each other, that we have to listen to each other's decisions, and that we should not put obstacles in each other's way, but think together. i think we've made that mistake with terrorism, which was very, very right. we also have to look at what are the important tasks that we have to do. i don't know if this extraordinary summit is the right place for it, but we have very important tasks to do. there are 26 million unemployed within the european union. and in the meantime, we do not celebrate the decisions that some member states have taken and brought to fruition. my country, hungary, for example, has given very important subsidies to workers under 25 years of age, reducing their burden. i'm talking about a contribution reduction of 14.5%. or in the case of the trainees, the government has been paying for this burden for two years. i think these are good practices. i expect the commission not only to receive criticism but to bring these proposals to the european decision-making process as a result of joint decisions. there is no avoiding the issue of migration, of course. it's been discussed, but i think it's politically correct not to talk about it openly. on the other hand, we don't openly talk about the fact that we have fundamental rights that are under threat - such as the free movement of labour. i expect the council to answer these questions.
in writing. as rapporteur for the european council's final accounts for the financial year 2012 and as the people's party's discharge officer for the financial year 2013, i consider it important to say that the interinstitutional debate on the discharge of the council and the european council, which has been on the agenda of the committee on budgetary control and the european parliament for years, is expected to remain deadlocked this year. the european parliament is expected to postpone the discharge of the institution again this year. it is in the common interest of the institutions that the issues in dispute be settled and that in future the council be granted the same immunity as the other institutions of the european union.
in writing. greece's problems as expected were not solved in one fell swoop by the victory of the radical left in syria, despite the outcry of many european politicians. i'm convinced that being left-handed doesn't mean that the loan you took out is not going to be repaid. the left is not content to promise more when the national debt is almost twice the gross national product. it is true that in recent years the right-wing leaders of europe have reached the threshold of society's tolerance: more austerity is not acceptable to the greeks, when more than half of the youth are unemployed and the size of greek emigration since the crisis years is comparable only to that of hungary. however, seven years after the crisis, the greek economy is also showing signs of life, with growth forecast by the commission to be 3% in 2015 and almost 4% in 2016. spain's economy is growing again after the dark years, portugal is starting to stabilize. we cannot tell millions of european citizens that their sacrifices were in vain, that there is another way. a better life requires more performance. the popularity of the syrians is only due to the fact that they have never been responsible for governing. if the greek prime minister continues with his promising, unrealistic policies, his star will soon be extinguished, and a painful sobering up will follow. it's a message to all the opposition parties in hungary that call themselves democratic.
in writing. i voted in favour of the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on safeguard measures provided for in the agreement with iceland. i consider the codification procedure to be of paramount importance in order to make the union acquis transparent. as a member of the joint committee of the eu/eea parliament, switzerland, norway and iceland, i also consider it important that the various agreements are clear, easy to understand and accessible to everyone. it is therefore important that the provisions, as amended many times, are available in a single place in a consolidated form. the report has helped to simplify and harmonise the structure of this provision.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the measures that the union may take following the adoption of a report by the wto dispute settlement body on anti-dumping and anti-subsidy matters. transparency of union legislation is essential to ensure that it is clear, easily understandable and accessible to all. it is therefore important that the provisions, as amended many times, are available in a single place in a consolidated form. the report contributed to this by adopting a simple, uniform structure of the above provision.
in writing. international law, including eu law, is based on ensuring that the most vulnerable members of society, children, are protected in the most effective way under all circumstances. one of the instruments is the hague convention of 25 october 1980 on the civil aspects of illegal removal of children, which has been ratified by all eu member states. the convention establishes a system of international cooperation among the contracting states to resolve cases involving the illegal removal of children. in most cases, the source of the problem is the divorce of parents of different nationalities who try to obtain custody of the children by exploiting the lack of international cooperation. the biggest problem in these cases is the different legal frameworks in different states. the convention is intended to provide a remedy, a solution, to such cases. it is therefore essential that as many states as possible accede to this convention.
in writing. the hague convention on the civil aspects of illegal removal of children is a very important legal instrument. all the member states of the european union are part of it. the convention provides a system of cooperation for contracting states to find solutions to cases of illegal removal of children. these problems are most common in parents going through a divorce. the spouse from the other state can take advantage of the lack of cooperation between the states in order to obtain child custody. the biggest problem in such cases is the national nature of the legal systems of the states. often the courts of both states concerned consider the matter to be within their jurisdiction and award custody to the parent of their own nationality. the convention aims to resolve such situations at international level by stipulating that the law of the state of the child's residence is applicable and that the case falls within the jurisdiction of the court of that state. the convention also establishes a system to ensure the immediate return of children who have been illegally removed. i therefore consider it of the utmost importance that all states which have not yet done so should accede to the convention.
in writing. gabon's accession to the hague convention is a necessary step to ensure that the member states party to the convention can take the broadest possible action against the smuggling of children abroad. i support this proposal because the protection of children is of paramount importance in all circumstances and all possible legal means must be used.
in writing. international law, including eu law, is based on ensuring that the most vulnerable members of society, children, are protected in the most effective way under all circumstances. one of the instruments is the hague convention of 25 october 1980 on the civil aspects of illegal removal of children, which has been ratified by all eu member states. the convention establishes a system of international cooperation among the contracting states to resolve cases involving the illegal removal of children. in most cases, the source of the problem is the divorce of parents of different nationalities who try to obtain custody of the children by exploiting the lack of international cooperation. the biggest problem in these cases is the different legal frameworks in different states. the convention is intended to provide a remedy, a solution, to such cases. it is therefore essential that as many states as possible accede to this convention.
in writing. the hague convention on the civil aspects of illegal removal of children is a very important legal instrument. all the member states of the european union are part of it. the convention provides a system of cooperation for contracting states to find solutions to cases of illegal removal of children. these problems are most common in parents going through a divorce. the spouse from the other state can take advantage of the lack of cooperation between the states in order to obtain child custody. the biggest problem in such cases is the national nature of the legal systems of the states. often the courts of both states concerned consider the matter to be within their jurisdiction and award custody to the parent of their own nationality. the convention aims to resolve such situations at international level by stipulating that the law of the state of the child's residence is applicable and that the case falls within the jurisdiction of the court of that state. the convention also establishes a system to ensure the immediate return of children who have been illegally removed. i therefore consider it of the utmost importance that all states which have not yet done so should accede to the convention.
in writing. the accession of andorra to the hague convention is a necessary step to ensure that the member states party to the convention can take action against the smuggling of children as widely as possible. i support this proposal because the protection of children is of paramount importance in all circumstances and all possible legal means must be used.
in writing. international law, including eu law, is based on ensuring that the most vulnerable members of society, children, are protected in the most effective way under all circumstances. one of the instruments is the hague convention of 25 october 1980 on the civil aspects of illegal removal of children, which has been ratified by all eu member states. the convention establishes a system of international cooperation among the contracting states to resolve cases involving the illegal removal of children. in most cases, the source of the problem is the divorce of parents of different nationalities who try to obtain custody of the children by exploiting the lack of international cooperation. the biggest problem in these cases is the different legal frameworks in different states. the convention is intended to provide a remedy, a solution, to such cases. it is therefore essential that as many states as possible accede to this convention.
in writing. the hague convention on the civil aspects of illegal removal of children is a very important legal instrument. all the member states of the european union are part of it. the convention provides a system of cooperation for contracting states to find solutions to cases of illegal removal of children. these problems are most common in parents going through a divorce. the spouse from the other state can take advantage of the lack of cooperation between the states in order to obtain child custody. the biggest problem in such cases is the national nature of the legal systems of the states. often the courts of both states concerned consider the matter to be within their jurisdiction and award custody to the parent of their own nationality. the convention aims to resolve such situations at international level by stipulating that the law of the state of the child's residence is applicable and that the case falls within the jurisdiction of the court of that state. the convention also establishes a system to ensure the immediate return of children who have been illegally removed. i therefore consider it of the utmost importance that all states which have not yet done so should accede to the convention.
in writing. the accession of the seychelles to the hague convention is a necessary step to ensure that the member states party to the convention can take the broadest possible action against the smuggling of children. i support this proposal because the protection of children is of paramount importance in all circumstances and all possible legal means must be used.
in writing. international law, including eu law, is based on ensuring that the most vulnerable members of society, children, are protected in the most effective way under all circumstances. one of the instruments is the hague convention of 25 october 1980 on the civil aspects of illegal removal of children, which has been ratified by all eu member states. the convention establishes a system of international cooperation among the contracting states to resolve cases involving the illegal removal of children. in most cases, the source of the problem is the divorce of parents of different nationalities who try to obtain custody of the children by exploiting the lack of international cooperation. the biggest problem in these cases is the different legal frameworks in different states. the convention is intended to provide a remedy, a solution, to such cases. it is therefore essential that as many states as possible accede to this convention.
in writing. the hague convention on the civil aspects of illegal removal of children is a very important legal instrument. all the member states of the european union are part of it. the convention provides a system of cooperation for contracting states to find solutions to cases of illegal removal of children. these problems are most common in parents going through a divorce. the spouse from the other state can take advantage of the lack of cooperation between the states in order to obtain child custody. the biggest problem in such cases is the national nature of the legal systems of the states. often the courts of both states concerned consider the matter to be within their jurisdiction and award custody to the parent of their own nationality. the convention aims to resolve such situations at international level by stipulating that the law of the state of the child's residence is applicable and that the case falls within the jurisdiction of the court of that state. the convention also establishes a system to ensure the immediate return of children who have been illegally removed. i therefore consider it of the utmost importance that all states which have not yet done so should accede to the convention.
in writing. the accession of the russian federation to the hague convention is a necessary step to ensure that the member states party to the convention take the widest possible action against the smuggling of children abroad. i support this proposal because the protection of children is of paramount importance in all circumstances and all possible legal means must be used.
in writing. international law, including eu law, is based on ensuring that the most vulnerable members of society, children, are protected in the most effective way under all circumstances. one of the instruments is the hague convention of 25 october 1980 on the civil aspects of illegal removal of children, which has been ratified by all eu member states. the convention establishes a system of international cooperation among the contracting states to resolve cases involving the illegal removal of children. in most cases, the source of the problem is the divorce of parents of different nationalities who try to obtain custody of the children by exploiting the lack of international cooperation. the biggest problem in these cases is the different legal frameworks in different states. the convention is intended to provide a remedy, a solution, to such cases. it is therefore essential that as many states as possible accede to this convention.
in writing. the hague convention on the civil aspects of illegal removal of children is a very important legal instrument. all the member states of the european union are part of it. the convention provides a system of cooperation for contracting states to find solutions to cases of illegal removal of children. these problems are most common in parents going through a divorce. the spouse from the other state can take advantage of the lack of cooperation between the states in order to obtain child custody. the biggest problem in such cases is the national nature of the legal systems of the states. often the courts of both states concerned consider the matter to be within their jurisdiction and award custody to the parent of their own nationality. the convention aims to resolve such situations at international level by stipulating that the law of the state of the child's residence is applicable and that the case falls within the jurisdiction of the court of that state. the convention also establishes a system to ensure the immediate return of children who have been illegally removed. i therefore consider it of the utmost importance that all states which have not yet done so should accede to the convention.
in writing. the accession of albania to the hague convention is a necessary step to ensure that the member states party to the convention can take the broadest possible action against the smuggling of children abroad. i support this proposal because the protection of children is of paramount importance in all circumstances and all possible legal means must be used.
in writing. international law, including eu law, is based on ensuring that the most vulnerable members of society, children, are protected in the most effective way under all circumstances. one of the instruments is the hague convention of 25 october 1980 on the civil aspects of illegal removal of children, which has been ratified by all eu member states. the convention establishes a system of international cooperation among the contracting states to resolve cases involving the illegal removal of children. in most cases, the source of the problem is the divorce of parents of different nationalities who try to obtain custody of the children by exploiting the lack of international cooperation. the biggest problem in these cases is the different legal frameworks in different states. the convention is intended to provide a remedy, a solution, to such cases. it is therefore essential that as many states as possible accede to this convention.
in writing. the hague convention on the civil aspects of illegal removal of children is a very important legal instrument. all the member states of the european union are part of it. the convention provides a system of cooperation for contracting states to find solutions to cases of illegal removal of children. these problems are most common in parents going through a divorce. the spouse from the other state can take advantage of the lack of cooperation between the states in order to obtain child custody. the biggest problem in such cases is the national nature of the legal systems of the states. often the courts of both states concerned consider the matter to be within their jurisdiction and award custody to the parent of their own nationality. the convention aims to resolve such situations at international level by stipulating that the law of the state of the child's residence is applicable and that the case falls within the jurisdiction of the court of that state. the convention also establishes a system to ensure the immediate return of children who have been illegally removed. i therefore consider it of the utmost importance that all states which have not yet done so should accede to the convention.
in writing. singapore's accession to the hague convention is a necessary step to ensure that the member states party to the convention can take the broadest possible action against the smuggling of children abroad. i support this proposal because the protection of children is of paramount importance in all circumstances and all possible legal means must be used.
in writing. international law, including eu law, is based on ensuring that the most vulnerable members of society, children, are protected in the most effective way under all circumstances. one of the instruments is the hague convention of 25 october 1980 on the civil aspects of illegal removal of children, which has been ratified by all eu member states. the convention establishes a system of international cooperation among the contracting states to resolve cases involving the illegal removal of children. in most cases, the source of the problem is the divorce of parents of different nationalities who try to obtain custody of the children by exploiting the lack of international cooperation. the biggest problem in these cases is the different legal frameworks in different states. the convention is intended to provide a remedy, a solution, to such cases. it is therefore essential that as many states as possible accede to this convention.
in writing. the hague convention on the civil aspects of illegal removal of children is a very important legal instrument. all the member states of the european union are part of it. the convention provides a system of cooperation for contracting states to find solutions to cases of illegal removal of children. these problems are most common in parents going through a divorce. the spouse from the other state can take advantage of the lack of cooperation between the states in order to obtain child custody. the biggest problem in such cases is the national nature of the legal systems of the states. often the courts of both states concerned consider the matter to be within their jurisdiction and award custody to the parent of their own nationality. the convention aims to resolve such situations at international level by stipulating that the law of the state of the child's residence is applicable and that the case falls within the jurisdiction of the court of that state. the convention also establishes a system to ensure the immediate return of children who have been illegally removed. i therefore consider it of the utmost importance that all states which have not yet done so should accede to the convention.
in writing. the accession of morocco to the hague convention is a necessary step to ensure that the member states party to the convention can take the broadest possible action against the smuggling of children abroad. i support this proposal because the protection of children is of paramount importance in all circumstances and all possible legal means must be used.
in writing. international law, including eu law, is based on ensuring that the most vulnerable members of society, children, are protected in the most effective way under all circumstances. one of the instruments is the hague convention of 25 october 1980 on the civil aspects of illegal removal of children, which has been ratified by all eu member states. the convention establishes a system of international cooperation among the contracting states to resolve cases involving the illegal removal of children. in most cases, the source of the problem is the divorce of parents of different nationalities who try to obtain custody of the children by exploiting the lack of international cooperation. the biggest problem in these cases is the different legal frameworks in different states. the convention is intended to provide a remedy, a solution, to such cases. it is therefore essential that as many states as possible accede to this convention.
in writing. the hague convention on the civil aspects of illegal removal of children is a very important legal instrument. all the member states of the european union are part of it. the convention provides a system of cooperation for contracting states to find solutions to cases of illegal removal of children. these problems are most common in parents going through a divorce. the spouse from the other state can take advantage of the lack of cooperation between the states in order to obtain child custody. the biggest problem in such cases is the national nature of the legal systems of the states. often the courts of both states concerned consider the matter to be within their jurisdiction and award custody to the parent of their own nationality. the convention aims to resolve such situations at international level by stipulating that the law of the state of the child's residence is applicable and that the case falls within the jurisdiction of the court of that state. the convention also establishes a system to ensure the immediate return of children who have been illegally removed. i therefore consider it of the utmost importance that all states which have not yet done so should accede to the convention.
in writing. the accession of armenia to the hague convention is a necessary step to ensure that the member states party to the convention can take action against the smuggling of children as widely as possible. i support this proposal because the protection of children is of paramount importance in all circumstances and all possible legal means must be used.
in writing. in today's world, the security challenges faced by member states' authorities require closer cooperation between the internal affairs bodies. there are certainly more important and serious security policy issues where it would be important to rethink and make cooperation more effective. but i believe that this debate today, and the subject we are discussing today, the exchange of information on traffic safety offences, is a small step in the right direction, which will facilitate and help the work of the member states' authorities, and increase their efficiency. this house has supported this legislation before, and we must do so again. the aim, of course, is not to punish citizens but to act as one against criminals. we want to confirm that the rules apply to all citizens of the union. this is a positive example of eu legislative activity that we should definitely support. that is why i voted for this report.
in writing. this dossier covers one of the most important pieces of legislation in the history of the european union, which is not very important in itself, but is for european citizens. the lack of cooperation between the police and the traffic police across borders was a longstanding problem, which meant that the traffic police from another member state were less sensitive to the traffic regulations of that member state, since they had every right to expect to avoid any subsequent penalties. the legislation we have just voted on will change this for good, and i am sure that life will prove the conviction we have followed as legislators: from now on, everyone is truly equal: they have the same rights and obligations, come from any eu member state, and they must also respect the traffic rules that have been adopted in their interest.
in writing. it is very important that the new proposal of the european commission fills the legal gap that has been created in the member states. the legislation will help the eu to achieve a 50% reduction in the number of road fatalities. in addition, it is very important that the opinion of the edps is the same as that of the legal services of the three institutions with regard to technical amendments. the report was therefore accepted.
in writing. 30% of the world's oceans are overfished, and the survival of marine fish stocks is at risk. i support the proposal for a protocol to the sustainable fisheries agreement between the european union and senegal, which seeks to place the west african tuna fisheries within a more sustainable framework than the one currently in place. the justified measures taken to maintain marine fish stocks have led to a continuous and significant decline in the amount of marine fish caught. the cfp should therefore pay much more attention to sustainable fisheries, i.e. aquaculture, and in particular freshwater fisheries. a significant part of the hungarian wetlands is located in natura 2000 areas. these fish farms do not pose any threat to the natural values of these areas, unlike marine aquaculture areas. in fact, in many cases it is our closed systems of wetlands that have created and preserved unique associations of aquatic habitats. therefore, freshwater aquaculture should be freed from unnecessarily stringent and unnecessary sustainability requirements. these are justified only for marine fisheries and aquaculture. in future, efforts should be made to clearly differentiate between the concept and regulation of marine and freshwater aquaculture.
in writing. - one of the world's most democratic countries has revealed some very ugly things. secret prisons, torture and all that. the compromise proposal is a correct and firm response to the us and its european partners in crime in the case of the illegal cia prisons, and even calls for a strategic strengthening of the protection of fundamental rights and an action plan. libe would order a new investigation, and urge a full investigation, prosecution and publicity. well, that's certainly something to support. and i want to thank mr. snowden and everyone who's helped bring the truth to light.
in writing. we need a common response, a coherent response to terrorism. they must not be allowed to incite hatred, fear, division in our societies. this includes action against radicalisation. the increasing use of the internet to incite hatred and violence is a cause for concern and action is needed partnerships between the largest internet service providers are essential in this regard. addressing the causes of youth radicalisation is a major challenge. the newly adopted decision sets out the main priorities: tackling the problem of so-called foreign fighters, combating radicalisation, and strengthening cooperation and information exchange between the competent member state and international authorities. i also believe that security at the external borders should be strengthened, while respecting the maintenance of smooth border traffic. these measures must not jeopardise one of the most important of the union's acquis, freedom of movement, the functioning of the schengen system. the events in paris also confirmed the urgent need for europe to have police training that can respond quickly to these challenges, and for cepol to be able to provide this.
in writing. - the resolution, tabled by the epp group, was supported by all political forces in the ep. the epp group has managed to unblock the stalemate in the european parliament on the setting-up of an eu airline passenger name record (pnr) system and now we have the political commitment to finalise the pnr directive by the end of this year. the resolution calls for more specialised measures in tackling the problem of eu citizens travelling to fight for terrorist organisations abroad. it strongly encourages the better exchange of information between member states’ country law enforcement authorities and eu agencies, something which is currently severely lacking. it calls on member states to invest in schemes which address the root causes of radicalisation, including educational programmes, promoting integration as well as rehabilitation programmes. it also asks that special attention is given to prisons and detention conditions, with targeted measures to address radicalisation in this environment.
in writing. - following the us measures introduced after 9/11, the resolution proposes to extend european law enforcement and data controls in general, taking advantage of public sentiment following the paris attacks. fortunately, both places had perpetrators, and therefore an unwarranted attempt by individuals to create paranoid fear and to get as many counter-terrorism measures as possible - such as the eu passenger name record (pnr) measure - through as quickly as possible, without assessing legal necessity or existing counter-terrorism measures. the resolution calls for the immediate release of all political prisoners and for the immediate release of all political prisoners.
in writing. the motion for a resolution sends an important message to the hungarian governing parties: it makes no mention of the link between immigration and terrorism. while europe is taking counter-terrorism measures, the hungarian government parties are shouting wolf and want to bar the doors of hungary to immigrants. viktor orbán and the current government's statements lack any basis in reality, they only want to scare the hungarian voters, who are turning away from fidesz more and more. we believe in a diverse, free, democratic europe, where we recognise that we are very diverse and that europe's strength comes from this diversity, this diversity.
in writing. i voted in favour of the motion for a joint resolution because i believe that its balanced text can trigger real processes to increase the effectiveness of the fight against terrorism. in addition to strengthening european cohesion through the sharing of best practices, the importance of the role of education in the long-term management of the situation will be emphasised. clearly, europe has been shocked by the brutal attacks carried out by terrorists. the response must be firm and effective, but this must not limit the full respect of fundamental rights. the report takes all this into account and, in addition to mapping the situation, makes concrete recommendations. this contribution should provide an important basis for further action by the union institutions and the member states.
in writing. - the internet governance forum (igf) is intended to implement the mandate of the world summit on the information society (wsis) and to provide a global, multi-stakeholder forum that allows governments, as well as the private and civil sectors, to discuss the most important issues affecting internet governance. the main priorities of the european union at the ninth igf in september 2014 were: expanded internet access worldwide; maintaining the internet as a global, open and shared resource; greater accountability and transparency in the multistakeholder model of internet governance; rejecting the state-controlled internet; and recognising that our fundamental freedoms and human rights are non-negotiable and must be protected online. the european parliament's motion for a joint resolution underlines the importance of the continued participation of the european union delegation in the forum and draws attention to the priorities mentioned above, and advocates an open and independent internet as a common global resource, non-discriminatory access to knowledge and protection of freedom of expression. i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution.
in writing. the internet governance forum (igf), established in 2006 under the auspices of the un, is a multi-stakeholder forum that has proven to be an indispensable factor in global governance issues over its first decade of existence. there is a particular need for such a global forum to share best practices when the current government in hungary would introduce an internet tax. it's also important to be aware of internet regulation methods, such as the u.s. internet taxation act, which specifically prohibits the imposition of a tax based on traffic. i therefore consider it of the utmost importance that we decide at the un general assembly in 2015 to extend the mandate of the igf.
in writing. the renewal of the mandate of the un body will expand the scope for the protection of democratic human rights on the world wide web.
in writing. i voted against a political resolution on the indication of the country of origin of meat ingredients in processed foods. this proposal would require the european commission to legislate for the mandatory indication of the country of origin or place of provenance of meat in processed foods. this request raises serious economic and internal market concerns. the commission's impact assessment shows that although 90% of consumers are interested in the country of origin of meat products, 80% of them would not support the indication of the country of origin of meat if this would result in an increase in the consumer price of food. the introduction of mandatory marking would increase the costs of meat processors significantly, by 30%. the processors would pass on all the additional costs (according to the commission, 90% of these costs) to the consumers, and the impact study therefore expects a consumer price increase of 69%. therefore, the country of origin mark should not be introduced on meat products. the majority of these products are typically purchased by poorer people who would no longer be able to afford these products following a significant price increase. finally, i should like to point out that the food fraud known as the 'horse meat scandal' last year could not be prevented, despite the fact that the indication of origin has been mandatory for beef since the crisis caused by bse in 2000. i therefore ask the commission, regardless of the ep's position, to refrain from introducing a mandatory indication of the country of origin or place of provenance.
in writing. - the natural need of consumers to have the exact origin of meat and meat products indicated on the label is finally being met. the eu/non eu type of designation of origin has been abandoned by consumers. between 30 and 50% of all meat slaughtered in the eu is consumed as processed products. the eu's traceability system in its current form was not suited to trace the origin of a food throughout the food chain. a country or regional designation of origin will help to prevent and detect misuse of foodstuffs for falsification. the resolution is therefore to be supported, but i still very much regret that it is not stated whether the animal has been fed gmo feed or not. unfortunately, there's no progress on this, and we're asking for more.
in writing. the shortcomings of the european food safety system were highlighted by the horse meat scandal in 2012. the horse meat scandal has called into question the traceability and transparency of the european food chain. therefore, the decision to adopt this resolution believes that there is a need for traceability of meat used in processed foods at union level. this could prevent the deliberate misleading of consumers and the like from occurring in the case of food counterfeiting. if we label meat products by country of origin, we would force supermarkets with a large market share to use only meat products from a reliable source in their products.
in writing. i voted in favour of the proposal to indicate the country of origin of processed meat ingredients in foodstuffs in the interests of european small businesses, small producers and consumers. in order to ensure the success of the proposal, i drew the attention of the commission and the european parliament during the debate to the fact that the price-increasing effect is particularly likely to be felt by companies which have so far supplied raw materials from countries of dubious origin or without adequate quality assurance. in my view, consumers have the right to decide the origin of the products they consume, and it is a fact that conscious consumers prefer raw materials from the european union. the most important of all are consumer confidence and health, and the fight against food fraud and the safety it can guarantee. however, i believe that designation of origin for processed meat products also helps eu producers and eu agriculture. i hope that this proposal will enable us to effectively address the challenges in the above areas.
in writing. in the context of the report on the acp-eu joint interparliamentary assembly, i would like to stress that the economic partnership agreement with acp countries should serve development objectives such as poverty eradication, the right to food or access to basic public services, with particular regard to vulnerable groups such as women, children or national minorities.
mr. president, i have to ask you... ronald reagan once called soviet communism the evil empire. history has proven that only united forces can defeat an atheist dictatorship. in one of his last speeches, tom lantos listed the three totalitarian regimes of the 20th and 21st centuries, and declared war on nazism, a sort of communist-like islamic fundamentalism. the only way to counter the global threat of dictatorships is to have a global unity. christian europe must take the lead in this international struggle, in solidarity with the christians of iraq and syria, and with all those who are persecuted, who are suffering from the humanitarian catastrophe. god's word also urges us to: "open your mouth in behalf of the dumb, and in the cause of those who are perishing". other
in writing. last week i spent five days in iraq with aid to the church in need, an international aid organization. we visited half a dozen refugee camps on the ground, where we met many families who had been displaced from their homes. we know that the situation caused by isis is extremely complex. yet it is very clear what we europeans have to do. the international community must do everything possible to enable refugees to return to their homelands as soon as possible. and i know from my experience on the ground that this is going to take a tremendous, collective effort. i personally hope that mrs mogherini will do her utmost to ensure that the union and its member states play a greater role in humanitarian matters. we must also recognize that without a military solution, there can be no peace in northern iraq. if europe and international organisations cannot succeed in providing aid, then we will face a very serious, even irreversible, humanitarian catastrophe in the region. i hope that we will have the strength to do this together with the local communities, whether muslim, christian or yazidi. we must preserve a 2,000-year-old christian culture in the middle east, which is now in danger of being completely eradicated.
it's a two-card draw. thank you very much for the opportunity, mr. buda. i was very pleased with your speech, i can really relate to every word of it, because it is very much in line, and i think it is completely in line with everything mr timmermans said. but i respectfully ask you that this is what you say in your own group of the people's party to fidesz, which runs a government in hungary whose leader is insisting on illiberal democracy. which has been proven to have forced hundreds of judges into political retirement and which has been proven to appoint and keep in office officials with shady backgrounds.
it's a two-card draw. - mr. deputy, i have to go. i'm not surprised by what you said, because you sent a circular letter to the members of the european parliament a few days ago, in which you supported the slovak referendum on same-sex marriage, which was elitist and discriminatory. i have to ask you, mr. member, if you think that a discriminatory procedure against a minority can be brought into line with european fundamental rights. it is precisely these fundamental rights that must be protected for minorities. i would like to ask you why you think these opinions are in line with the fundamental rights of the european union.
madam president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. my fellow members of parliament! the european debate on fundamental rights and the rule of law in recent times, i have to say, has been a failure. the european union has not been able to act effectively in relation to the infringements that have occurred in hungary and in other member states. there are several reasons for this, and we have talked a lot here about the necessary procedures and institutions that are needed to properly sanction such violations. i would also like to draw attention to another point: unless there are mechanisms to give early warning, to ring the alarm bells of the european institutions when there is a problem in individual member states, and these are independent of political decision-making, there is no hope of an effective response from the european institutions. there has been a lot of criticism of the procedure in hungary, that political decision-making is taking place here, but of course as long as the flagging of the violation is only possible through political means and there is no institutionalized form of how to press the emergency bell, these debates will remain political. thank you, thank you.
madam president, mr. vice president, i have a very special guest. the european parliament can rightly be proud of its standing for human rights everywhere in the world. and this is very important, because human rights, fundamental rights, are the essence of the european union, the foundation. many have asked, and i will ask: do we have the right to expect countries that want to join the union to respect our fundamental values? but what about those eu countries that are already members of the union and yet do not respect fundamental rights? you, mr. vice president, said a few minutes ago that there is no illiberal democracy. you and i both know very well that the hungarian government is building and promoting illiberal democracy. and i understand that both parliament and the commission are tired of hungarian affairs. but i have to ask, what will become of the european union if neither the commission nor parliament is willing to stand up for its fundamental values? what do we say to those citizens who suffer from the violations of the law, the lack of legal certainty? in fact, there are democratic forces in this parliament which, for party or factional reasons, are protecting illiberal democracy, the non-democrats. what do we tell the voters in these cases? i think we cannot turn our backs on their interests, we cannot cowardly back down, but we must stand up for these values under all circumstances. i believe that europe, the european union, has no future except in the pursuit of its values. i think our job is to develop effective mechanisms that can prevent these cases. we need to monitor fundamental rights everywhere in europe. we need to take decisive and courageous action when the situation calls for it. we cannot hide behind our own cowardice, because that is the end of this european union.
madam president, please. judgment belongs to the courts, based on the rule of law, not political forums. any rule of law mechanism can only work properly, effectively, if it analyzes real problems and is not based on artificially created facts and objective investigations, not on press reports or frustrated political statements. often, facts speak louder than unfounded and untrue claims, no matter how many times they are repeated. it is not hungary that is threatening european values today, it is not the hungarian government that the hungarian citizens need to be protected from today, and this is something that hungarian citizens understand very well at home. we must concentrate on real problems, and i ask you, commissioner, to monitor each member state in an equal way, to measure it objectively, on an equal footing, and to concentrate on real problems. protect those who may not belong to the mainstream today, the traditional national minorities, who are equal citizens of europe.
smuggling of human beings and illegal immigration are among the most important problems facing the european union, and a clear and unambiguous response and a clear set of tasks to be undertaken now is needed. unfortunately, the recent terrorist events and the threat of terrorism that exists today has put a new dimension on this situation. i have to think that we can also provide clearer and more decisive responses than ever before to illegal immigration and the economic aspects of human trafficking that preceded it. it's not just the death ships, but every event that happens in the mediterranean is a terrible tragedy. it is also about some countries becoming transit countries. hungary is one of those places. it's at a crossroads, a migration route, where what just happened is that the number of illegal immigrants has multiplied. since 2012, that number has increased 20 times, and now it's reached half of last year's level in the first two months. we have taken a number of measures, established refugee camps, technical transfers, reinforced border guards, reinforced police, training, information system. but that alone is not enough to solve the problem. the most serious thing is that 40 percent of the refugees are children, who are the most vulnerable and the most vulnerable. so far, the poorest have come from syria, afghanistan and kosovo. but now, no, now people with a high school diploma, college degrees, they're coming. we must have common answers, we must have a firm stand. that's what i expect from today's debate and the committee. (the intervener agrees to answer a question for a blue card under article 162 (8) of the rules of procedure)
that's a two-card answer. the illegal refugees, the immigrants come from serbia. they're not coming from croatia, they're coming from serbia. that is why i think it is important to strengthen and complement frontex. and this is not just the task of one member state, it is our common task and our common responsibility. i therefore think that we must work with the commission to develop a definite timetable, a work programme, a task plan to make us more efficient, so that we do not talk about death boats, not about the increase in the number of illegal refugees, but about solving a problem.
we now continue the debate on the council and commission statements on the next steps for frontex and the european asylum support office (2015/2527 ((rsp))
thank you very much. officer timmermans, please don't hang up, because i'd like to speak to you again. i'm going to run over there again because in our discussion this morning, you refused to answer my question. you spoke so beautifully about the importance of the rule of law, that is, the importance of consistent adherence to the law in the previous debate. now, let's take a practical example: the current legislation allows entry into the european union only if you have the proper travel documents, you enter at a designated border crossing point, you prove your identity, and i could go on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and and on and on and and in comparison, approximately 1 500 illegal border crossers do not meet these conditions at the hungarian-serbian border every day. my dear officer. please inform me how you consider this to be compatible with the rule of law and what you or the european union might wish to do to remedy this situation.
in writing. – europe’s borders have to become more secure by increasing financial, human and technical resources and strengthening frontex. countries along europe’s external borders in particular face specific challenges on migration issues. the statistics show that whereas the older eu member states have been dealing with the issue for a long time, the newer ones like hungary have just begun to confront it. in 2014 the number of persons requesting refugee status in hungary was nearly 20 times higher than in 2012. our aim should be to find solutions for the member states particularly concerned and effective measures against asylum abuse to put an end to organised crime and human trafficking in order to prevent tragedies along europe’s external borders. there is a difference between those who cross the border illegally because they are fleeing persecution, armed conflict or other hardships and those who enter the eu in search of better living standards. political asylum-seekers merit protection, and we have to meet our humanitarian responsibility towards them. however, we have to distinguish refugees from illegal economic migrants. we need a frank debate on the issue, as illegal immigration poses a problem today.
in writing. in the wake of the paris attacks, several member state governments but perhaps most extreme the hungarian government found the source of the problems in eu-level immigration regulation. prime minister viktor orbán and several key figures in his party have repeatedly described eu rules as lax, unreasonable and evasive, and orbán has therefore stressed that we should not wait for eu decisions, but rather "do what we can ourselves". we do not want to be a destination country for immigrants for the sake of survival" he said, aware that statistics show that hungary is not a destination for immigration. in hungary, the problem is not immigration, but rather emigration. in order to prevent the irresponsible actions of the hungarian government, it would be advisable to think about how the issue of immigration could be handled in a reassuring way at the eu level. the german social democrats have initiated the introduction of a flexible points system, which would provide an annual overview of the shortage of occupations in the union. according to the needs of the member countries, more points would be given to immigrants who have a profession or a qualification in which there is a shortage of labour. we must not forget that the ageing of the union's population will reduce the number of workers by 6-7 million over the next decade, which can only be replaced by regulated immigration within appropriate limits. in addition to the legal regulation of immigration, it would be worthwhile to consider what tools and methods could be used to help the integration of immigrants already in the union into society.
in writing. in the context of the european council and european commission declaration on access to medicines, i consider it important to stress that everyone has the right to access safe medicines. i believe that this is already a very big problem in many eu member states, and i would like to draw the attention of the commission and the council to this. three factors must be considered in relation to access to medicines: affordability, accessibility and, finally, innovation. healthcare expenditure is mostly covered by public funding, supplemented by private funding. public expenditure on medicines in the eu increased by an average of 76% between 2000 and 2009, but has now decreased considerably due to austerity measures to deal with the economic crisis. the necessary level of these expenses is, of course, worth examining. access varies from one member state to another, but there is evidence of increasing numbers of medicines being excluded from public support, excluding groups from coverage or experiencing shortages. in hungary, these problems are also manifested in the elderly begging on the streets with prescriptions in their hands to get their needed medicines. and so in closing, i want to say that i think the current model of innovation in the pharmaceutical industry is not sustainable. pharmaceutical companies in the eu spend 23% of their turnover on marketing and only 17% on research and development. i suggest that the european commission should take these points into account.
it's a two-card draw. the mep mentioned that many member state governments are hesitant, slow or even inaction in implementing the relevant directives. he also mentioned that cooperation with third countries also faces certain difficulties. we speak with one voice in this room, but what do you think is the reason why governments are reluctant? i was thinking of member governments first.
in writing. the newly established special committee of the ep will be responsible for identifying and proposing specific tax avoidance practices. these methods are mainly used by multinational companies to circumvent the tax rules of the member states. last autumn, the "luxleaks" case drew attention to the fact that many large companies had evaded their tax obligations or paid unrealistically low taxes through various tax tricks. the fidesz-kdnp group aims to ensure that multinational companies share in the public burden in a fair and proportionate way, in the same way as small and medium-sized enterprises and individuals.
in writing. luxembourg's tax practices cast a heavy shadow over the newly established european commission. in order to restore credibility and public confidence, it is therefore in our fundamental interest that the european parliament should conduct a swift and effective investigation into the matter. the guarantee of this is a special committee that is now in place. in the end, we need a european taxation system that makes tax avoidance and the growing corruption in government impossible. the european anti-avoidance regime would be particularly important for member states such as hungary, where the tax authorities are clearly a hotbed of government corruption.
in writing. the situation caused by the islamic state is very serious. it is clear that we europeans and the international community must do everything we can to ensure that refugees can return to their homelands as soon as possible. this requires a tremendous collective effort. we must also recognize that without a military solution, there can be no peace in northern iraq. if europe and international organisations cannot succeed in providing aid, then we will face a very serious, even irreversible, humanitarian catastrophe in the region. i hope that we will have the strength to do this together with the local communities, whether muslim, christian or yazidi. we must preserve a 2,000-year-old christian culture in the middle east, which is now in danger of being completely eradicated.
a common eu energy policy is needed to ensure that member states can fulfil their essential task of maintaining the competitiveness of their economies and affordable prices for their citizens, and all this safely. of course, it's good to connect the grids, but if you don't have what it can deliver, if you don't have enough energy, what good is it? it should be noted that, in some cases, a member state such as hungary sees the solution in the preservation, or even the partial expansion, of nuclear energy. if this is the case because the energy mix is its own competence then it must also be accepted that a country, hungary, is negotiating with a third country where appropriate with russia on this task. mr šefčovič would find it appropriate to include the union in the negotiations. we judge that the european union is not currently a single country with an energy policy dictated by a single government. the common energy policy of the union should be implemented in such a way as to coordinate the national interests of each member state. and that sovereignty is still needed!
my dear officer! listening to the well-known goals that have been announced, we might even be skeptical, because we have discussed these goals a lot, but there is still a lot to do. i would suggest, however, that we take an optimistic approach. i am confident that the innovative tool chosen by the commission, the framework strategy, can be a tool to break down barriers and achieve our main objective of increasing competitiveness by ensuring a well-functioning energy market that produces affordable prices. if this is successful, the energy union can give a new impetus to the whole european idea. but there are no miracles, and we have to struggle with the details behind the big goals. now, in the shortness of time, i'd like to address just one of these problems. a well-functioning energy market requires infrastructure and competing sources. unfortunately, this is not yet a market condition in all member states. in the countries of central and eastern europe, there is still a lack of alternative supply routes, of north-south links. in many cases, there is no possibility of two-way flows and no competing sources at least in the natural gas market. the development of network regulations is welcome, but it is useless to have adequate regulation if there is nothing to regulate. this is a significant difference between the eastern and western european markets. and these different conditions will have to be taken into account in the commission's documents for a long time to come.
my dear fellow officers! the conflict in ukraine has once again demonstrated the well-known and worrying exposure of the european union, and in particular the eu member states in central and eastern europe, to russian energy dependence. it is also worrying that some member state governments, instead of working to reduce their energy dependence on russia, are instead concluding very long-term contracts with the russian government, mainly for the supply of gas or for nuclear energy development. we must make it clear that this is a violation of european solidarity, which is harmful to everyone. we therefore need a common energy market where eu member states act together, even buy together and thereby improve their bargaining position. and that is why we must support all the proposals, such as the one you have put forward for the european energy semester, which can guarantee that the european union will not be disrupted by the various policies of the member states and that we will not be able to implement the programme we have planned. the creation of the energy union is a very important milestone in the history of the european union, and we therefore ask the commission, and the commissioner, not to allow delays or individual member states' policies to prevent the achievement of the energy union.
in writing. the commission has today issued a communication on the implementation of the energy union and the eu's plan to tackle global climate change. i agree with the need to encourage the widest possible interconnection of european energy networks (especially gas and electricity lines). many member states are heavily energy dependent on certain third countries, which significantly limits their freedom of movement in energy procurement. the independence of a country depends to a large extent on the development of its energy dependency, and therefore diversification of energy procurement should be a fundamental interest of all eu member states. the key is to be able to provide significant eu support for the interconnection of energy networks. the commission's decision to transfer a larger amount to finance the so-called juncker investment package from the budget of the european network and telecommunications facility, which is the same instrument used to finance the above objective, is not a good sign. on the other hand, i welcome the fact that the communication identifies as a priority the improvement of energy efficiency and the strong promotion of the transition to renewable energy production. however, the commission should refrain from any action that would impede the use of renewable energy. for example, we should not restrict the planting of useful varieties of trees that provide biomass feedstock, the production of first-generation bioethanol from surplus crops or the promotion of combustible biomass plants. finally, i do not agree with the significant inclusion of agriculture in the greenhouse gas reduction target. agriculture accounts for only 10% of emissions, but a significant reduction in emissions - particularly for ammonia and methane - would lead to a collapse of european livestock production and a decline in crop production.
in writing. the energy union is one of the eu's most important current programmes: it combines strengthening integration, solidarity, competitiveness and sustainability, and the will to self-determination. we therefore regret that hungary, as a member state with a high level of concern, is not the flag-bearer of energy cooperation but rather the one who is putting it on the backburner. the energy union aims to reduce europe's external energy dependence, increase energy security and reduce vulnerability to russia. let's see how the hungarian government's actions fit in with these intentions. the government has secret contracts with russia to build a nuclear power plant with russian technology, built on russian credit, relying on russia for both fuel and waste management. orbán agreed with putin to extend the long-term gas contract, while still respecting the decision of the european council in march last year that the leaders of the member states do not organize bilateral meetings with the russian leadership. in recent years, it has leased part of its gas storage capacities to gazprom, which it has bought back at high prices. the government thus voluntarily renounced its independence from gazprom's current pricing and supply policy. bypassing the commission, viktor orbán consulted with putin and the turkish prime minister on the route of the russian gas pipeline that will trigger the south stream. the hungarian government's actions are not in the energy union but in the preservation of vulnerability. if the union has no means to enforce the implementation of the joint decisions, then the energy union will remain a dream because of the collaborators with putin.
in writing. in my view, the creation of an energy union is an essential and fundamental interest of the european union. i agree that when we create it, we have to consider not only economic but also environmental, trust and social aspects. commissioner sefcovic, representing the european commission, outlined a plan for an integrated energy market, in which solidarity, among other things, will play a major role. this could also ensure in the long term that member states can rely on each other when necessary. i have to say that this, and the coordination of the 28 energy markets, is an ambitious plan; in my view, this process will unfortunately be hampered by certain national aspirations. at present, the individual member states are already chaosically linking open or back-end shelves, which may not point in the same direction. the resolution of these and similar conflicts will require close cooperation between the various institutions. i agree that energy efficiency, new and renewable energy sources and research and development should be given priority, which can not only create energy security but also jobs. i believe that in the long run, we must rely on these resources to ultimately create total energy independence. i would encourage the commission to formulate the principles for implementing the strategy through transparent processes, in which the european parliament must of course play an active role.
in writing. the european union and commissioner maros sefcovic are currently working to integrate the energy markets of the member states. the aim is to ensure that no single energy supplier has a monopoly position in the eu common market, to reduce the dependence of eu countries on russian energy carriers and to prevent any third party from obtaining an unfair competitive advantage in negotiations with any eu member state. in contrast, i find that, contrary to the commission's ambition, hungarian prime minister viktor orbán and russian president vladimir putin are working on a long-term gas agreement, but neither the hungarian nor the european public knows any substantive details about the details of the paks enlargement. the hungarian prime minister is about to tie hungary, a member of the european union, to russia for decades. we know that before the last meeting between putin and orbán, the commission was not consulted in any way on energy policy issues. commissioner sefcovic, president juncker and the european community must act on this! thank you for your attention.
mr president, as i wrote to you, you have no right to unilaterally change the agenda that was accepted by parliament at the beginning of the session, and on this agenda there is a catch-the-eye procedure after this debate.
in writing. the hungarian prime minister is indeed a threat to european solidarity. during his visit to budapest, the russian president did not condemn russian aggression against ukraine, but sold the unity of the eu to putin for the promise of a few cubic meters of natural gas. the ep's representatives of the dk, on behalf of viktor orbán, apologise to the ukrainian people who have been victims of russian aggression. by hosting the russian president, orbán tacitly accepted the forcible annexation of the crimean peninsula, undermined the credibility of eu sanctions against russia, and plunged hungary into total international isolation. the complete bankruptcy of the hungarian government is shown by the fact that the so-called "three of slavkov" regional cooperation was recently formed with the deliberate omission of hungary. austria, the czech republic and slovakia are preparing to solve the ukrainian crisis and the energy supply problems of the east-central european region by leaving out the hungarians. the current hungarian government has alienated our former friends in the region, and orbán has been at the bottom of the european rankings. orbán couldn't even explain to the polish prime minister why he was hugging putin. in warsaw, the hungarian prime minister was not even received by his biggest ally, jarosław kaczyński, the chairman of the law and justice party. the hungarian electorate is already seeing the hungarian government's dead end policy. they know that our national sovereignty is not threatened by the european union, not by refugees branded by fidesz, but by the eastern arbitrariness of putin's russia. hungarian voters sent a clear message to the government on sunday. the two-thirds government of fidesz has collapsed in despair!
in writing. the european council of 12 february provided forward-looking responses to the challenges facing europe today. european citizens rightly expect the union to do more for our common security. at the same time, we must avoid panicking and reacting rashly to security challenges. we cannot allow the xenophobic, domestically-solidarity-questioning policies of extremist political parties to shape our thinking. we must not forget that in paris, in belgium or in copenhagen, it was not some outside, alien force that attacked european citizens and values, but our own citizens. this is our own domestic terrorism, which we must deal with primarily within europe. i therefore welcome the proposals concerning interreligious dialogue, the strengthening of tolerance, support for education and social integration, and rehabilitation in the field of justice. at the same time, proposals to strengthen external border controls, the collection and exchange of personal data and the reform of the schengen system should be treated with great caution. similarly, controlling the internet is a highly sensitive issue, one that is questionable in its effectiveness, while threatening the very freedoms that terrorists are attacking. new measures in these areas should be introduced only to the extent that they are effective from a security point of view and do not impose any restrictions on the rights of european citizens.
although i am a little surprised that the head of the relevant central bank is not present at the time of the european central bank's 2013 report, i would like to say a few words to the commission myself. in 2013, there were 21 cases where national governments failed to consult the european central bank while passing laws, laws of a financial nature. there are four countries that are doing this in a series, and the commission seems to have been very supportive of this. i would ask the honourable commission to do everything in its power to ensure that in future the member states which are notoriously inconsistent are held to account in an appropriate way.
in writing. i welcome the report of the economic and financial committee on the annual report 2013 of the european central bank. i would like to recall that the ecb is also bound by article 9 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union, which states that in defining and implementing its policies and activities, the union shall take into account the requirements relating to the promotion of a high level of employment, the provision of adequate social protection, the fight against social exclusion and a high level of education, training and protection of human health. other the union is far from meeting the employment targets of the eu 2020 strategy, the unemployment rate in the union is above 10% and there are significant differences between member states. in addition to the negative economic and social effects, high unemployment is also undermining citizens' trust in the union. given that smes provide a significant proportion of jobs in the union, their support is of particular importance for boosting employment. it is therefore essential to facilitate the borrowing conditions of smes, whose financing problems clearly hamper job creation.
in writing. the ecb's role will be further enhanced, as it will be given new tasks in a wide range of areas, and thus more attention will be paid to its activities. i therefore consider it important to work even more closely with parliament and our committee to ensure that genuine democratic control is achieved. i welcome the fact that, as in previous years, this year's report has insisted on the fact, clearly laid down in the treaties, that the central bank's sole and main role is to maintain the stability of the exchange rate - and thus of the single currency, the euro - and thus to put the ecb's policy in the right context. i also think it is important to recognise that without the ecb's long-term refinancing operations last year, europe would have had to expect much greater exchange rate volatility. consequently, a much larger money supply would probably have accumulated in the markets, often in the form of bad stocks, which could have led to inflationary growth and then to excessive exchange rate growth. however, i see the ecb also having to start executing these one-off money market operations immediately as soon as the stress in the banking sector eases and if economic indicators relating to inflation make this decision possible. with regard to the future and the emerging banking union, i agree that the introduction of a single currency should reflect the diversity of the national banking sector.
if the hungarian prime minister or the hungarian government is criticized by any european institutions, the pro-hungarian government meps always respond by saying that the hungarian government won a 2/3 parliamentary majority in democratic elections, by the will of the citizens. but that is not so! the osce election observers reported after the hungarian elections that the ruling party's two-thirds parliamentary majority was only possible due to restrictive campaign rules, media political bias and a completely unilaterally transformed hungarian electoral system. so this report has already passed a moral judgment on two-thirds of them. however, less than a year after the parliamentary elections, hungarian voters have already made a judgment in a practical sense, as last sunday voters in the city of veszprém and its surroundings elected a candidate supported by the opposition, and thus ended the two-thirds majority of the ruling party in the hungarian parliament. this is our chance to finally try to put hungary back on the european path instead of the hungarian prime minister's dreams of an illiberal state.
mr. president, i have to ask you... my fellow members of parliament! another horrific example of isis's aggression is the murder of 21 christians in libya. we must see that jihadist terror has appeared in the european sphere of interest, including the mediterranean, and that european citizens are now faced almost daily with the fact that this is now a direct internal challenge to them. i recently spent five days with aid agencies working in iraq, visiting refugee camps. i would like to emphasise, on the basis of my own experience, our european responsibility. europe has been at peace for decades and we have watched peacefully as an ancient christian culture of two thousand years disappears in our neighbourhood. we must speak out boldly, defend the persecuted - be they christians or other minorities! i have said many times in the european parliament that the union must take the lead in the middle east in terms of humanitarian aid. yes, we must be able to use our economic, financial and commercial resources to ensure the future of the persecuted, primarily in their own country. to refuse to take the hand that is being extended, to remain passive, is not only contrary to the values of europe, but is simply inhuman. i want to be proud. allow me to be proud of europe's helping hand.
on the day of remembrance for the victims of communism, i would like to draw your attention to transylvania, romania, whose hungarian population was forcibly assimilated by the infamous national communist ceausescu dictatorship. the same fate would have befallen the transylvanian szeklerland. we have since overthrown the dictatorship, but the romanian majority continues to pursue ceausescu's policy and, under the pretext of european regional reorganisation, wants to split the single szekler region with a hungarian majority. i object to the reorganization of the szeklerland! i protest that the romanian authorities in marosvásárhely have banned the protest event of the szekler national council on march 10, thus grossly violating the human and minority rights of transylvanian hungarians, as well as the constitutionally guaranteed freedom of assembly and speech! i ask the european parliament to intervene in the defence of szeklerland and in the defence of its autonomy.
it's a two-card draw. thank you very much, madam president. i was pleased with what the member of the people's party said a few moments ago. i am a very militant member of the s&d group, a supporter of women's equality. that is why i would like to ask you what you think of the fact that just a few days ago in hungary, your group, fidesz, and the far right in your group together voted in the hungarian parliament against ratifying the istanbul convention, the council of europe convention, which is shocking to me, since it is a convention against violence against women. thank you very much.
in writing. according to a 2014 report by the fundamental rights agency, one third of women in the eu suffer violence, and it is estimated that in hungary, between 3 and 400 thousand women and their children live in the hell of domestic violence. my speech is sadly timely because of the decision of the hungarian parliament last tuesday, according to which the fidesz/jobbik coalition rejected the motion for a resolution tabled by mp szelényi zsuzsanna, urging the ratification of the istanbul convention. although my country signed the convention in early 2014, its ratification, i.e. its actual implementation, was not urgent for the right wing! the reason for the abortion was the irritating, blunt arguments of a better-off member of parliament that the convention was wrong in not providing for abortion, which she considered to be a form of domestic violence. and fidesz is a party of the blind commanders. i sincerely hope that my colleague, mr pelczné gáll ildikó, as a substitute member of the committee on women's rights and equal opportunities, will be able to present and accept more successfully with his fellow party members in the future the european values that do not include the rejection of the convention and the neglect of the issue of violence against women. my colleagues! let us do everything we can to ensure that the istanbul convention is ratified by the member states as soon as possible, so that the new possibilities in the convention for combating violence against women can be put into practice.
in writing. the report makes it clear that we still have a long way to go in achieving gender equality. this parliament, the council or the commission do not have a magic wand to eliminate these problems in one fell swoop. but it is our duty to do what they can do as soon as possible. the european parliament is therefore right to urge the commission to encourage member states to ratify the istanbul convention and to adopt common policies based on it to combat violence against women and domestic violence; to urge the council to seriously consider the maternity leave directive and the proposal for measures to improve the gender balance in the management of listed companies; and to urge member states to extend eu rules protecting women to migrants. there are those in europe and in this parliament who imagine that in the name of some ideal family model they have imagined they have the right to tell women how they should live. what kind of family they'll have, what kind of careers they'll have when they have kids. and they're not even ashamed to refer to women's interests, or perhaps their respect for women. it's just verbal oppression and shameful hypocrisy. ensuring the freedom of each other, whether women or men, is the only way to create a democratic and just society.
on behalf of the s&d group. thank you very much for this opportunity, madam president. i would like to thank mr messerschmidt, the rapporteur on competition policy, and his shadow rapporteurs for the results of our joint work. we started from very distant points, but i think we have managed to reach a compromise point in almost every respect. on behalf of the s&d group, i would like to express my satisfaction, to name just a few examples, that the report in its present form has already emphasised the importance of services of general economic interest and the benefits they can bring to citizens. i would like to thank the imco commission in particular for its strong and very important contribution to strengthening the digital single market, as we believe that this is one of the most important tools for job creation and innovation in european growth. it is also to be thanked that the report, through amendments and compromises, has come much closer to reconciling competition requirements with social considerations. that is why i find it particularly sad that the group of the european people's party now wants to exclude the social aspects from the report. all of which today protect the social interests of workers and european citizens in general. this is completely unacceptable to us. however, we still have a problem with paragraph 85 of the report, which is not sufficiently developed and can be misinterpreted and misinterpreted. it suggests, among other things, the possibility and obligation of liberalising the rail transport sector. there's no way our faction can support that. we will fight this liberal initiative now and in the vote tomorrow. finally, let me stress once again that our group does not consider it fortunate that a particular company is mentioned in paragraph 45. thank you very much.
thank you very much for the floor, mr. president. i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. if we were to apply a fraction of our anti-smoking virtues to the fight against endocrine disruptors, i have to say that we would be in a different place. there have been reports of a splashing here for years. the fight against invisible poison, i think, is very important, and i'm very pleased with the very firm commitment of the inspector, and especially what he said: zero tolerance. we would like to see this in the commission's action as soon as possible. but not just in the commission's actions, but in the commission's negotiations. i would very much like to see europe not indulge in this area during the ttip negotiations. i would like to see the commission adopt a zero tolerance approach there as well. thank you so much for the opportunity.
in writing. the restrictions imposed by russia on imports of agricultural products last august have a clear negative impact not only on the union's agriculture, on producers, but also on transport companies. there is another sector that is also heavily affected and suffering losses: the logistics sector, because the decrease in freight traffic has also reduced the work of warehouses and loaders. these losses are mainly borne by small and medium-sized enterprises. the decline in imports, however, will result in cheaper domestic products in our stores in the short term. however, the sector also has to face the long-term negative consequences of this measure. it should also be borne in mind that the russian market is one of the most important markets, especially for the countries of the union that are located further east. the embargo gives non-eu member states a competitive advantage. the circumvention of the ban by transporting products through these countries leads to an increase in the black market and illegal activities (repackaging, relabelling). the market support measures provided by the commission, which have sought to compensate producers in part for the reduced profits, are welcome. at the same time, it is necessary to provide union support not only to producers but also to the transport and logistics sectors. that is why it is very important that we act as a united front and as quickly as possible, to avoid even greater losses for our businesses. at the same time, new markets for surplus production need to be found. this could be the biggest aid ever from the eu.
in writing. i fully agree with the concerns expressed in the oral question. indeed, it appears that the commission is not fully aware of the seriousness of the situation caused by the russian agricultural embargo. hungary was excluded from the third round of eu compensation to mitigate the damage to the fruit and vegetable market caused by the russian agricultural embargo at the end of last year, as were croatia, slovenia and romania. the quantity of advance requests received in hungary last september was more than 10,000 tonnes, an order of magnitude higher than the quantity allocated to the country in the second round. this was mitigated by the free allocation of 3000 tonnes in the second round, which hungary was only able to use partially due to the short time available. that framework is no longer available to my country, although it would be very justified. the crisis of overproduction caused by the russian embargo continues to cause serious damage to the hungarian, croatian, slovenian and romanian fruit and vegetable sectors. therefore, even if the direct export losses of the producers in these countries were small, compensation is fully justified. on the basis of the above, i call on the commission to provide farmers in hungary, croatia, slovenia and romania with additional compensation to reduce their losses caused by the crisis of overproduction. it may do so by extending the period of use of the framework provided for in the second round or by announcing a new framework of 3000 tonnes which can be freely used.
your honor, i'm not sure. i would also like to thank the rapporteur for his work and summarise my observations on the report on the size and weight of vehicles in the community in three points: the first and perhaps most important aspect that we had to consider in drafting the legislation was safety. i think we have succeeded in reaching a consensus on this issue and in moving it in the right direction. it is hoped that the expected positive effects will be seen after the start of the treatment. secondly, i would like to emphasize that we have succeeded in promoting intermodality and in providing the possibility of combining different modes of transport taking into account environmental conditions, economy and environmental considerations. but finally, i must add that it is a relief to many of us that the legislation has been developed in such a way that we have been able to protect our road network from megakamions. don't get me wrong, i can totally accept and even consider reasonable the use of megakamion in the scandinavian countries, for example. over the past years, decades, the infrastructure has been fully adapted to this form of freight transport and has also made a significant contribution to reducing environmental pollution and safety risks. however, it would have been wrong to extend these vehicles uniformly without taking into account the specificities of individual member states and the impact of megakamions. we can all agree that the densely populated areas of central and eastern europe, with their lack of motorway systems and their limited capacity road networks, are not suited to this type of traffic. thank you, thank you.
thank you very much. mr president, ladies and gentlemen of the house of representatives, my colleague from the s&d, mr leichtfried, has done an excellent job. this is a good example of the unanimous support of the transport committee. environmental protection, safer transportation, and i've personally coordinated with the professional organizations back home. their support is an important signal to us. i would like to draw attention to two things which we have only partially touched upon in the commission or in the current debate: one of the issues is road improvement. my colleague, mr andor, said that in many places in central and eastern europe the road network - and i am not necessarily talking about motorways, but secondary and tertiary roads - is no longer prepared to provide the quality of transport that is common in western europe. the second point i would like to make to the commissioner is that if we are going to introduce new rules on the design of driver's cabs or on other issues, we should tell our colleagues in the commission to prepare european industry for this. because it is an opportunity for european industry to move towards new standards in new industries - creating jobs, for example - and to strengthen european industry. i would like to see cooperation within the commission. thank you very much.
thank you very much, mr. president, for the floor. i am not one of those eurosceptics who want to tear our common europe apart, to split it up. i sit here among social democrats who believe in the unity of europe, but we don't want to bury our heads in the sand because we see the problems. that's why we want to change europe. and there is no stronger europe without long-term investment. did we realise that there are over 5.5 million young people out of work in europe? do you know what it means for a country like mine, where hundreds of thousands of my peers are going to western europe to find work because there is no predictable long-term work and security at home? so i ask you: do you believe that a united europe is more competitive in the global economy, that re-industrialisation is essential, otherwise we will fall behind, and do you believe that long-term investment is needed? i do, i believe it, because we need a strong economy to eliminate unemployment, to provide social security. i therefore ask, i propose, i beg you, that the money invested should be used mainly in europe, that it should be real investment and not speculative investment, and that the region of central and eastern europe should be given special consideration, because we cannot divide europe once again into rich and poor. let's plant this fruit tree together so it can bear fruit. thank you very much. (the opponent has consented to answer a question marked with a blue card under article 162 (8) of the rules of procedure. )
that's a two-card answer. my croatian colleague asked a perfect question. i thank him very much, because you and i know, and many in this house know, that tourism requires long-term investment, but it can help small and medium-sized enterprises in a lasting way and provide stable jobs for many millions of people in the service sector. moreover, europe will fall behind in global tourism competition if it does not invest in the long term. that is why i criticise the juncker cabinet for the fact that almost none of its material includes tourism as a term. i demand that you consider making it a long-term goal. thank you very much.
in writing. on 21 january 2015, the commission adopted a proposal for a decision on the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund for poland to support the reintegration into the labour market of workers made redundant as a result of major structural changes in world trade patterns due to globalisation. according to the data cited by the polish authorities, the union has suffered a significant loss of market share in the chemical sector, losing its former leading position in the sales of chemical products. the redundancies at zachem were unforeseeable, as the market supply of its main product, tdi (toloul-diisocyanate), increased suddenly. in other parts of the world, investments to exploit economies of scale and further integrate the supply chain allowed these producers to produce at a lower average cost resulting in a 30% oversupply. as a result of this and the low transport costs combined, zachem was not competitive in this environment. the coordinated package of personalised services, co-financed by the fund, will be addressed to the 50 most deprived persons and comprises two measures: recruitment incentives and intervention measures. the fidesz-kdnp delegation supports the motion in solidarity. it is important that dismissed workers receive appropriate support for their reintegration into the labour market.
in writing. ‒ i was pleased to vote for all the motions to mobilise the european globalisation adjustment fund. the european globalisation adjustment fund is an important instrument of solidarity within the union, helping workers whose jobs have been lost as a result of globalisation to find a new job as soon as possible and to find a permanent job in a competitive sector. an active employment policy instrument that shares the burden of returning to the labour market between the worker, the member state concerned and the union, and the resulting benefits for the worker who is able to return to work, for the member state that is forced to deal with unemployment and for the union that aims to increase employment. i would also consider the need to set up a similar fund to help pay workers in the backward, crisis-hit regions.
in writing. on 16 december 2014, the commission adopted a proposal for a decision to mobilise the european globalisation adjustment fund for germany to support the reintegration into the labour market of workers made redundant as a result of major structural changes in world trade patterns due to globalisation. according to the data provided by the german authorities, aleo solar is only one of a number of european solar companies that have gone bankrupt, ceased business in this field, partially or completely stopped production or sold to chinese investors in the last few years (since 2010). between 2005 and 2011, the share of chinese revenue increased from 11% to 45%, while the share of germany decreased from 64% to 21%. the coordinated package of personalised services to be co-financed includes the following measures to reintegrate 476 workers made redundant: vocational training, career guidance and career guidance, entrepreneurship counselling, interregional mobility counselling, job search with a job search expert, follow-up mentoring for workers finding a new job who may need counselling to keep their job or who have to move because of the job, and training support equivalent to 60% of the worker's previous net income. the fidesz-kdnp delegation supports the motion in solidarity. it is important that dismissed workers receive appropriate support for their reintegration into the labour market.
in writing. on 9 december 2014, the commission adopted a proposal for a decision to mobilise the european globalisation adjustment fund for belgium to support the reintegration into the labour market of workers made redundant as a result of major structural changes in world trade patterns due to globalisation. according to the data provided by the belgian authorities, the steel industry is facing serious economic difficulties, namely a rapid decline in its market share in the eu. in the eu-27, crude steel production fell from 206,9 million tonnes to 177,7 million tonnes between 2006 and 2011 (−14,1%; annual growth of −3,0%) (5), while worldwide production increased from 1249,0 million tonnes to 1518,3 million tonnes (+21,6%; annual growth of +4,0%). as a result, the eu-27's market share in terms of volume of world production of crude steel decreased from 16,6% to 11,7% between 2006 and 2011 (−29,4%; annual growth of −6,7%). by comparison, the chinese market share increased from 33,7% to 45,0% over the same period (+33,6%; +6,0% year-on-year). the coordinated package of personalised services to be co-financed includes the following measures for the reintegration of 701 dismissed workers: individual job search assistance, case management and general information service, training and retraining, and encouragement of entrepreneurship. the fidesz-kdnp delegation supports the motion in solidarity. it is important that dismissed workers receive appropriate support for their reintegration into the labour market.
in writing. on 9 december 2014, the commission adopted a proposal for a decision to mobilise the european globalisation adjustment fund for belgium to support the reintegration into the labour market of workers made redundant as a result of major structural changes in world trade patterns due to globalisation. according to the data provided by the belgian authorities, the steel industry, in which arcelormittal liège s.a. was active, is facing serious economic difficulties and is rapidly losing market share in the eu. the eu-27 saw a decrease in crude steel production from 210,1 million tonnes to 166,2 million tonnes between 2007 and 2013 (−20,9%; annual growth rate of −3,8%) while worldwide production increased from 1 348,1 million tonnes to 1 649,3 million tonnes (+22,3%; annual growth rate of +3,4%). the commission also found that the union industry's sales volume to unrelated customers in the union increased by more than 10% during the period considered. in contrast, production in asia increased significantly over the same period, from 56% to 67%. the coordinated package of services covers three main areas: re-employment, training and retraining, and encouraging entrepreneurship. the fidesz-kdnp delegation supports the motion in solidarity. it is important that dismissed workers receive appropriate support for their reintegration into the labour market.
in writing. on 9 december 2014, the commission adopted a proposal for a decision to mobilise the european globalisation adjustment fund for belgium to support the reintegration into the labour market of workers made redundant as a result of major structural changes in world trade patterns due to globalisation. according to the information provided by the belgian authorities, caterpillar was hit hard by the decline in demand for these types of products in europe, which led it to relocate a significant part of its production capacity to third countries. according to the information provided by the belgian authorities, caterpillar's production facilities are located close to their markets, which explains the link between european and global market developments and the reduction in staff at the gosselies plant. since 2007, the caterpillar group has established operations in emerging economies in asia and latin america, and its growth is primarily linked to these markets. caterpillar gosselies' main market in the european union depends on public and private investment in european infrastructure, which has been recently curtailed. the coordinated package of services covers three main areas: re-employment, training and retraining, and encouraging entrepreneurship. the fidesz-kdnp delegation supports the motion in solidarity. it is important that dismissed workers receive appropriate support for their reintegration into the labour market.
in writing. ‒ council directive 96/53/ec limits the maximum size and the maximum mass of certain road vehicles. however, technological developments have allowed for significant improvements in the aerodynamic characteristics of vehicles through the innovative design of the driver's cab and the installation of retractable/folding aerodynamic devices mounted at the rear of the vehicle. alternative power transmission systems have also been developed which can significantly reduce the environmental impact. this would increase the energy efficiency of vehicles, reduce their emissions, improve road safety and the safety and comfort of the driver, while increasing the length and overall weight of the vehicle. i consider it appropriate to propose an increase in the maximum size and total mass permitted by the directive in order to use these advanced technological means without increasing the previously limited payload of motor vehicles.
in writing. ‒ the compromise report contributes to the protection of both the environment and infrastructure. the adoption of the amendment to the directive is a significant step towards a safer european road transport regulation, which also takes into account the specificities of the member states.
in writing. ‒ the directive is much stronger than the original document that the commission initiated. the right compromise was reached. this directive not only limits the size and weight of trucks on eu roads but also promotes combined road-rail or road-ship transport operations. it is very important that there will be no general eu-wide permission for the ‘gigaliners’ to circulate. the other big result is to set the framework for greener and safer truck cabins, and last but not least these new cabins will have a huge impact as we move towards the eu’s ambitious ‘vision zero’ (zero road fatalities) by 2050. that is why i voted in favour.
in writing. long-term financing, the european long-term investment funds, can play an important role in achieving the europe 2020 strategy's objectives of smart, sustainable and inclusive growth, promoting high levels of employment and strengthening competitiveness. european long-term investment funds provide long-term financing for infrastructure projects, unlisted companies or listed smes for which there is no readily identifiable buyer for the equity or debt instruments issued. in the absence of common union rules, divergent measures at national level may occur and divergent national requirements may lead to distortions of competition, different levels of investor protection, increased legal uncertainty and a decline in investor confidence. the smooth functioning of the internal market and a high level of investor protection require uniform union rules.
in writing. ‒ european long-term investment funds contribute to the long-term financing of the european economy, in particular for sustainable infrastructure projects, unlisted companies or listed smes, covering an area where bank financing has not always proved possible or successful. they can also provide income to investors who prefer a return, albeit lower, but secure in the long term, such as pension funds, insurance companies, foundations, municipalities. european long-term investment funds can thus contribute to meeting a previously insufficiently met demand in the money market as a complement to the banking system. their uniform eu regulation could be an important step towards completing the banking union. all of which justified my yes vote.
in writing. ‒ the long-term investment funds are the vehicles designed to boost non-bank investment in the real economy across europe. this is an efficient new tool that will give a major boost to financing long-term investment, as supported by president juncker’s plan. this new financial tool helps us to solve the complex economic situation we are faced with, achieving economic growth, increasing financial stability and ensuring consumer protection at the same time. i voted in favour, supporting this new tool.
in writing. ‒ the draft regulation on interchange fees for card-based payment transactions could contribute to the integration of the union's internal market, to the harmonisation of financial market operations and to fair and transparent competition in banking services, in particular for cross-border payment transactions. acceptance of it would be a step towards deepening european integration, and beyond the practical benefits, it would therefore be in line with the long-term vision of my party, the democratic coalition, to create a united states of europe. the regulation can count on my support in the later stages of the legislative process.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on interchange fees for card-based payments, as the smooth functioning of the internal market requires the completion of an integrated market for electronic payments, which would also help to reduce transaction costs for consumers. the distinction between domestic and foreign payment transactions should be avoided, as this would be detrimental to both traders, entrepreneurs and consumers. card-based payment transactions are an area which, by its nature, needs to be addressed at european level. the commission's efforts to remove obstacles to the efficient functioning of card-based payments and, in this context, mobile and internet payments based on card payments are therefore welcome. these and similar actions are what citizens expect from the european union and can really bring it closer to its people.
in writing. ‒ the report is part of the legislative process that, together with the financial services directive, is ensuring a level playing field in the financial sector in europe. it is a competitive incentive and helps cardholders to select the most advantageous card. the rate of the interbank fee, up to a maximum, shall be equal to the percentage prescribed in hungary. i supported the adoption of the report.
in writing. on 21 january 2015, the commission adopted a proposal for a decision to mobilise the european globalisation adjustment fund for belgium to support the reintegration into the labour market of workers made redundant as a result of major structural changes in world trade patterns due to globalisation. according to the data cited by the belgian authorities, the sector of safety glass for the automotive industry suffered a serious economic blow due to several factors. the activities of sgs benelux were closely linked to the production trends in the automotive industry, which decreased from 21,9 million to 19,5 million units between 2007 and 2012, while worldwide it increased from 47,5 million to 60,6 million units. as a result, according to the information provided by the belgian authorities, sgs benelux incurred an operating loss of eur 20,46 million between 2007 and 2012. as a result, sgs concentrated its activities in the most profitable units, leading to redundancies at sgs benelux. the coordinated package of personalised services to be co-financed includes the following measures for the reintegration of 257 dismissed workers: individual job search assistance, case management and general information service, training and retraining, and business incentives. the fidesz-kdnp delegation supports the motion in solidarity. it is important that dismissed workers receive appropriate support for their reintegration into the labour market.
thank you very much. in my country, hungary, i meet many women who are tortured, exhausted, who are in poor physical and mental health. they carry an unbearable burden, for they have to take care of children, sick family members, the elderly, and the household, and they have to prove separately in their workplace that they are a full-fledged workforce. they often do this for a substantially lower income than their male counterparts in similar jobs. i voted for every part of this document that seeks to remedy this shocking situation. but i couldn't vote for the entire bill because it says that women have the right to have an abortion, but it doesn't help them prevent it, and it stands by them in their difficult situation.
in writing. ‒ i fully agreed with the 2013 progress report on equality between women and men, which expresses dissatisfaction with the outcome of the steps taken to promote gender equality. i voted in favour of the proposals contained in the report, with the aim of ensuring that similar reports in the coming years would report on significantly faster progress.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the european parliament resolution on progress made in 2013 in the area of equality between women and men in the european union. i believe it is important to be able to enforce the principle of equal opportunities and equal treatment between men and women, to which this resolution contributes. i believe that further progress is needed in the area of equal opportunities to achieve the europe 2020 targets. for example, not only do we need to achieve a 75% employment level within the eu, but it is important to improve the quality of employment, as well as the rate of employment. if current trends continue, women and men, for example, will not receive equal pay for equal work until 2084. i believe it is important to remove barriers to women's careers and economic dependence, to improve the work-life balance, to guarantee maternity leave and the right to abortion, and to stand up against violence against women!
in writing. i consider it very important to regularly discuss the achievements in the field of equal opportunities for women and men and to draw attention to the most important tasks. the report sets a target date for achieving equal pay for equal work. this can be accompanied by a specific strategy, which is why i supported the report.
as a socialist member of parliament and as the shadow rapporteur of the sd group, i voted in favour of the adoption of the annual report on competition policy. i am pleased that this report has once again taken important steps towards a more socially balanced europe, better protecting workers and strengthening public services. however, in the light of the many results achieved, i must underline that neither i nor my group will support any further attempts by the liberals or the right-wing members to impose any kind of privatisation on the member states in the railway, air and port sectors. for our part, we would like to emphasise that paragraph 85 of the report cannot be interpreted either literally or, in our judgment, in particular, as a call for this, i.e. privatisation. that is why we were able to support the report at the same time.
in writing. ‒ a draft parliament resolution on the annual report on eu competition policy calls for the strict application of competition law principles in eu markets to ensure fair competition and to remove artificial barriers to competition; for more effective anti-monopoly regulation, in particular in relation to high-damaging cartels; for action to be taken against tax evasion, tax fraud and tax havens; for the fragmentation of markets to be eliminated; for the credit crisis, which often affects small and medium-sized enterprises, to be alleviated and for all forms of protectionism to be tackled. all this is in the direction of unifying the market, of deepening the union, and that is why i supported the draft resolution.
in writing. ‒ a comprehensive and detailed report. the transport and postal services part was the same as the group's position. i supported the competition policy report.
in writing. ‒ the draft resolution on the 2013 annual report of the european central bank addresses with ruthless candor the problems facing the european economy: sluggish growth, rising unemployment (including the catastrophic rate of youth unemployment), the threat to employment and welfare objectives, the insufficient impact of interest rate cuts on credit sentiment, the threat of deflation, stagnating investment, the fragmentation of european financial markets. as i believe that the only possible way of tackling all these problems is through deeper integration, i support the draft resolution.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the european parliament's report on the annual report of the european central bank for 2013. the report recognises a number of positive trends in the ecb's work, such as the commitment of the european central bank to improving the institutional framework of economic and monetary union. the ecb also stresses the importance of responsible fiscal policy and investment for the member states, which i agree with. the bank's commitment to transparency is particularly welcome, as it made the minutes of ecb meetings available from january 2015, in response to a request from the european parliament. the ecb's intention to play an active role in enhancing the competitiveness of the euro area and the union as a whole is clear. to achieve this, however, the ecb needs to pay greater attention to smes, to increase the amount of bank loans available to them, since they are a major factor in the union's competitiveness.
in writing. ‒ the report covers monetary policy and financial stability in detail. i supported the adoption of the report.
it's a two-card draw. mr czarnecki mentioned that irregular payments of up to eur 2 billion were a burden on the european union's financial framework, although he was obviously also referring to corruption. i'm just asking if he or his political movement agrees that the european union should also grow with a prosecutor general who could otherwise prosecute directly in the member states to protect european financial interests.
on behalf of the verts/ale group.– madam president, after a long and difficult discussion, the green group supports the current text of the report adopted in committee, which also includes our critical approach concerning olaf. we support the strengthened text, particularly on the fight against corruption, which we consider one of the main battlefields in order to defend the eu’s financial interest, to ensure a high level of confidence in the eu institutions and to secure minimum risk to eu taxpayers’ money. we are happy that this report also highlights the threat of cross—border vat fraud that jeopardises not only national budgets, but also the eu budget. in addition to the report, we need adequate regulation on whistle—blower protection in numerous countries, including hungary, my home country. the quality of whistle—blower protection is very poor, and in many cases the procedures in hungary are conducted against the whistle—blowers themselves instead of those reported in cases of corruption. lastly, i would like to highlight the importance of the need for a european public prosecutor’s office. we need to fight further for the establishment of an independent and efficient institution like that. we have to convince not only the council, but also the european citizens, that this is in the interests of taxpayers and that this is in the interests of all european citizens.
in writing. in my speech, i would like to draw attention to some important factors in relation to public procurement procedures carried out in the context of hungarian road construction projects, as the european commission found the procedure used by the hungarian party to be distorting and discriminatory. although the hungarian state immediately put an end to the practice, the commission's proposed sanction is still approximately huf 90 billion (correction of 25% of the contracts concerned). the commission's auditors only identified the irregularity at the end of the 2007-2013 period, in december 2013. the court of justice of the european union has no case law in this area and it cannot therefore be concluded that the rules applied by the hungarian state are unlawful. the requirements imposed by the contracting authority were intended to facilitate the timely and proper execution of road construction projects. the requirements affected foreign and hungarian tenderers equally, with 35 out of 62 cases being won by joint tenderers or consortia with foreign members. the case is currently in the preliminary suspension phase. the commission should take into account that the irregularity identified only at the end of the programming period and the prolonged procedure may impose a disproportionate burden on the hungarian public finances, which makes it significantly more difficult to close the operational programmes in time and also has a negative impact on maximising the use of resources.
on behalf of the verts/ale group.– madam president, first of all let me congratulate the rapporteur on this very balanced and constructively negotiated report. i appreciate both his work and the text that has come out of it. my group is going to support the resolution, first of all because we seriously believe that there is no real alternative in the western balkans to eu accession. there is no conceivable political alternative, and there is no conceivable economic or social alternative, if the region is to be what europe is good at – at peace with itself and with its neighbours. there is, as the commissioner rightly pointed out, a grave political crisis in macedonia, which is real and dangerous. however, this real and dangerous crisis is just yet another illustration of the fact that a long—drawn—out negotiation process, with a large number of issues that actually polarise politics and societies in the region, is something we need to deal with directly. macedonia needs our help to overcome this political crisis, and i wish that everybody in this chamber were willing to contribute to the resolution of the crisis instead of making it worse. macedonia may have been much more of a success story a few years back, but the problems identified in the progress report are actually common to all the western balkan countries under the accession process. the rule of law, freedom of the media, administrative reforms: all these are problems in all the other accession countries in precisely the same way that they are in macedonia. as for good neighbourly relations, these are very important in the region traditionally, but they happen to be dependent on two neighbours. good neighbourly relations are not just one country’s responsibility, and one of the countries concerned in this case could, for example, comply with the ruling of the international court of justice of 5 december 2011 – the symbolic issue might then become easier to resolve. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8))
blue card answer.– well i can just repeat what i have already said, that good neighbourly relations depend on good neighbours, and there are at least two of them in each case. on the other hand, this is a part of the world which has a long tradition of animosity springing out of a shared, but contested, history. we cannot help this. what we can help with is actually overcoming the traumas of the shared history. let me remind you that if anybody 20 years ago had said that here in the european parliament building we would be discussing the accession of yugoslav countries, this would have been considered insane at that moment. let us pause and think about that for a while.
following last year's country report, the european commission is now proposing for the sixth time to open accession negotiations with macedonia. as a member of a delegation last year, i was able to see for myself that the republic of macedonia was ready for this. i therefore strongly urge the european council to set a date for the start of negotiations without delay, regardless of the scandalous naming debate. the internal political situation in macedonia is deteriorating and the post-communist opposition is also hindering the start of the integration process. the union itself is responsible for the current situation. as a representative of the former communist region of central and eastern europe, i support with full solidarity the cause of the european accession of the nation-building new state of macedonia.
for me, this report on serbia would be credible if it deliberately included the individual and collective human rights that serbia is obliged to guarantee to the indigenous national communities living on its territory, such as the southern hungarians, who number about 300 000 people, without which it would be said that there is no accession to the european union. what i mean is that, for example, as a human right, we are obliged to guarantee full national self-determination, territorial autonomy according to the south tyrolean model, because if we are in the european union, we must use european models and european values, and the full use of languages. i don't know if the commissioner and the rapporteur know that hungarian-language radio stations, hungarian radio stations founded by the local government, will be closed down because they are being privatized. i ask you to do something about this and ensure full non-discrimination, equal treatment for the hungarians in the south. here are your demands, i'll pass them on to the complainant and the constable.
for my part, i fully agree with mr andrej plenkovic that this report does indeed have some very serious merits, as it very well sets out the progress made by the serbian government in recent times and very well and precisely expresses the expectations of the european union. i would like to draw the commissioner's attention to two points in particular: firstly, we must demand that the candidate countries join the common foreign and security policy now, and that we also expect serbia to join the sanctions against russia. and the other is croatia, hungary is both a neighbouring and multi-ethnic country, just like serbia. please, mr. commissioner, continue to ensure that the right neighbourhood policy and the rights of national minorities, including the former hungarians, are fully enforced.
we've already said a lot about this year's report and we've said how balanced it is, and for that, we'd like to thank the rapporteur, mr mcallister. it is a tribute to the serbian government's year-long work, but also a list of tasks that the eu expects serbia to complete as soon as possible. the ep's decision is also politically important, as it is necessary to further encourage the serbian government in its determination to be part of the great family of european peoples. serbia is under great political pressure and we want to help it from this parliament. hungary is a neighbouring country and has a strong interest in serbia's membership of the eu. in addition to foreign, security and economic interests, good neighbourly relations have also developed between the two countries over the past few years. it is also quite obvious that we are extremely interested in the future of the hungarian community in serbia, for which further improvement in the implementation of minority rights is essential. this is important to me personally, because as a native of hungary, i am aware that the future of the hungarian community there depends on it.
in writing. i would like to thank my colleague mcallister for his openness to accepting our amendments, which are particularly important for the national minorities living in serbia, such as the former hungarians. the importance of national councils and the need for adequate funding, the need to ensure the use of the mother tongue in all areas of life and the need for minority presence in the public administration, judiciary and police were discussed. the european parliament is adopting one of its strongest resolutions on serbia tomorrow. the call for a minority action plan to be drawn up in the context of accession negotiations is of particular importance. this would avoid the earlier accession experience, whereby candidate countries only temporarily take account of the interests of these national communities until accession. i therefore consider it important that the commission monitors the application of and compliance with existing legislation.
the euphoric joy of kosovo's recently won independence stands in stark contrast to what we are currently experiencing in the country. in the face of a worsening domestic political situation, growing poverty and unemployment, and a host of social problems, the people of the new state cannot really enjoy the freedom they have won or the support of the union. that's why tens of thousands of people are choosing to emigrate. the domestic political class is primarily responsible for the hopeless situation. in this context, however, the community of nations that make up the country must also take on increased responsibility and sacrifice in order to remedy the deepening crisis. the kosovo government and the european union, in the framework of integration cooperation, can only find a solution to stop the dangerous migration at home in kosovo . serbia, which is on the way to accession, should also be encouraged not to hinder but to promote the development of its once prosperous province. thereby serving the cause of reparation and reconciliation.
europe allowed kosovo to declare independence in 2008. the balkan peace process was launched and the possibility of the balkan countries joining the european union was put in the distance. but the 2014 kosovo exodus showed all of us that it's not enough what we've done for the people of kosovo. how is it possible that one-third of the population of a country is about to leave a country and go to europe? today, the people of kosovo have only two choices: either they suffer the poverty that can only be drowned in at home, or they try to make a living in europe by working for themselves. europe must therefore take responsibility for all kosovars, both those who remain at home and those who are leaving for europe, unfortunately, today in the european union we are faced with extremist parties trying to forge domestic political capital from this issue, and in hungary we see that the ruling party is also trying to describe the kosovo refugees as immigrants for a living. we see that independence has brought the people of kosovo nothing but despair after the initial joy, and that is why europe has a lot of work to do, and the member states of the european union have a lot of work to do: we must advocate a policy of inclusion rather than exclusion.
it's a two-card draw. i would like to ask mr weber, the leader of the group of the european people's party, but my colleagues in the people's party have spoken a lot about the energy union. you have fidesz in your ranks, which is currently running the hungarian government, and just yesterday they sealed a deal for 30 years to build a real, complete nuclear power plant for 10 billion euros of russian money, with russian technology in hungary. what does the people's party think about this in terms of the energy union?
it's a two-card draw. obviously, mr president, we agree that if the european union gets 40% of its energy from external sources, then it is also a matter of competitiveness. however, i am shocked by what you say about the federalist objectives. can you not imagine that this could be done within the current contractual framework without infringing the sovereignty of the member states?
in writing. i would like to draw the attention of the commission and the council to two technical issues. on the one hand, if it has already happened that funds from the horizon 2020 programme and the connecting europe facility (cef) are being transferred to the european fund for strategic investments (efsi) guarantee fund and we want to stimulate the economy by means of a loan rather than a grant, we should be careful that the applicant projects can benefit from both sources simultaneously. my second suggestion relates to compliance with the supply chain security regulation (994/2010). the security of supply regulation sets out strict infrastructure-related principles and rules, such as the n-1 principle or the mandatory bi-directionalisation of cross-border capacity until december 2013. i suggest that consideration be given to allowing member states that have not complied with their legal obligation by the deadline and now wish to raise funds for the infrastructure development project that has not been realised to receive support under the cef or the efsi only where justified. we must avoid delaying the implementation of important energy infrastructure projects. we all know that member states are dependent on each other for crossborder infrastructure and the commission should not be permissive or tolerant or reward those who do not do their homework.
in writing. the energy union strategic framework, which the commission has just published, will make a major contribution to achieving some of the objectives of the 2030 framework for climate and energy, including the transition to a decarbonised economy, economic sustainability and the fight against climate change. it also contributes to the implementation of renewable energy and energy efficiency policies at union level, which together contribute to energy security and energy dependency reduction. in my view, one of the main means of achieving decarbonisation is the effective functioning of the eu emissions trading system. the eu ets sequesters carbon emissions, thereby promoting cost-effective reductions in greenhouse gas emissions and engaging industry. it is also welcome that the new compensation mechanisms under the eu ets, the appropriate use of the innovation and modernisation funds, and the ner400 instrument can significantly help the development of the energy sector in the light of the energy union priorities. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's energy policy and its implementation in the member states. finally, with regard to the paris protocol, i would like to reiterate that i continue to regard the broadest possible involvement of the contracting countries and the promotion of their commitments as the main objective. it is also important that these reduction commitments are legally binding at international level.
in writing. the energy union is the only way to achieve energy independence in europe. the energy union will guarantee a lasting reduction in energy prices and a more efficient use of energy. but it would be worthwhile to set up an even more ambitious programme. europe needs a common purchasing system for raw materials to increase its bargaining power with third countries, especially russia. joint action would significantly improve the negotiating positions of the member states, for example, hungary with 10 million people could get gas with the eu's bargaining power of 500 million. the key to our economic growth is investing in renewable energy. new energy not only creates more jobs than any nuclear plant investment, it's also the foundation of our economic growth. in germany, since 2011, almost 400,000 jobs and eur 17 billion in economic output per year have been generated by renewables. more than half of sweden's energy supply is covered by renewable energy, compared with 30% in denmark. the current hungarian government's performance in this area is also dismal: it has not been able to increase its share of new energy since 2010, and it recently imposed a product charge on solar panels and wind turbines. we need a reform similar to the german energy cycle if we want to see hungary among the eu's first-generation students again. new energy not only creates economic growth, jobs and cheap energy, but also offers great research opportunities and even protects our environment. let's take the renewable energy targets in europe seriously.
the rapporteur. as rapporteur, i would first of all like to thank the shadow rapporteurs and all those who have helped to bring the internal market report into this format during the european semester by proposing amendments. we are used to having very tight deadlines for european semesters, and we have been working with this. the first and most important point is that we believe that the committee on the internal market and consumer protection considers it very important that there should be an independent pillar, a dedicated pillar, in this respect, dealing with the governance of the single market and the internal market. the second very important point is that we wanted to deal with those areas which have added value in the internal market, which serve economic growth, which focus on job creation. these are not areas that we have invented, but the imco committee has studies, these are the latest studies that focus on these key areas. and these are the key areas that we've covered in our report. overall, we believe that our achievements so far, which have been precisely in the area of transposition of legislation in relation to the internal market, are too quantitative. and we are not concerned with how qualitatively the member states transpose these laws. we believe that there is a need to focus much more on the quality of implementation. we can also imagine key sectoral indicators in this respect that would be much better indicators of the progress we have made. the crisis has clearly demonstrated the need to renew the economic model of the european union. and that is to increase our competitiveness. we have opportunities, but we haven't used them. the european union must therefore take strong supportive action to increase cross-border trade, to keep pace with a changing world and to invest more in digital technology, digital industry, which is also part of the juncker plan. we believe that repositioning the internal market would in any case contribute to making progress in the areas of economic growth and employment and to achieving the objectives of the eu 2020 strategy. this dedicated pillar i'm talking about, it's clearly going to be about the real economy. the real economy that we need to revive the most. it is essential that we define priorities in this respect too. we have had our interpretations of the internal market up to now, but this has not yet been extended to the real economy, so that we can achieve real results and take effective steps, and i believe that these should be taken, further steps should be taken in this respect. the same is true of the question of governance: much more control is needed and strong political support is needed to make it happen in the internal market. so the mechanisms that we have built up have to be actually operated, if necessary, then strengthened. i would like to mention one very big sadness that i find difficult to digest, unfortunately the part on the governance of the internal market was not included in the annual growth report. i know that i have received the commission's reply to this, but precisely because this is our common objective, i find it difficult to accept it.
the rapporteur. - mr president, i have to go. my fellow members of parliament! those who were present at the debate will certainly agree with what i am saying, that it was very useful and gave us an opportunity to discuss the proposals contained in the report. at the same time, this debate has highlighted the need for further coordination efforts, for example specifically in the field of internal market integration. we have so many laws in this area, and they are so intricate that they are certainly difficult to enforce. this transplant is not just a question of quantity, it's a question of quality. so let's not be afraid to look at the indicators that can point to a quality transplant. on the other hand, it's a question of control and management. it's very important that when we make laws, when we make measures, that we make everybody equal, not equal and more equal. you can't be too big to fall outside the rules. we can't have a double standard. as regards the key areas, i have listed many of them in my report, but i would like to focus on one: the issue of the digital single market, which i believe is the most important task we have to tackle. but, ladies and gentlemen, the generation that has grown up before computers does not understand why we are talking about a digital single market when it is so fragmented and we are not taking action to achieve it. madam secretary, i don't understand you either. i do not understand the presidency how it is that they do not feel that the abolition of roaming charges is important for the building of this digital internal market. i don't understand why we're pushing it to 2018. i would ask the commissioner, mr vice-president, to take account of our recommendations in the reports when drawing up the next reports.
in writing. i was pleased to note that the three reports address a number of issues that really affect the future of europe. i myself believe that the extension of the internal market is the instrument that really serves the interests of the european citizens. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's policy on digital services, in particular by ensuring that the union's digital services are updated and adapted to the new challenges of the digital era. however, i would like to focus on another issue, the issue of structural reform. today, even the best-intentioned structural reforms have proved to be a setback, as they have been badly mismanaged on many occasions. structural reforms must be carried out in a socially balanced manner while protecting citizens. it should also be underlined that i believe that member states should not only create well-paid jobs but also sustainable and high-quality jobs in all respects. the exploitation of workers and the worsening of bargaining power for workers as a result of the economic crisis must be prevented. finally, i would like to reiterate that, in addition to tax evasion, tax fraud and tax rulings that are contrary to morality, the european union and the member states must also combat over-taxation. it is unacceptable that there is a member state in europe which charges vat of 27% on basic foodstuffs, not to mention the additional burdens.
in writing. ‒ i am pleased that this extremely important legislative dossier has been brought to the agenda after a long time. i welcome the fact that the proposal also contains a number of technical solutions which are a suitable complement to the existing regulatory framework. globalisation has led to a significant increase in the number and volume of trade with third countries, and i therefore consider it of the utmost importance that the union controls imports from third countries through an appropriate regulatory regime. i welcome the fact that the proposal specifically covers textile imports from third countries with which we do not trade on the basis of a bilateral trade agreement and for the reasons i have outlined i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ the proposal presented is a largely technical adaptation of an earlier regulation, adapting certain points to changes that have taken place in the meantime.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the proposal which sets out the framework for future relations between the european union and the republic of montenegro, thus allowing the common strategy to be developed. i welcome the priorities set out in the report and support the proposal, as we have a common interest in economic recovery and prosperity for the whole of europe. the stabilisation and association agreement, outlining the prospect of accession to the union, provides an opportunity to build our policy on the basis of common standards, which will allow the development of our economic, commercial and political relations between our member states and the republic of montenegro.
in writing. ‒ the proposal presented is a consolidation of the association agreement with montenegro and an earlier council regulation without substantial changes.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the proposal to consolidate the amendments to the wording of council regulation (ec) no 774/94 of 29 march 1994 laying down provisions for the opening and administration of certain community tariff quotas for high-quality beef, pigmeat, poultrymeat, wheat and durum wheat, turkey, turkey flour and other residues, while preserving the content of its legal acts. the introduction of single tariff quotas will make it possible to regulate the volume of goods and products imported by the european union, taking into account the needs of both domestic producers and consumers. i welcome the fact that the proposal covers the guarantee of the nature, origin and provenance of imported products and the high standards required by the european union.
in writing. ‒ the proposal presented is a consolidation of the texts of an earlier council regulation without substantial changes.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the opening and administration of certain union tariff quotas for high-quality beef, pigmeat, poultrymeat, wheat and durum wheat, rye, rye flour and other residues. the codification process took account of the negotiations on the general agreement on tariffs and trade and the uruguay round of multilateral trade negotiations on customs agreements, which provide for the opening of annual tariff quotas for the abovementioned products. an important element is that the regulation envisages the introduction of a system guaranteeing the nature, origin and provenance of products. to this end, the presentation of a certificate of authenticity may be required for imports under the concessions provided for in the agreement. the latter approach in line with other eu approaches to designation of origin is of great benefit to consumers and has clear public health benefits.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the proposal for a codification of the regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the import into the union of agricultural products originating in turkey. this theme also reflects the importance of trade for the eu economy. the hungarian poultry sector, which has been developing steadily in recent times, also derives significant income from the export of various poultry products. but the situation has changed radically. migrating wild birds have caused an outbreak of bird flu in the poultry farm at fire island in peace county. hungarian authorities reacted immediately, putting the endangered area under complete quarantine, where more than a hundred thousand ducks were destroyed. in addition, a wider surveillance zone has been established. the control of avian influenza is therefore carried out in an efficient and professional manner and in close cooperation with the european commission. despite the above, several far eastern countries and russia, which are important for hungarian poultry farming, have imposed an import ban on all hungarian poultry products. the trade associations estimate that the turnover loss of the hungarian poultry sector will be around eur 34,5 million in the next three months, and the final damage will be even greater. it's a huge loss. i therefore ask the commissioner for agriculture, phil hogan, to help us find together, quickly, the eu crisis management tools that, if applied immediately, can save hungarian poultry farmers from even more serious damage.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report and attach great importance to the importance of simplifying and making eu legislation more transparent in order to make it clearer and more accessible to citizens, thus further expanding the possibilities for them to exercise their rights. i agree with the codification of acts, which has been amended several times, which is essential for the clarity and transparency of the legal text and for reducing the considerable research work and the time required to compare several acts to establish the provisions in force, and i agree with the rapporteur's view that codification creates legal certainty.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the import into the union of agricultural products originating in turkey. while i consider it important to make the union acquis clear, transparent, easily understandable and accessible to all, the regulation is of particular importance for the functioning of the preferential system applicable to imports into the union of agricultural products originating in turkey. for example, for products for which union regulations require compliance with a certain import price, the application of the preferential tariff regime depends on compliance with this price, which is becoming increasingly difficult to monitor. it is therefore essential that the provisions, as amended many times, are available in one place in an orderly manner.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council suspending certain concessions on imports into the union of agricultural products originating in turkey. it provides for the development and harmonisation of trade preferences for imports of agricultural products originating in turkey into the union and provides for a number of preferential concessions for exports of meat and live animals from the union to turkey. the review of the provisions prohibiting trade in live bovine animals and beef to turkey, which have been in place since 1996, can thus be taken to a new level. furthermore, it is possible to eliminate problems such as the removal of barriers to preferential exports to turkey. i therefore consider that the regulation contributes to the protection of the commercial interests of the union. i believe it is important above all that eu legislation is clear, transparent, easy to understand and accessible to all. the above report contributed to this by adopting a simple, uniform structure of the above provision.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the amendment to the agreement on the general fisheries commission for the mediterranean, which aims to ensure a more sustainable fishing of marine fish stocks, better protection of marine resources and the development of fishing methods. it is clear that 30% of the world's seas are overfished, and the survival of marine fish stocks is at risk. the justified measures taken to maintain marine fish stocks have led to a continuous and significant decline in the amount of marine fish caught. the cfp should therefore pay much more attention to sustainable fisheries, i.e. aquaculture, and in particular freshwater fisheries. a significant part of the hungarian wetlands is located in natura 2000 areas. these fish farms do not represent any threat to the natural values of these areas. in fact, in many cases it is our closed systems of wetlands that have created and preserved unique associations of aquatic habitats. consequently, freshwater aquaculture should be freed from unnecessarily stringent and unnecessary sustainability standards that are justified only for marine fisheries. efforts should be made to define and regulate freshwater aquaculture clearly now.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report, which clarifies the objectives of the gfcm: the development, conservation, optimum use and rational management of living marine resources, and the promotion and sustainable development of aquaculture in the mediterranean and the black sea. i welcome the fact that the amended agreement revises the structure and content of the current agreement in order to bring it into line with the modern tools of regional fisheries management organisations and that the agreement also introduces the definitions necessary for the correct interpretation of the agreement. i support the proposal because i believe it is important to promote common fisheries management, the establishment of fisheries restricted areas to protect our wildlife, the modern and efficient collection, processing and dissemination of data and the development of an integrated fisheries policy for the union. i agree with the rapporteur that the development and proper exploitation of marine living resources in the mediterranean and black seas is a common interest and with the conviction that the conservation and sustainable exploitation of marine living resources in the application area and the protection of marine ecosystems in which these resources occur play an important role in the context of blue growth and sustainable development.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the suspension of immunity of theodoros zagokaris. since, under the constitution of the hellenic republic, a member of parliament cannot be subject to criminal prosecution, detention or arrest, or any other restriction of his liberty, during the legislative cycle, without the consent of parliament. i would like to emphasise that the alleged crime is clearly not related to the position of theodoros zagorakis as a member of the european parliament, but rather to his position as president of the paok football club.
in writing. ‒ i agree with the suspension of immunity of sergei stanishev, therefore i supported the report with a positive vote. in the present case, the protocol on the privileges and immunities of the european union applies, according to which members of the european parliament enjoy the immunity of members of their parliament in their own state, and the bulgarian constitution provides that the prosecution of members of the bulgarian parliament is subject to prior authorisation by the former. an act of the european parliament is therefore required to bring criminal proceedings against mr stanishev. the evidence shows that the alleged offence was committed during the term of office of mr stanishev as prime minister of bulgaria and in connection with that office only, and that the preliminary ruling procedure was initiated well before mr stanishev became a member of the european parliament. it follows that the criminal proceedings against sergei stanishev are in no way connected with his current position as a member of the european parliament.
in writing. in the annual budgetary procedures, the european parliament's first resolution is a declaration of intent, setting out the main points which the rapporteur and parliament will seek to make known in their own reading of the budget in september october. it also provides guidance to the european commission for the preparation of the draft budget. the rapporteur places the 3 e at the heart of the 2016 eu budget, namely employment, enterprise, entrepreneurship, and solidarity within and outside the union and the creation of a secure europe. in this context, it underlines that the union budget contributes to economic, social and territorial cohesion, to supporting research and development and to exploiting the potential of the energy transition and interconnections for job creation and growth. the report gives priority to the resource requirements of the juncker investment plan. notes that the commission's annual activity report for the financial year 2012 was prepared by the court of auditors and that the final annual accounts of the union institutions and bodies were finalised in 2012, as well as the final annual accounts of the european investment bank for the financial year 2012; the fidesz-kdnp delegation supports the adoption of the report in line with the position of the people's party.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report and i particularly welcome the priorities that support reducing unemployment, developing companies and fostering entrepreneurship. i believe that a budget based on the pillars set out in the proposal can increase the competitiveness of the eu business sector, which is particularly important in the context of globalisation and international trade agreements. i welcome the fact that the report emphasises both the eu's external and internal solidarity and the promotion of security within the union. i would like to point out that the proposal also aims to solve a number of existing and recurring budgetary problems.
in writing. the report is highly exaggerated and contains only general guidelines which are not fully applicable in practice. instead of the boring repetition of phrases, a number of good amendments have been tabled, which i support. unfortunately, it is clear that the approach, the structure and the economic philosophy cannot find a way out of the deepening crises. indeed, even the regional, structural and cohesion funds, which are designed to reduce the gap between the different levels of economic development of the eu regions, pay a significant proportion of their funding to the richer member states. the report is completely unacceptable. in this situation, at a time of increasing disparities within the union, the community budget must be increased. the sums needed to do this should come from increasing the contributions of the countries with the highest gross national income and the highest per capita income, by adjusting the current unfair system of contribution keys
in writing. ‒ i fully agree that the 2016 eu budget should promote economic, social and territorial cohesion, reduce the development gap between member states and regions within member states, and fight poverty and promote social inclusion. at the same time, particular attention should be paid to research and development, including energy research and development, job creation, growth promotion and improving competitiveness and innovation. i agree with the report's findings on the worrying state of the future financing of the youth employment guarantee and therefore voted in favour of the report.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report because i consider it of the utmost importance to eliminate the often difficult to see but significant economic distortions of financial fraud within the european union. the proposal adopted will help identify areas at high risk and allow for concerted action to be taken against them. i welcome the fact that this year's report has identified member states' efforts and progress as a top priority, as the competence to tackle this complex problem is based on member states recognising their own strengths and weaknesses. i welcome the fact that the new system will allow for more effective cooperation and information exchange with the european anti-fraud office. i consider it important that the proposal contains a number of practical elements that effectively tackle corruption and other financial fraud through transparency of accounts.
in writing. ‒ i consider the report's contents to be important not only for the protection of the union's primary financial interests, but also for its psychological significance. solidarity within the union, and thus the cohesion of the whole community, is jeopardised if the eu's resources and eu development aid are not managed in a fully transparent manner, without excluding the possibility of fraud. citizens of net contributing member states are expected to be willing to spend part of their tax payments on the development of the less developed member states and regions and on strengthening eu cohesion, but this willingness to sacrifice is difficult to expect when there is a serious suspicion that the money they have paid is being spent lightly, or even stolen, or is not being used for the purpose for which it was paid. i consider particularly important in this respect the establishment of a european public prosecutor's office, in line with the position of my party, the democratic coalition, which could investigate cases that harm or threaten to harm the eu's financial interests independently of national law enforcement and the judiciary.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the 2013 annual report on the protection of the european union's financial interests on the fight against fraud. i myself believe it is important that fraud detection should be as effective and as rapid as possible, as this is a legitimate expectation of european citizens. however, i would also like to stress that although one of the most important causes of vat evasion or avoidance in some member states is overtaxation in this area. the commission should also pay particular attention to this when, in the exercise of its powers, it supports by all means the member states in their fight against vat evasion.
in writing. i am pleased that the european parliament has adopted a balanced resolution on montenegro. i believe that the document is a realistic representation of the current situation in the country. it may address the shortcomings and problems that montenegro is facing, such as corruption, organised crime, the occasional lack of rule of law, restrictions on press freedom, but it is also very important that the resolution acknowledges and highlights the positive steps that the montenegrin government has already taken, such as reforms and legislation, the opening of 16 accession chapters, the alignment of its foreign and security policy with that of the european union.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution confirming the commission's observations on montenegro. in my view, montenegro is well on its way to accession, although with sustainable dialogue and constructive cooperation between the government and the opposition, they can achieve an even better result. i encourage political leaders to stand firmly for the reforms required by eu accession. montenegro is the only country in the region to open and temporarily close negotiating chapters with the union. i agree that this leadership role means greater responsibility both at regional level and in the enlargement process as a whole. i welcome the opening of 16 chapters and the temporary closure of two. in terms of foreign policy, montenegro was the only candidate country in the western balkans region that fully identified with the union's positions and decisions on ukraine. the country's membership of nato should be encouraged.
in writing. year after year, success stories are being written about montenegro, which can do much better than several former yugoslav regions or albania. the european union is in a constant state of crisis economically, financially, socially, and so the two standards are rapidly converging. of course, it is up to the montenegrins to decide which regional cooperation they want to join. of course, they may not know it yet, but they are not on the road to economic ascent, but to total colonization.
in writing. ‒ the report is realistic and balanced; while taking into account the undoubted progress made by montenegro, it faces with uncompromising candor the persisting and, in some cases, worsening problems, such as the state of the rule of law, which it considers to be a central element of the european integration process, the insufficiently effective fight against corruption and organised crime, the limits on freedom of expression, the deteriorating state of media freedom, including targeted incidents against journalists and media workers, the lack of independence of the judiciary, including unjustified influence on judicial independence, the lack of due diligence on the rules of procedure, the lack of transparency in the fight against corruption, the lack of transparency in the fight against corruption, the lack of transparency in the fight against corruption, the lack of transparency in the fight against corruption, the lack of transparency in the fight against corruption, the lack of transparency in the fight against corruption, the lack of transparency in the fight against corruption, the lack of transparency in the fight against corruption, the lack of transparency in the fight against corruption, the lack of transparency in the fight against corruption, the lack of transparency in the fight against corruption, the lack of transparency in the fight against corruption, the lack of transparency in the fight against corruption, the lack of transparency in the fight against corruption, the lack of transparency in the fight against corruption, the fight against corruption of the investigation, the investigation of the investigation of the investigation of the investigation of the investigation of the investigation of the investigation of the investigation of the investigation of the investigation of the investigation of the investigation of the investigation of the investigation of the investigation of the investigation of the investigation of the investigation of the investigation of it is therefore somewhat contradictory that the report encourages the continuation of accession negotiations on the basis of the reforms implemented and the concrete results achieved in the areas of the rule of law, the media environment and the fight against corruption, but i nevertheless voted in favour of its adoption because i believe that the only way to ensure the application of european values and standards in montenegro is to continue the accession negotiations.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution on the 2014 report on the achievements of montenegro, which pointed out that montenegro has made significant progress in its integration with the eu. the proposal correctly lists areas where further significant progress is needed, such as the fight against corruption, freedom of expression and the press, and the independence of the judiciary. the active participation of civil society should be encouraged in all these reform processes. i also welcome the mention of encouraging the country's future membership of nato. this is important because all countries in the region are already members of the organisation and montenegro's accession would further strengthen the security of the region.
in writing. ‒ i welcome the resolution on the fyrom adopted by parliament. i consider it very important that we have adopted a document that includes the positives achieved, but points out the shortcomings, the errors that fyrom still needs to work on in order to develop the country. i find it regrettable that the initiation of the accession process has taken so long. this is certainly a bad sign for a country that is struggling with internal political tensions. it is crucial that the country emerges from this stagnation as soon as possible and starts the process of euro integration more vigorously, and we should help here in the european parliament.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution, as macedonia has been a candidate country for eu membership for nine years, and i agree with the parliament's repeated call for the council to set a date for the opening of accession negotiations. bilateral issues of dispute have no place in a country's eu integration, and further delays in the opening of negotiations have increasingly unpredictable costs for the country and for regional stability. the credibility of the european union's enlargement policy is also at stake. the accession process is currently under way and the commission will continue to monitor progress in the implementation of the acquis. i agree that in the process of integration, each candidate and potential candidate country should be dealt with on its own merits.
in writing. as before, the key elements of the resolution are that a country has been unable to find a name acceptable to the eu for more than 20 years. furthermore, the state and the legal economy are largely described in negative terms. at the same time, a european union with a large number of citizens who are dissatisfied with its functioning, a currency that is unstable, unemployment that is steadily rising and a development that is sustained by the colonization of new countries by multinational companies from the old member states. it's hard for any thinking person to make a workable design out of this, so everyone benefits from being able to join permanently once their gdp reaches the eu average.
in writing. ‒ the report rightly points out that, despite the problems in the country, including those related to the rule of law, corruption, organised crime, the independence of the judiciary, the media and freedom of expression, macedonia has been a candidate country for eu membership for nine years. the opening of accession negotiations, despite six commission recommendations and nine calls from parliament, could only be prevented by the council's opposition to the opening of negotiations because of the historic bilateral dispute with greece over the country's name. in my view, this situation is unsustainable and i share the rapporteur's view that it is causing serious disappointment in the macedonian public, undermining the credibility of the eu in their eyes and reversing the achievements of democratization.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution on the 2014 report on the achievements of the former yugoslav republic of macedonia, in particular because it correctly calls on the council to set a date for the opening of accession negotiations. it is very important for the stability of the region that the former yugoslav republic of macedonia maintains its momentum and commitment to reforms, as the proposal points out, as the country is the most successful among the candidate countries in terms of alignment with the eu acquis. i also welcome the fact that the motion urges the accession of the former yugoslav republic of macedonia to nato in order to ensure stability in the region.
in writing. ‒ with its decision on serbia, david mcallister, the european parliament adopted a balanced and realistic document. it also highlights serbia's shortcomings, areas where the country needs to improve, but at the same time it does not forget to commend the successful reform measures taken by the serbian government so far. it is crucial for hungary, and for me personally, that minority issues are given a proper place in the text of the resolution. the decision is a significant step in further encouraging the country to become part of the great family of european peoples. the amendments proposed by the fidesz delegation, in coordination, have enabled the report to shed more light on certain issues and to convey a more positive overall message about serbia. hungary was interested in serbia becoming an eu member as soon as possible. in addition to foreign, security and economic interests, good neighbourly relations have also developed between the two countries over the past few years. further improvements in the implementation of minority rights are also necessary. this is important to me personally, because as a transcarpathian, i am aware that the future of hungarian communities living beyond the borders of the country depends on this. i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. the european parliament adopted a balanced and realistic document with its decision on serbia by mr david mcallister. it also highlights serbia's shortcomings, flaws and areas where the country needs to improve, but at the same time it does not forget to commend the successful reform measures taken by the serbian government in the past year. we consider this very important, because it helps serbia to remain on the european path. furthermore, it is crucial for hungary that minority issues are given a proper place in the text of the decision. we have thus contributed to ensuring that the rights of indigenous national minorities are fully protected and not infringed.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution because the european union aims to promote peace, stability and economic development in the western balkans and to put the prospect of eu integration in perspective. i would also like to draw attention to the fact that this resolution reflects, for the first time in the history of the european parliament, the interests of serbia and the kingdom of vojvodina in a spirit of partnership. the document also acknowledges the election of the national minority councils on 26 october 2014. in serbia, the 2009 law on national councils made it possible, among other things, for the first of the hungarian-speaking regions of the carpathian basin to establish in vojvodina an institutional system guaranteeing the cultural autonomy of minorities. i welcome serbia's commitment to integration and the high level of preparedness shown by the previous serbian government at the very beginning of the accession negotiations. fortunately, the new government is also making european integration a priority. the european commission must learn from the delay in the croatian accession negotiations and start with the two most difficult chapters, namely chapter 23 (justice and fundamental rights) and chapter 24 (law, freedom and security). i consider the agreement reached with kosovo at the brussels meeting in february to be important, as it was a sensitive issue in the normalisation of relations between the two countries, since serbia cannot start the substantive part of the accession negotiations until it has fulfilled the terms of the brussels treaty.
in writing. ‒ the report reports on major progress in most important areas, apart from serbia's policy towards russia, and in this respect the positive assessment of the conduct of the early elections by international observers is particularly important. i therefore consider the report to be worthy of support.
in writing. ‒ by adopting david mcallister's progress report on serbia, the european parliament recognised the efforts of the serbian government to implement reforms in line with european values, while also highlighting the further steps needed. from the hungarian point of view, it is a special result that we were able to represent the rights of historical minorities across the border, and thus of the hungarian serbs, in a dignified way with our amendment proposals submitted by the fidesz people's party delegation.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the adoption of the report, also taking into account the fact that the success and credibility of the serbian accession process is a key issue for the democratisation of the entire balkan region in line with european standards, its long-term stability and economic development. i think it is right that the report acknowledges the efforts and achievements of the new serbian government, while at the same time giving sufficient weight and detail to the tasks facing belgrade and the eu's expectations at this stage of the accession negotiation process. two of these important aspects have been given special weight: 1. the russian aggression against ukraine has once again highlighted the importance of a united and coherent european foreign policy, and the report rightly recalls that we also expect candidate countries to align themselves with our common foreign and security policy. we cannot allow belgrade or any current or future member state to formulate and shape its relations with russia against the common eu interests. in the current situation, the eu has a legitimate expectation that the serbian government will join the sanctions. the second: the report rightly points out that an open, constructive neighbourhood policy and the safeguarding and fulfilment of minority rights are of particular importance for long-term peace and stability in the balkans. in this context, i consider it important that in the case of serbia, the report recalls the special and delicate situation of the vojvodina and its (mainly hungarian) minorities.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution, as the european union must continue to send a strong and clear signal in support of the western balkans integration process. i consider it essential that the five eu member states which have not yet done so should also recognise kosovo's independence. i welcome the end of the six-month post-election domestic political crisis and the appointment of the kosovo government. i agree that the new government must take action to fight corruption and organized crime at all levels. i'm glad to see that there's been progress in the organizational part of the judiciary. i consider the agreement reached in brussels in february on the sensitive issue of judicial structures in northern kosovo to be important, as it was one of the cornerstones of the 2013 agreement. under the current agreement, the serbian and kosovar prime ministers agreed on the ethnic balance of judges and prosecutors in northern kosovo. i think this is a great success, because a few years ago it would have been unthinkable to have an equal number of albanian and serbian legal professionals in the judiciary. kosovo is committed to normalizing its relations with serbia, which they need, as the country is in the process of a stabilisation and association agreement.
in writing. the recommendation lists at length the negatives that characterize the public conditions in kosovo. as is known, the eu took note of but did not recognise kosovo's declaration of independence in 2008. he left it up to the member states to decide how to proceed. the eu's five member states (spain, cyprus, greece, romania and slovakia) still do not recognise kosovo. recent events have raised many questions in thinking people about how some peoples can have the right to independence, even where they settled, and why others who have lived as indigenous peoples for thousands of years do not have that right.
in writing. ‒ kosovo is a focal point in the balkans and europe as a whole, owing to the many problems listed in the report, and it is therefore particularly important that the country's integration into europe progresses in as many areas as possible and as quickly as possible. the measures recommended in the report are, in my view, effective in this respect.
madam president, thank you for your time. i reject the report on the european semester on principle. at the outbreak of the financial crisis, president nicolas sarkozy announced the need to create a european economic government that would function as a real government. many found this formulation strong and it was disguised as closer economic coordination and the european semester we are discussing. in essence, the union gives the member states' governments precise instructions on what should be included in their financial-economic plans. at the end of the semester, the negotiations will reveal whether the union will accept this or not. it should be made clear that the european semester is the preliminary fixing and approval of the budgets of the member states, and that this restricts the sovereign right of national parliaments to draw up the budget.
in writing. ‒ i support the report's approach to restoring european economic growth, with the main elements of investment stimulation, structural reforms and prudent fiscal policies, i welcome the efforts to further unify the european market and i agree that recovery requires increasing the competitiveness of the eu economy as a whole, above all by strengthening competition that increases innovation-driven efficiency.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the 2015 annual growth report. i consider it appropriate and worthwhile to continue the practice established in 2010 of analysing each year the budgetary, macroeconomic and structural reform plans of the eu member states. however, it is important that all the democratic deficits of the european semester be addressed as soon as possible and in a really effective way. this is a prerequisite for further strengthening the union's competitiveness. it is also appropriate that the report focuses on investments and the european investment plan, with particular attention to the special situation of smes. i also think it is important that the report stresses the need to pay due attention to the social and employment effects of structural reforms. i myself believe that structural reforms should only be carried out in a socially balanced and socially sustainable way.
in writing. ‒ i am very pleased that it should now be clear to the majority of meps that the hungarian government's policy is increasingly to be followed. in particular, the state aid for the placement of children in schools, highlighted in section 80, is a good example and practice that hungary is explicitly pursuing in the fight against child poverty, recognising its importance. the amendments proposed by me and accepted by the majority of empl clearly accepted the hungarian government's approach. the background to this is that hungary has doubled its budgetary allocation in the last 3 years (from 29 billion) and now the hungarian government is spending more than 60 billion forints this year. from 2016, 100% of childcare and pre-schools at risk of poverty will be covered. this is all the more interesting because while in 2009/2010 the left government originally wanted to reduce the amount spent on childcare by two thirds, saying that no substantial additional funding was needed, the right-wing civil government made more concrete efforts both to fight child poverty and to help foreign currency borrowers or even to reduce the price of food, helping millions of hungarian families.
in writing. the proposal's strengths include its emphasis on employment and social aspects, its people-centric approach, the harmonisation of wage regulation and its criticism of austerity. it is not the proposal that is to blame for the unsustainability of the liberal market economy theory and the inhumanity and anti-socialism of the practice that follows from it. because what kind of world is it where 1% of the population owns 48% of the wealth? what kind of world is this where wars are waged for profit? how far is this road? we don't have another earth, so where do the rich go with their wealth if this planet is destroyed?
in writing. ‒ i am convinced that education and training create jobs in addition to investment: capital owners invest and create new jobs where there is a sufficient volume of highly qualified, high-quality labour capable of producing high added value. i therefore attach great importance to developing human capital through education, training, active labour market policies, addressing the financing problems of smes, tackling the worryingly high youth unemployment rate and supporting research, development and innovation to increase productivity.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on employment and social aspects of the 2015 annual growth survey. the european semester, which has been in place since 2010, is an important tool for maintaining and enhancing the union's competitiveness, but it can only work well if employment considerations are given due weight in its application. it is not enough to focus on protecting jobs in the context of structural reforms, which have sometimes been implemented in a flawed manner, but we must also ensure that newly created jobs guarantee a good standard of living. the report deals with these issues in detail, among other things, which is why i was able to support it.
in writing. as a central european country, we have benefited from the single market, the cleverly conceived western european agricultural products of poor quality have made it impossible to produce at home, and we have added our meat and dairy standards, which guarantee quality food, to the eu rules. since then, you can eat paris made from wallpaper glue and creamed milk pudding made from palm oil. our once world-famous factories like ikarus, ganz, flames, etc. have been closed down, even demolished, our markets looted. the country is colonized. the report expects the imposition of an already failed neoliberal economic policy to solve the crisis and is therefore to be rejected. to do a bad thing better is futile and harmful, to do a good thing even less effectively is worthwhile.
in writing. ‒ europe needs to reform its economic model in order to create an efficient internal market environment that supports competitiveness. in this context, the fidesz people's delegation aims to provide the union with support to member states to promote cross-border trade and to ensure that appropriate digital tools to facilitate this are accessible to all and are available in a favourable manner.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report because i myself believe that the union's potential can be further enhanced by continuing to expand the integration of the single market. we must continue to work to remove all obstacles in this area wherever possible and to the common benefit of all eu citizens. i think it is a very good approach to have a separate chapter in the report on the digital single market, which is an area where the need to strengthen it is now beyond question. i myself believe that progress in the creation of the digital single market is essential to stimulate growth and create quality jobs and to preserve the union's competitiveness. the recent decision by the european council to delay the abolition of roaming charges is particularly regrettable for this reason. however, i personally consider it important in this respect to reduce the cost of crossborder calls not only when a call is made or received from another member state, but also when a call is made from the country of the member state issuing the sim card to another member state. it is unacceptable for operators to use price differentials in this area, since this too is a factor which is counterproductive to the single market.
in writing. sexual abuse of children seriously affects fundamental rights. the emergence of such abuse online requires a comprehensive approach, including the investigation of crimes, the prosecution of perpetrators, the protection of child victims and preventive measures. sexual exploitation can take many forms in online environments and involves children being threatened that images/videos will be shared if they do not continue with sexual activities. the international nature of the problem and the fact that in most cases only a small proportion is reported to law enforcement authorities, all of which require rapid and effective cross-border action against child sexual exploitation.
in writing. ‒ as one of the drafters of the text, i would like to welcome the newly adopted resolution on online child abuse, which is another milestone in the fight against the increasingly dangerous online abuse of our children. sadly, the younger generation is especially vulnerable to this cruel form of abuse, which is becoming more and more common with the advent of the internet and the advancement of technology. exemplary international collaboration is needed to curb the spread of online sexual harassment of children. i welcome the european commission's attention to this area. by supporting hotlines, creating awareness-raising centres and exchanging information, we can indeed do more to protect our children at eu level, because the internet knows no borders and it is not enough to tackle this phenomenon at the level of individual member states. the global alliance against online child abuse, which currently has 54 member states worldwide, is also helping with global action. only through a comprehensive international combination of legal, technical and educational measures can we effectively tackle these threats, which, through the world of the internet, are penetrating into the most protected childrens' rooms.
in writing. ‒ sexual abuse and exploitation of children is always sexual violence, even if the acts and motives normally associated with violence do not occur. it is also clear that the internet, with its many benefits, is also a particularly suitable tool for this type of abuse, which is why the internet has become an increasingly popular platform for child sexual abuse. in order to protect the rights of children and their healthy psychosexual development, every effort must therefore be made to prevent such harassment and to make it punishable if it occurs. the motion for a resolution to this effect was tabled by most of the ep's political groups and a synthesis of these draft resolutions was presented to the european parliament, which i voted for, of course, along with most of my colleagues.
in writing. ‒ the protection of children and families is one of the priorities of the fidesz group, which is why it is very important that our colleague gál kinga has contributed as co-author to the action against violence against children, which is spreading on the internet and thus also across borders, which is a successful step in the fight against abuse.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution on sexual abuse of children online. in my view, protecting and guaranteeing a safe environment and development for children is one of the most important tasks of the european union and its member states. i agree with the elements in the motion and believe that serious crime - including sexual exploitation of children and material relating to sexual abuse of children - requires a comprehensive approach, including the investigation of crimes, the prosecution of offenders, the protection of child victims and the prevention of the phenomenon. i also believe that there is a need to improve international cooperation and cross-border investigations in this area. i also expect closer cooperation between member states, internet service providers and europol. this proposal is in line with my initiative to extend the preventive approach to violence or abuse against vulnerable groups such as women and children, the elderly and the disabled.
it's a two-card draw. mr. president, congresswoman, i really, really don't want to be a bother. i simply ask you, in all honesty, that your group of the people's party has 12 fidesz members, a party whose leader, viktor orbán, the current hungarian prime minister, has in several interviews and public speeches called vladimir putin a role model and has cited the russian path, which we are condemning here today, as an example, and has done so in comparison with the european path. don't you talk about this in your own group?
mr president: this is yet another tragedy on which we are entitled to speak and we need to speak. the death of boris nemtsov is not just the murder of a politician. politicians can be murdered for many different reasons all around the world. when politicians are murdered in russia it is usually a political murder. of course, what we demand from the russian authorities is the swift and timely revelation of all the facts they know, but we have the suspicion that this may not extend to telling the whole story. after all, the official report on the murder of sergei kirov is still that a lone murderer was responsible. there have been other cases, like the murders of anna politkovskaya and numerous others, which raise the question as to how far the kremlin is actually willing to go in preventing atrocities happening to opposition politicians. if standing in elections as an opposition candidate puts your life at risk, and if standing up for values and criticising the policies of your government puts your life or your freedom at risk, then this calls into question the degree of democracy in the country concerned. if russia is a democracy then it should respond to acts of terror like this in the way that democracies do. france stood up after the charlie hebdo attack and unequivocally said that the appropriate response was to strengthen freedom of expression, to strengthen the rule of law, and to strengthen individual political freedoms for everyone in the country in order to prevent any repeat. this is what we require from russia. this is what we ask of russia. we cannot and will not decide for russia what kind of political system its people wish to live under, but russia deserves better.
i have received seven motions for resolutions on this debate, tabled in accordance with rule 123 (2) and (4) of the rules of procedure. i'll close this discussion. the vote will take place on thursday 12 march 2015. the commission shall be assisted by the committee established by article 15 of regulation (eu) no 182/2011.
the debate on the annual report of the high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy to the european parliament (a8-0039/2015) will now continue.
it's a two-card draw. i would like to ask the honourable member that, although we are talking about a common foreign policy, we are always a little ashamed when this unity is weakened or violated by the government of one of the member states. i would respectfully ask you whether you think that this parliament or your party can do anything to produce unity behind mrs mogherini in this respect.
i'll inform my fellow mps that the list is extremely long. that is why, since the list is long and we are in the process of drawing up, i will not be taking up the questions put by my colleagues on the green paper.
i thank the honourable member for her understanding that this is a long list and that i cannot allow any blue-card questions or comments. we'll move on to the next item. i give the floor to mr rados on behalf of the alde.
on behalf of the verts/ale group.– madam president, first of all, let me thank the rapporteur, mr brok, who was very thoughtful and careful in the formulations of this report. i think it is a very strong text, and of course, he was also very generous as a negotiating partner and i welcome very much that approach, which should be exemplary to all other negotiations within this house. i believe personally that this text could serve in the future as an anchor in our debate. this could be a point to which we can return to work out future agreements in our discussions, be it about the european foreign and security policy, be it about defence or be it about neighbourhood policy. this can serve as a basic text to which we can return in order to find the minimum common ground on which we can work out the necessary broad consensus, without which a european common and foreign policy might not work. of course, as a green group, we welcome the mainstreaming of our most important priorities in the text. we welcome the emphasis given to climate protection and disarmament, which has been a long-standing request from the green group. it found its way into the report and we appreciate that. the most important part of the common foreign and security policy is, of course, in the first objective. whether it is common or not is not tested very well in peaceful times, but it is seriously tested in crises, and we are surrounded with crises which cannot be resolved or solved by any of the member states but through common action, and that common action presupposes a common understanding and a common voice. that common voice being the most important, i very much hope that the next council meetings will be able to come up with that necessary common voice to serve as the foundation for future common action. we are certainly not at the limit of our capacities in foreign policy either, but there is room for improvement and this is a good starting point for that.
madam president, the biggest foreign policy challenge for the european union in 2014 was to participate effectively in the settlement of the ukrainian conflict, but it failed. the union has from the outset assessed the situation in a completely unilateral manner. he gave his full and uncritical support to the new government that came to power with the help of the united states, and he described those who were fighting for self-determination as simply separatist terrorists. he failed to consider that russia has legitimate national security interests in this conflict. ukraine is a victim of a global power game. the united states is working to restore a unipolar world order. the eu cannot become a pawn in this game, it must pursue an independent foreign policy on new foundations for the benefit of its member states and the people of ukraine.
mr president, our colleague elmar brok has done a great deal of work on his annual report to the european parliament for the european foreign and security policy committee. i appreciate your work. it is true that the security situation in the immediate neighbourhood of the european union has become dramatically grave. this calls for swift and effective efforts to protect european values and interests and to restore and preserve peace and stability. this is all the more true in the light of the russian-ukrainian conflict, which has been going on for more than a year in the european union's neighbourhood. in this context, it is important that the sanctions adopted by the union in response to the russian aggression against ukraine are modified in the context of the development of a unified union position in relation to the implementation of both minsk ceasefire agreements and the fulfilment by russia of its international obligations, such as the respect of the ceasefire, the withdrawal of heavy weapons and troops.
mr president, in 2012 the council adopted the eu strategic framework on human rights and democracy to strengthen our engagement with third countries. the eu now has a special representative for human rights to enhance the effectiveness of our work. one can say that we now have better tools to jointly defend human rights in the world, yet we still struggle to speak out for the defence of human rights because we are divided and we compromise our values. it is shameful for such an important report to be inappropriately and selfishly used by some in this house to stress internal divisions in issues that remain strictly under national competency. this is wrong, and it diminishes our credibility. i oppose all efforts that stop us from genuinely addressing the ongoing human rights violations, including the persecution of christians, torture, violence against children and women, the situation on migrants and refugees, people with disabilities and others.
mr president, i am pleased that the rights of the child, including the fight against child hunger and malnutrition, have been given high priority in the annual report. i also consider it important that my proposal includes a separate chapter on the rights of traditional national minorities and that it is recognised that their particular situation requires a specific solution if they are to have genuine equal opportunities. but i would like to speak now about the most serious human rights situation: the situation of christians in the middle east, including women and children, who are tortured, killed and enslaved for their faith. these are the most egregious violations of human rights, crimes against humanity, that cannot be justified in any way, that contradict the teachings of all religions, and that are incompatible with the most fundamental values of human civilization. the martyrs of the 21st century are these middle eastern christian victims. we cannot stand by and watch this happen, so i ask the high representative to use all available means to confront these inhuman crimes and to find allies.
i'll close this discussion. the vote will take place on thursday 12 march 2015. the commission shall be assisted by the committee established by article 15 of regulation (eu) no 182/2011.
in writing. in this context, i would like to underline that the eu must treat human rights as a central element in all its relations with third countries, including strategic partners. i believe that it is necessary for the eu agencies to prepare an annual report on their activities in the field of human rights, including minority rights. political transition and democratisation should in all cases be linked to respect for human rights, the promotion of justice, transparency, accountability, reconciliation and the rule of law, and support for the establishment of democratic institutions. i am pleased that the report emphasises that national minorities have specific needs and that full and effective equality between persons belonging to national minorities and those belonging to the majority must be promoted in all areas of social, political and cultural life.
we now continue our debate on the following statement by the vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy: the unstable situation in libya and its consequences (2015/2602 ((rsp)).
i'll close this discussion. the commission shall be assisted by the committee established by article 15 of regulation (eu) no 182/2011.
we now continue our debate on the following statement by the vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy: the malian peace agreement (2015/2593 ((rsp)) was signed on 28 may 2015.
madam president, my colleagues have already referred to the spread of anti-semitism. but let me ask you today, on the international day of victims of terrorism, do we remember the victims? remember the three little children who died in toulouse? remember the victims in paris? remember the victims outside the jewish museum in brussels? i'm afraid not really. i'm afraid we're forgetting about these murderous attacks very quickly. today we find that our jewish citizens in europe are afraid in their daily lives because they are exposed to physical and verbal atrocities. you have mentioned, commissioner, that in france, england and i could list the number of european countries where there has been a dramatic increase in anti-semitic acts against jews. and when we look for the reasons, we point to islamic fundamentalism on the one hand, and another topic that we don't like to talk about, and that is far-right ideology. we do not like to talk about the fact that in europe today there are governments that claim to be democratic and that are willing to ally themselves with far-right forces in order to maintain power. in my country, hungary, we have a government like that in power right now. i think we have to realize that anti-semitism is not just an ideology of the far right, but it's also emerging in the middle of society. anti-semitic authors are being included in school textbooks, and people are becoming more and more willing to accept in their daily lives that we should treat jews differently than we treat other citizens. and we are the reason for this because we refuse to face with ruthless honesty what we should face: that we are not always enough solidarity, that we do not stand up for others, that we do not raise our voice, that we prefer to turn our eyes away every time, but we do not face when our jewish citizens are atrocities. i join all those who say that the european parliament should take a much more decisive stance and create a 'task force' whose task is to resist anti-semitism.
author. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, our resolution today is a major step towards europe finally understanding and taking up its role in dealing with the crisis caused by islam. today, i must emphasize again that the christian and other indigenous ethnic minorities in the region are on the verge of dispersal and total disappearance. their diaspora makes them even more vulnerable. the leader of the chaldean christians, patriarch sako, who has been personally invited by several of us, has come to us this week with another desperate message. the increasing jihadist advance and the operations of the iraqi military forces have dramatically aggravated the situation of refugees. thousands more innocent families were left without a future. there is no concrete rescue plan. we need food, medicine, shelter, education, the patriarch urges decision makers. as the joint resolution today underlines, it is our duty to provide refuge for persecuted people, first and foremost in their own country. this disaster cannot go unanswered unless europe provides adequate, and now primarily humanitarian, aid, and no one else knows or will do it for us.
in writing. ‒ the murder of opposition leader boris nyemtsov raises serious questions about the respect for civil rights in russia. members of the russian opposition have been risking their lives for years to uphold democratic rights and the principle of freedom of speech. i believe that the eu-28 needs to develop a common policy towards russia that conveys the message that respect for human and minority rights is an important element in the eu-russia relationship. the suppression of freedom of expression, assembly and association in russia must end. i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution.
in writing. ‒ as you know, boris nemtsov, a leader of the russian liberal and democratic opposition, one of the most outspoken critics of president putin and his regime, who fought for a modern, democratic and open russia and who wanted to publish the results of his investigations into russia's role in the conflict in the donetsk basin, was assassinated two days before the demonstration he organized for 1 march 2015. the european parliament has repeatedly called for the eu to take action to ensure that the rights of the child are respected and that the rights of the child are protected. it is also a fact that politically motivated murders and suspicious deaths occur regularly in russia, which remain unexplained, but which could not have occurred without the political environment created by the russian authorities, the atmosphere of hatred against opposition activists, human rights defenders, minorities and neighbouring nations in recent years, and the atmosphere created and intensified by state propaganda and official media. for all these reasons, i consider the contents of the draft resolution, as one of the authors of the resolution, to be very well founded.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution because i believe it is important that the ep, with its full political weight, condemns unitedly this outrageous political crime and the cynical russian government response to it. the resolution also calls on the eu to take action to prevent the spread of the virus and to ensure that the virus is contained in the country. i think it is necessary to draw attention to the fact that there are also some among the leaders of the eu member states who see putin's distorted, repressive conception of democracy, which includes even the violent suppression of political opponents, as a kind of political model. i regard our decision as a strong warning from the ep to all like-minded politicians.
in writing. ‒ recent geo-political events in the eu's immediate neighbourhood and in the more remote regions have raised the legitimate need to review our common foreign policy. we must recognize that financial austerity and lack of cooperation are jeopardizing europe's role in international peacekeeping at both regional and global levels. that is why we need a more coordinated, stronger common foreign policy, a common european security strategy that is able to respond effectively to new challenges. we need to act together in areas such as the fight against terrorism, migration and energy policy.
in writing. the report is highly controversial in both content and editing, so i could not support it. the european external action service is one of the eu's veterinary horses, facing many challenges in terms of its profession, its direction and other aspects. the greatest threat to the future of our continent and our citizens in the work of the foreign service is the failure of the eu to act against the escalation of war conflicts in its eastern and southern neighbourhoods. the negotiations on ttip could also cause serious problems.
in writing. ‒ the report, which is linked to the annual report of the high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy/vice-president of the commission, advocates deepening european integration, closer cooperation within the framework of the common foreign and security policy and the common security and defence policy, making better use of the opportunities offered by these policies, and thus strengthening europe's internal security and external influence. i'm all for it.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report by elmar brok on the work of the high representative, given its positive assessment and supportive nature. i appreciate the efforts of the high representative mogherini, who has consistently sought to develop a far more coherent, consistent and effective framework for the cfsp since taking office. as a condition for this, i consider particularly important the work of the eeas to substantially improve its organisational, operational and economic conditions, in line with the findings of the report. i am convinced that the real test of our efforts to strengthen the eu as an independent and active international actor is, and will be, a united action in our eastern neighbourhood, in the ukrainian-russian conflict, and the implementation of the recommendations contained in the report. for the same reason, i am in favour of the high representative receiving all possible political support from the ep and at the same time all the necessary conditions at council and commission level to ensure full unity of member states, especially in the face of russia's expansionist foreign policy aspirations. the key condition for this, in my view, is to create the means for the hr to be able to act more effectively against member states' foreign policy aspirations that undermine or oppose the cfsp, in particular actions, agreements and declarations that openly serve moscow's objectives.
in writing. no, because it's all wrong. you have to build from the ground up. just like you have to sweep around your own house. the european union has plenty of it. starting with colonization, profiteering, slave labor, child labor, even wars, and then a whole lot of other things. first, authenticity, then example, then you can lead others by example. the second is the reorganization of society, the smallest unit of which since the beginning of time has been the family. it includes the rights of the individual, but always in accordance with his duties. the rest is after this.
in writing. ‒ the report stresses the indivisibility, inviolability and universality of human rights and the need to treat human rights as a central element in all the union's relations with third countries. it calls for eu support for human rights defenders and human rights organisations. action against the death penalty, torture and other cruel, inhuman and degrading treatment or punishment. it deals in detail with freedom of expression, including the safeguarding of freedom of expression online, freedom of assembly and association, freedom of thought, conscience and religion, the rights of women and children, minority rights such as the rights of persons with disabilities, lgbti persons and persons belonging to national minorities, corruption, trafficking in human beings, migration. it is important, however, that the basic principles of democracy and the rule of law do not apply in some member states of the european union. europe can only act credibly abroad if the basic principles of human rights are fully respected at home.
in writing. ‒ in order to achieve a joint and coherent response to the terrorism that is threatening the european way of life and values, strengthening cooperation should be a key element in eu’s counter terrorism strategy. i therefore welcome the recent memorandum of understanding that was signed with the league of arab states on cooperation in countering terrorism. this sends a very positive message, because it shows that in a fight against terrorists driven by the ideology of islamist extremism, our strong allies are the moderate muslims. if, on one side, this cooperation will help us in our efforts to fight against radicalisation, trace terrorist financing and identify foreign fighters, on the other side it will hopefully stop the rise of any islamophobic sentiment in the eu.
in writing. ‒ the resolution supports action against international terrorism, particularly its extreme jihadist branch, which poses a universal threat, pointing out that the fight against terrorism must address not only the consequences but also the underlying causes of radicalisation, and recalling that policies to reverse radicalisation and combat terrorism cannot be effective without close cooperation with countries of origin. the resolution is not only forward-looking but also extremely timely. the principles, goals and operations of terrorists are fundamentally threatening our european, western world. to act against them is our basic human, moral, and allied duty.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution on sustainable fishing for haddock. i consider that further measures at union level are needed to manage the fishery for this species in order to conserve it. these measures should take due account of scientific knowledge and be based on local governance and the principle of regionalisation. it is clear that 30% of the world's seas are overfished, and the survival of marine fish stocks is at risk. the justified measures taken to maintain marine fish stocks have led to a continuous and significant decline in the amount of marine fish caught. the cfp should therefore pay much more attention to sustainable fisheries, i.e. aquaculture, and in particular freshwater fisheries. a significant part of the hungarian wetlands is located in natura 2000 areas. these fish farms do not represent any threat to the natural values of these areas. in fact, in many cases it is our closed systems of wetlands that have created and preserved unique associations of aquatic habitats. consequently, freshwater aquaculture should be freed from unnecessarily stringent and unnecessary sustainability standards that are justified only for marine fisheries. efforts should be made to define and regulate freshwater aquaculture clearly now.
in writing. ‒ the resolution proposes the priorities to be represented by the high representative/vice-president of the commission at the un human rights council. it shall act in accordance with all the aspects set out in the 2013 state of human rights and democracy report. it deplores the fact that some current etuc members are considered to be the most serious human rights violators and urges the member states to adopt human rights performance criteria which should apply to all states to be elected to the etuc. it supports the establishment of a strong multilateral human rights system under the un umbrella and lists the member states most at risk from the standpoint of human rights. the resolution is forward-looking and its implementation would greatly help the work of the un in the protection of human rights and is therefore, in my view, worthy of support.
in writing. ‒ the resolution reiterates the ep's concern at the deteriorating situation in venezuela, protests against the harassment, arrest, detention and persecution of leading politicians of the democratic opposition, demands adequate medical care and legal representation for them, and holds the venezuelan government to account for the fundamental norms of democracy, the rule of law and human rights. it expresses its concern about the upcoming elections being free and fair and calls for the guarantee of their freedom and integrity. i support the resolution.
it's a two-card draw. madam member, you very correctly have just outlined the benefits of the energy union and called for stronger and more disciplined action towards member states. i respectfully ask you if the hungarian government, led by a certain viktor orbán - whose party is sitting in your ranks - is currently entering into energy contracts with the russians for 10 years, 20 years, 30 years, and is this acceptable to you?
the eu summit agreed to create a european energy union. the document recognises in principle the autonomy of member states to decide on their energy mix. however, the commission is increasingly seeking to ensure that it has a say in and decision-making over the energy policies of individual member states. it also wants to be involved in negotiations between a country and a third party. the ep president has already stated that the eu institutions should have a leading role in the energy union, i.e. central decisions should be taken instead of member states. however, it should be made clear that the energy union should not be achieved through central directives but through cooperation taking into account the sovereignty of the member states.
in writing. in the context of the european council conclusions, i must speak about the implementation of the energy union and the eu's plan to tackle global climate change. i agree with the need to encourage the widest possible interconnection of european energy networks (especially gas and electricity lines). many member states are heavily energy dependent on certain third countries, which significantly limits their freedom of movement in energy procurement. the independence of a country depends to a large extent on the development of its energy dependency, and therefore diversification of energy procurement should be a fundamental interest of all eu member states. the key is to be able to provide significant eu support for the interconnection of energy networks. the commission's decision to transfer a larger amount to finance the so-called juncker investment package from the budget of the european network and telecommunications facility, which is the same instrument used to finance the above objective, is not a good sign. on the other hand, i welcome the fact that the communication identifies as a priority the improvement of energy efficiency and the strong promotion of the transition to renewable energy production. however, the commission should refrain from any action that would impede the use of renewable energy. for example, we should not restrict the planting of useful varieties of trees that provide biomass feedstock, the production of first-generation bioethanol from surplus crops or the promotion of combustible biomass plants. finally, i do not agree with the significant inclusion of agriculture in the greenhouse gas reduction target. agriculture accounts for only 10% of emissions, but a significant reduction in emissions - particularly for ammonia and methane - would lead to a collapse of european livestock production and a decline in crop production.
in writing. - mr president, i have to go. the european council conclusions of 19 march focused on the framework strategy for the energy union and the preparations for the un climate change conference in paris in december this year. the political framework set by the heads of state or government retains the competence of the member states to legislate on the energy union and lays down a number of principles that are of particular importance for hungary's energy strategy. first of all, the price of energy, the affordability of energy, is given due weight in the conclusions. it also stipulates, at the level of a principle, that the composition of a country's energy resources should be a matter for national competence. finally, it is welcome that the conclusions place particular emphasis on supporting the development of energy infrastructure, including better use of existing networks. while concrete legislative proposals to implement the framework strategy are yet to come, these principles are the basis on which we can support the vision of the energy union. finally, in the context of the 21st un climate conference, i consider it important to reiterate that the global fight against climate change will only be successful in the future if other developed countries and currently large developing emitters make ambitious commitments comparable to those of the eu before the 2015 paris conference. the eu has already done its homework when it committed to a uniquely high 40% emission reduction in its 2030 climate and energy framework submission. now it's time for the others.
in writing. - mr president, i have to go. the current hungarian government's special energy policy and the hungarian prime minister's position, which is fearful of national sovereignty, jeopardise the commission's extremely ambitious proposal for the creation of a european energy union. it is no coincidence that several major european newspapers reported on the differences between the visegrad four ahead of the european summit, due to the pro-russian energy policy of the hungarian government. it is no coincidence that the new central and eastern european union with austria, the czech republic and slovakia is being formed without the current hungarian government. the energy union proposal came at an important moment. russia's territorial aggression against ukraine and the conflict in eastern ukraine have made it clear that russia is no longer a reliable partner for europe. we cannot therefore rely on russia to ensure the security of energy supplies for the eastern half of europe, including hungary. the energy union must be set up as soon as possible, guaranteeing the unity of the union vis-à-vis russia and the transparency of energy supply contracts concluded by the member states. the commission's prior standardisation of energy and gas supply contracts is the only guarantee that the leaders of the member states will not conclude agreements with russia that would disrupt the unity of the union, delivering energy to the member states. i therefore welcome the proposal by president tusk to give up the eu's prior regulatory control of contracts, both intergovernmental and commercial, for full transparency.
it's a two-card draw. today, i was standing outside in the rain with mr. liberadzki in front of the building where employers from five countries were protesting against the current regulations. here's the petition that we received that was sent to us, the members of the european parliament. i'm going to send it to you, to all of you. would the honorable member agree that we would like to see a higher salary for our employees, our drivers? but this solution, the german solution, will bring more unemployment to the workers of today in more countries than higher wages. because in our country, in hungary alone, this could affect 40 to 50 thousand jobs. it's not higher wages, it's less work.
many consider the minimum wage issue to be a conflict between the principle of subsidiarity in the member states and the principle of a single market for the provision of services. however, the single market has never been about wage equality, full equality, as there are and will be wage differences between member states. i am not saying that we are opposed to the sovereign right of a member state to set a minimum wage, but we expect it to be done in a way that does not compromise the fundamental values of the european union. we're talking about a narrower area, road transport. it is not right to disguise an issue as social, which also entails a serious financial and administrative burden for transport companies, and in particular for small and medium-sized enterprises. and we have not yet mentioned the amount of penalties for breaches of the national rules, which are so high that they can destroy small businesses in a single blow, while the development and strengthening of smes is the general objective of the union. the european commission must act swiftly and decisively, because it is the only thing that can put an end to this debate and prevent the single european market from gradually falling back to the level it was before 1992. let the commission do what it is primarily called to do, be the guardian of our founding treaties and values.
the sensitivity of my fellow members is understandable in the late hours of the night, we all feel we are at a disadvantage when we sit there. unfortunately, madam president, this is not the way to vote, but the first group to speak in order to be allowed to speak. i know that this is very difficult to get used to and that the time available is very limited in this respect, but i will pass on the honourable member's remarks to the bureau. i'll close this discussion. the commission shall be assisted by the committee established by article 15 of regulation (eu) no 182/2011.
in writing. my big question: will the european customs union be worth celebrating its 50th birthday in 2018, or will it be retired, ending one of the eu's most important achievements? why do i ask? if higher costs resulting from different minimum wages in different countries are now to be incorporated into the price of services, the question is justified: how far would this differ theoretically from imposing duties on goods made in another eu member state, saying that the cost of production of the product concerned is higher domestically, so that the difference could be paid by the manufacturing company in order to ensure that the competitiveness of domestic smes (comparable to those paying higher minimum wages) is not impaired and that competition is on an equal footing in this respect? i await the commission's opinion as to whether the consequences of such minimum wage rules will be the same as if individual member states imposed duties for similar reasons in order to preserve their own competitiveness. this has to end right here and now.
in writing. the german law mentioned above sets a minimum wage of eur 8.50 per hour for employees working in germany. this means that employers have to submit the registration documents to the german authorities in advance, which may lead to additional costs and administrative burdens. i must say, however, that i welcome the increase in the minimum wage and the move towards a single european minimum wage. of course, the impact of the law on other member states and the legality of the law must also be examined, which is what the european commission does. i ask whether the european commission is forecasting a reduction in the number of jobs as a result of the measure? do they examine whether the wages of employees or the burdens of employers are actually increasing? i would also like to know what studies the commission takes into account when formulating its position.
the following is the text of the statements by the council and the commission on 'international roma day' and 'anti-gypsyism in europe and eu recognition of the roma genocide during the second world war' (2015/2615 (rsp)).
on behalf of the ppe group. the upcoming international roma day will give us an opportunity to learn more about the social situation and culture of the roma. the official day of remembrance in hungary is the international roma holocaust remembrance day on 2 august. the roma holocaust, the powder keg, is still known by very few, despite the fact that it claimed the lives of 500,000 roma and sinti. the genocide of the roma is a crime against all humanity for which there is no explanation and cannot be given. and we all carry that legacy here, whether it's in our own country, or in the wider europe, or anywhere in the world. i would like to remind you that during hungary's 2011 european presidency, the member states adopted the european roma strategy, which was also mentioned by the secretary of state. the main objective of this is to facilitate the integration of roma and to improve their living conditions. the hungarian national social inclusion strategy seeks comprehensive and effective solutions to this end. i stress that it seeks and supports, but we must be aware that a decades-old, centuries-old backlog must be filled, brought in. from nursery to university, she is committed to the integration of the most disadvantaged groups, including roma youth. hungary, my country, has started work, yet its roma policy is unjustly attacked by many. at times, we feel like a surgeon whose work has been misrepresented as the cause of illness. change takes time, decades of hard work. this trip is not to be spared. and, my fellow members, i would like to draw your attention to the fact that everyone should do their homework in their own country. the integration of roma is not only one of the most important strategic challenges, but also one of the most promising opportunities for europe. thank you very much for your attention.
although i note that this can be discussed within a parliamentary group, but you have the floor.
perhaps it is worth asking the gypsy people who they consider to be their greatest enemies, the main anti-gypsy people. i have done this during my visits to hungary, and responsible roma people have told me that they are their main enemies, who have an essential interest in keeping roma people in poverty and dependent on aid. who are these guys? well, politicians, first and foremost. politicians who go out during the campaign and buy the votes of the gypsies in misery with a pack of pasta, beer or something. the other group is the corrupt gypsy leaders. those who spend huge sums of money - it's a fashion phrase - on various projects, programmes, citing the misery of the roma, and the miserable part of the roma is the one who sees no benefit from them. the third group is the usurers, who are very often, and mostly, criminals from the gypsy community, who also exploit the misery of the gypsy community, and it would be a real disaster for them if the gypsy population were to rise, because then they would have to make a decent living, just like the traffickers and the runners. it is also worth focusing on these groups when we want to protect and promote roma.
i am glad that the european parliament is dealing with this important subject and i am deeply sorry that this debate - like the previous debate on anti-semitism - is taking place at such a late hour and in a virtually empty room. we are talking about roma in europe, who face continuous discrimination in their daily lives, in all aspects of daily life: education, employment, health. we, as members of parliament, have, i think, a primary task to create a framework within which our fellow roma citizens also consider themselves full members of society. our job is to encourage and invite them to participate in social and political life. i think it is important that we establish a european roma institute which can help to maintain contacts between the roma and non-roma populations. finally, i consider it imperative that august 2nd be declared an official day of remembrance, because this terrible memory, this terrible act, oppresses the conscience of all of us, and i am deeply ashamed that the hungarian authorities were also present as perpetrators in this terrible event. we need to call attention to the fact that hatred, discrimination, racism is still present today. we have just seen how members of the european parliament can speak. i think it's a shame for all of us, and we have to fight it with all our might.
member of the commission.– madam president, i esteem this exclusive privilege to be allowed to speak twice here today. thank you for the opportunity to participate in today’s debate. these discussions are always very inspiring for me, with the flow of – mostly – good ideas which we use in our work. i would like to react quickly to what ms záborská said about humanity. this is very much what i feel in my heart, and we must be strong in combating the increasing intolerance we now have in europe. we had a discussion about this last week with vice-president timmermans. we are planning a big conference for october this year, where we want to gather together with all important stakeholders in the european union to discuss how to combat not only anti-gypsyism but also anti-semitism and other forms and signals of increasing intolerance in europe. i would like to add something regarding the commission policy: i would like to call the policy we want to have a practical policy. we do not need big new legislation, new committees, big glossy conferences. we already have legislation in place, so what we need is stronger enforcement of the existing legislation and very precise insistence on observing the law. this is our main principle: that we are all equal before the law. this is something we need to use in the member states, in everyday policy and everyday action. we are now assessing the national strategies which we collected from the member states. i appreciate the hungarian input, because i know it was the idea of hungary in 2011 to start to work on the national strategies, which enable us to look at new methods and the new instruments we are going to use in the member states and to help best practices to be shared by all. so, for instance, i spoke to the deputy minister in the romanian government who presented to me the new policy the government wants to start in romania to help not only roma citizens but all those who are in need, people suffering from poverty, to overcome these problems. i asked them, please, to implement this as soon as possible, and then in one year’s time i would like them to share their experience with others. it is part of the role of the commission to help ensure that best practices are transferred and to coordinate these actions. in the newly—submitted national strategies we see a lot of innovation, a lot of good ideas, a lot of effort to get rid of the things that do not work, and not to waste time, energy and money, and a really big effort to solve the problems. i hope the strategies will be as good when put into practice as they look on paper. in all the strategies we see ways of combating unemployment and poverty, ways to increase education and access to services, including housing – very practical things. a last comment regarding financing. you said here that well—targeted funding is necessary. it is not only the european social fund which should be used in the most practical and effective way. in this respect the commission – and i personally, because i was very active for four years in eu funding – are helping to share best practices and to share information on what works and what has been funded from the european social fund. but there are also governments financing projects and programmes for roma integration and combating poverty, because most of these programmes concern not only roma citizens but also all those who suffer from poverty. here we see increasing interest from governments in using their resources to help the situation. a last comment regarding the ngos. i very much appreciate the work of ngos and activists working on the ground because they are doing the right work and the proper work to help the situation. i am convinced that if we find a way to introduce multiannual financing of these ngos – which, in fact, work in place of the state doing the work which the public sector should otherwise do – they should have more stable financing. this would, in turn, save time and energy for the real work, as they would not be spent chasing money to survive. i apologise for taking so long but the debate was very inspiring and i felt i wanted to add these practical points.
president-in-office of the council.– madam president, honourable members, i have followed the debate with great interest and i will reiterate that politicians play a great role in shaping public opinion. they can do good but they can also cause a lot of damage. this is why i fully share the opinion that there is no room for hate speech in parliamentary chambers. many of you have made the suggestion that there should be a commemoration date of the roma genocide. i must say that the council has not yet taken a position on this subject. at the same time, i find it symbolic that we are having a discussion on the possibility of a memorial day to commemorate the roma genocide on the day when my country, latvia, commemorates victims of the soviet totalitarian regime. without prejudice to the council’s eventual position on the matter, as a representative of a country whose people suffered a great deal from totalitarian regimes, i understand the historical, political and educational value of having such a date. irrespective of when we celebrate international roma day or when exactly we commemorate victims of the genocide, there is an urgent need to address the poverty, marginalisation and discrimination faced by roma communities. as part of the eu and national action, we have a duty to ourselves, to our values and of course to roma, to tackle public misunderstanding, raise awareness and fight intolerance because, as we look back, so too must we look forward to ending stigmatisation, to properly integrating roma – and indeed all minorities – into european society and to showing that every european has a place in europe. it has been a pleasure to have this dialogue with you on this really vital issue.
thank you very much, madam secretary of state. indeed, shaping public opinion is both our job and our responsibility. that is why hate speech of any kind has no use, indeed no place, in this parliament. but it is important to do more than just talk about improving the situation. i'll close this discussion. the second meeting in april will be the vote. the commission shall be assisted by the committee established by article 15 of regulation (eu) no 182/2011.
in writing. since the first world roma congress in 1971, international roma day has been celebrated. this is an opportunity to pause for a moment and take stock of the situation of the roma. i look around and i see that the roma are still not full citizens of my country. roma in my country have a life expectancy 10 to 15 years shorter than their majority counterparts. their living conditions in many ghettos are comparable to those of people in the third world, with poverty continuing to increase and their opportunities for escape decreasing. since the change of regime, the number of roma excluded from the primary labour market has increased, and the unemployed have begged for years for public service, which is often humiliating and does not provide a real livelihood, but they often do not have access to it. in hungary, almost two-thirds of roma children attend segregated educational institutions. and the minister in charge is standing up for a school administrator who was found by the court to be discriminatory, and the court's response was to amend the law. while eu and national development funds are shared by a political body whose ruling party leader is now unable to account for the expenditure of nearly 2 million euros. the eu is also responsible for the situation: despite a lot of good plans and resources, no tangible change has been made. and it is safe to say that the situation of the groups with the worst capacity for advocacy is the best indicator of what the future of europe holds.
in writing. the uprooting and uplifting of the roma is a shared responsibility of all of us. but how do we live with that responsibility? from brussels and strasbourg, we sometimes shake off the question: we organise a few round table conferences, decide to commission further studies and background analyses, and then allocate billions more to programmes. but i'll take my chances, with a few exceptions, we have very little information about their end use. just one example: in hungary, the national roma municipality - which until now had been run by a fidesz mp - was recently investigated after it was revealed that huf 600 million of funds received from the european union were spent on luxury offices and cars instead of creating jobs. the gypsy self-government system in hungary has been plagued by corruption, inefficiency, and embezzlement for years. a bottomless pit, where we pour european taxpayers' money, and the gypsies at the end of the line don't profit. it is untenable that we do not adequately control these uses of resources, that we do not take into account efficiency. it's a scandal that pro-government politicians are invading and looting the self-organized gypsy community. a few days ago, i was in brussels to meet the gypsy mayor of cserdi, who has almost completely eliminated unemployment and crime in his village through his own initiative, his own unique and sometimes radical programmes. we should learn from him and support people like him who want to do something, not pour money into corrupt systems that make the gypsy problem worse.
the next item is the one-minute oral questions on important political questions (rule 163).
i'd like to invite my fellow congressmen to a very important program. next tuesday at one o'clock there will be a public hearing where the hungarian victims of bank fraud, of violations of the law will speak, the so-called "debt-debtors", the victims of loans based on swiss francs, so to speak. many people ask when they see the poster, "but this problem has already been solved in hungary, right?" they converted these fraudulent swiss franc loans into national currency. yes, but not at the exchange rate at the time of the recording, which was around 160 forints, but at the current market rate, 260 forints. so it's not true that the problem is solved, that people are still being driven to suicide, that tragedies are happening. i ask you to come and find a solution to this problem that affects millions of people in europe, because not only in hungary, but also in croatia, romania, poland, there are such crude constructions.
media pluralism and media freedom are among the most important common core values of the european community and the european union. in recent years, many hungarian mps, the tavares report and various european institutions have drawn attention to the fact that these basic values have been endangered in hungary. the independence and freedom of the media is not guaranteed as in other european countries. since then, the government has taken some steps, but it must be said that there are no longer any guarantees of political independence of the civil service. there is no public service television in hungary, and the distribution of radio frequencies is extremely one-sided. i must say that this is not a hungarian issue, it is a question of the fundamental values of the european union, and that is why it is the fundamental task of the european parliament to draw attention to the violation of these freedoms.
i'll close the agenda.
written explanations of vote
in writing. ‒ the creation of the european globalisation adjustment fund has so far proved to be a highly important tool for workers affected by the consequences of major structural changes in world trade or made redundant as a result of the global financial and economic crisis. in my experience, the subsidies granted so far have helped the redundant workers to re-enter the labour market. the request of the greek government is in line with the criteria laid down when the fund was set up, and i therefore supported its adoption.
in writing. ‒ on 3 february 2015, the commission adopted a proposal for a decision to mobilise the european globalisation adjustment fund for the benefit of greece. the request was sent to the commission on 4 september 2014. the commission has concluded that the application complies with the requirements for mobilising the egf, as laid down in article 4 (1) (b) of regulation (eu) no 1309/2013 of the european parliament and of the council of 17 december 2013. according to the greek authorities, the main events leading to the redundancies were: (1) the reduction in household disposable income due to the increase in tax burdens, the decrease in salaries (affecting both private and public sector employees) and the increase in unemployment, which led to an extraordinary decrease in purchasing power and forced consumers to prioritise their spending and, despite their importance, to significantly reduce the amount spent on daily information; (2) the liquidity problems of the greek banks dramatically depleted the credit resources available to businesses and individuals. the coordinated package of personalised services to be co-financed shall include career guidance, training, retraining, vocational training, self-employment support, job search support, training and mobility support. the fidesz-kdnp delegation supports the motion in solidarity. it is important that dismissed workers receive appropriate support for their reintegration into the labour market.
in writing. ‒ on 3 february 2015, the commission adopted a proposal for a decision to mobilise the european globalisation adjustment fund for the benefit of greece. the request was sent to the commission on 4 september 2014. the commission has concluded that the application complies with the requirements for mobilising the egf, as laid down in article 4 (1) (b) of regulation (eu) no 1309/2013 of the european parliament and of the council of 17 december 2013. according to the greek authorities, the main events leading to the redundancies were: (1) the reduction in household disposable income due to the increase in tax burdens, the decrease in salaries (affecting both private and public sector employees) and the increase in unemployment, which led to an extraordinary decrease in purchasing power and forced consumers to prioritise their spending and, despite their importance, to significantly reduce the amount spent on daily information; (2) the liquidity problems of the greek banks dramatically depleted the credit resources available to businesses and individuals. the coordinated package of personalised services to be co-financed shall include career guidance, training, retraining, vocational training, self-employment support, job search support, training and mobility support. the fidesz-kdnp delegation supports the motion in solidarity. it is important that dismissed workers receive appropriate support for their reintegration into the labour market.
in writing. ‒ on 3 february 2015, the commission adopted a proposal for a decision to mobilise the european globalisation adjustment fund for the benefit of greece. the request was sent to the commission on 4 september 2014. the commission has concluded that the application complies with the requirements for mobilising the egf, as laid down in article 4 (1) (b) of regulation (eu) no 1309/2013 of the european parliament and of the council of 17 december 2013. according to the greek authorities, the main events leading to the redundancies were: (1) the reduction in household disposable income due to the increase in tax burdens, the decrease in salaries (affecting both private and public sector employees) and the increase in unemployment, which led to an extraordinary decrease in purchasing power and forced consumers to prioritise their spending and, despite their importance, to significantly reduce the amount spent on daily information; (2) the liquidity problems of the greek banks dramatically depleted the credit resources available to businesses and individuals. the coordinated package of personalised services to be co-financed shall include career guidance, training, retraining, vocational training, self-employment support, job search support, training and mobility support. the fidesz-kdnp delegation supports the motion in solidarity. it is important that dismissed workers receive appropriate support for their reintegration into the labour market.
in writing. ‒ on 3 february 2015, the commission adopted a proposal for a decision to mobilise the european globalisation adjustment fund for the benefit of greece. the request was sent to the commission on 4 september 2014. the commission has concluded that the application complies with the requirements for mobilising the egf, as laid down in article 4 (1) (b) of regulation (eu) no 1309/2013 of the european parliament and of the council of 17 december 2013. according to the greek authorities, the main events leading to the redundancies were: (1) the reduction in household disposable income due to the increase in tax burdens, the decrease in salaries (affecting both private and public sector employees) and the increase in unemployment, which led to an extraordinary decrease in purchasing power and forced consumers to prioritise their spending and, despite their importance, to significantly reduce the amount spent on daily information; (2) the liquidity problems of the greek banks dramatically depleted the credit resources available to businesses and individuals. the coordinated package of personalised services to be co-financed shall include career guidance, training, retraining, vocational training, self-employment support, job search support, training and mobility support. the fidesz-kdnp delegation supports the motion in solidarity. it is important that dismissed workers receive appropriate support for their reintegration into the labour market.
in writing. ‒ the european globalisation adjustment fund is an important institution of solidarity within the union; it is an active employment policy instrument that shares the burden of returning to the labour market between the worker, the member state concerned and the union, and the result helps both the worker who is able to return to work, the member state that is forced to deal with unemployment and the union that aims to increase employment. two requests submitted by greece request assistance for a personalised service for the reintegration into the labour market of 705 workers to be made redundant in 46 broadcasting and publishing companies in the attica region. the commission considers that the request fulfils the eligibility criteria set out in the regulation and that the provision of the service started well before the aid was granted. on the basis of all the above, i consider that the request should be supported.
written explanations of vote
in writing. ‒ when using the european globalisation adjustment fund, it is important to improve the employability of workers through personalised training and recognition of their previous professional experience. it is expected that continuing training should be adapted not only to the needs and individual aspirations of the dismissed employees but also to the actual business environment.
in writing. ‒ on 3 february 2015, the commission adopted a proposal for a decision to mobilise the european globalisation adjustment fund for greece to support the reintegration into the labour market of workers made redundant as a result of the global financial and economic crisis. in their request, the greek authorities state that the main events leading to the redundancies were: (1) the reduction in household disposable income due to the increase in tax burdens, the decrease in salaries (affecting both private and public sector employees) and the increase in unemployment, which led to an extraordinary decrease in purchasing power and forced consumers to prioritise their spending and abandon products that they do not consider essential in their daily lives; (2) the dramatic reduction in credit resources available to businesses and individuals due to the liquidity problems of the greek banks. the sales of the companies in the sector (newspapers, magazines, etc.) decreased by 60% between 2009 and 2013 due to the weakening of demand for their products. the coordinated package of personalised services to be co-financed shall include career guidance, training, vocational training, self-employment support, job search support, training and mobility support. the fidesz-kdnp delegation supports the motion in solidarity. it is important that dismissed workers receive appropriate support for their reintegration into the labour market.
in writing. ‒ the current hungarian government has so far barely initiated the use of the european globalisation adjustment fund. it has been and is primarily self-employed in order to address the loss of certain jobs and the negative effects thereof. as a result of the government's successful economic policy, hungary is currently experiencing an increase in jobs rather than a decrease. the european union - despite our protests - is treating the european tobacco industry rather harshly. tobacco, grown in europe for centuries, provides livelihoods for 80,000 farmers and employs 350,000 seasonal workers a year, mostly in the poor regions of bulgaria, spain, greece, italy, poland, hungary and romania. it is a well-known fact that european production differs from that of the major exporting countries of the developing world in that, although smaller in quantity, it is of higher quality, more stable and more traceable. these latter characteristics contribute to the mitigation of the public health consequences of smoking. in the course of the cap reform, the commission has succeeded in getting eu support for tobacco production to end completely from 2015, despite the opinion of the european parliament. european tobacco production under control will decline significantly, and this could lead to a significant increase in imports of less controlled tobacco products produced outside the eu and to illicit imports. those measures and effects pose a significant risk of the loss of many jobs in the tobacco production sector. in response to my written question on this subject, the commission considers that the european globalisation adjustment fund is the only viable instrument.
in writing. ‒ on 3 february 2015, the commission adopted a proposal for a decision to mobilise the european globalisation adjustment fund for greece to support the reintegration into the labour market of workers made redundant as a result of the global financial and economic crisis. in their request, the greek authorities state that the main events leading to the redundancies were: (1) the reduction of household disposable income due to the increase in tax burdens, the decrease in salaries (affecting both private and public sector employees) and the increase in unemployment, which led to an extraordinary decrease in purchasing power and forced consumers to prioritise their spending and abandon products that they do not consider essential in their daily lives; (2) the dramatic reduction in credit resources available to businesses and individuals due to the liquidity problems of the greek banks. the sales of the companies in the sector (newspapers, magazines, etc.) decreased by 60% between 2009 and 2013 due to the weakening of demand for their products. the coordinated package of personalised services to be co-financed shall include career guidance, training, vocational training, self-employment support, job search support, training and mobility support. the fidesz-kdnp delegation supports the motion in solidarity. it is important that dismissed workers receive appropriate support for their reintegration into the labour market.
in writing. ‒ on 3 february 2015, the commission adopted a proposal for a decision to mobilise the european globalisation adjustment fund for greece to support the reintegration into the labour market of workers made redundant as a result of the global financial and economic crisis. in their request, the greek authorities state that the main events leading to the redundancies were: (1) the reduction of household disposable income due to the increase in tax burdens, the decrease in salaries (affecting both private and public sector employees) and the increase in unemployment, which led to an extraordinary decrease in purchasing power and forced consumers to prioritise their spending and abandon products that they do not consider essential in their daily lives; (2) the dramatic reduction in credit resources available to businesses and individuals due to the liquidity problems of the greek banks. the sales of the companies in the sector (newspapers, magazines, etc.) decreased by 60% between 2009 and 2013 due to the weakening of demand for their products. the coordinated package of personalised services to be co-financed shall include career guidance, training, vocational training, self-employment support, job search support, training and mobility support. the fidesz-kdnp delegation supports the motion in solidarity. it is important that dismissed workers receive appropriate support for their reintegration into the labour market.
written explanations of vote
written explanations of vote
written explanations of vote
in writing. ‒ the request submitted by the irish government reflects the exceptional situation that the redundancies of lufthansa technik, involving 424 employees, have a serious impact on the population of the area concerned, on the employment situation. i voted in favour of the request, but at the same time i would like to draw attention to the fact that the company concerned is active on a global scale. the commission should therefore monitor whether lufthansa technik, or any other company in general, is seeking eu or other sources of aid for job creation in another country in the course of the relocation of activities.
in writing. ‒ on 6 february 2015, the commission adopted a proposal for a decision to mobilise the european globalisation adjustment fund for the benefit of ireland. its purpose was to support the reintegration into the labour market of workers made redundant as a result of changes in world trade due to globalisation. the application was sent to the commission on 19 september 2014 and found to meet the necessary conditions. the irish authorities argue that the ltai layoff wave is primarily the result of major changes in eu trade in goods and services, which in turn is the result of a technological shift towards the production of new generation aircraft and parts; a change in the wider practice of aircraft parts manufacturing, together with the impact on the fundamental market factors underlying the business model of ltai, and a change in the location of global aircraft manufacturing. the coordinated package of personalised services to be funded shall include career guidance and career planning, egf training support, training and continuing education programmes, higher education programmes, entrepreneurship/self-employment support and income support, including the egf course contribution scheme. in line with the position of the fidesz-kdnp delegation, i believe it is very important to support the motion. it is essential that redundant workers receive adequate support for their re-placement.
in writing. ‒ on 6 february 2015, the commission adopted a proposal for a decision to mobilise the european globalisation adjustment fund for ireland to support the reintegration into the labour market of workers made redundant as a result of major structural changes in world trade patterns due to globalisation. the request was sent to the commission on 19 september 2014. the commission concluded that the request exhausted the necessary exceptional circumstances. the irish authorities argue that the ltai layoffs are primarily the result of major changes in eu trade in goods and services, which in turn are the result of a technological shift towards the production of new generation aircraft and parts; a change in the wider practice of aircraft parts manufacturing, together with the impact on the fundamental market factors underlying ltai's business model, and a change in the location of global aircraft manufacturing. the coordinated package of personalised services to be funded shall include career guidance and career planning, egf training support, training and continuing education programmes, higher education programmes, entrepreneurship/self-employment support and income support, including the egf course contribution scheme. the fidesz-kdnp delegation supports the motion in solidarity. it is important that dismissed workers receive appropriate support for their reintegration into the labour market.
in writing. ‒ on 6 february 2015, the commission adopted a proposal for a decision to mobilise the european globalisation adjustment fund for ireland to support the reintegration into the labour market of workers made redundant as a result of major structural changes in world trade patterns due to globalisation. the request was sent to the commission on 19 september 2014. the commission concluded that the request exhausted the necessary exceptional circumstances. the irish authorities argue that the ltai layoffs are primarily the result of major changes in eu trade in goods and services, which in turn are the result of a technological shift towards the production of new generation aircraft and parts; a change in the wider practice of aircraft parts manufacturing, together with the impact on the fundamental market factors underlying ltai's business model, and a change in the location of global aircraft manufacturing. the coordinated package of personalised services to be funded shall include career guidance and career planning, egf training support, training and continuing education programmes, higher education programmes, entrepreneurship/self-employment support and income support, including the egf course contribution scheme. the fidesz-kdnp delegation supports the motion in solidarity. it is important that dismissed workers receive appropriate support for their reintegration into the labour market.
in writing. ‒ on 6 february 2015, the commission adopted a proposal for a decision to mobilise the european globalisation adjustment fund for ireland to support the reintegration into the labour market of workers made redundant as a result of major structural changes in world trade patterns due to globalisation. the request was sent to the commission on 19 september 2014. the commission concluded that the request exhausted the necessary exceptional circumstances. the irish authorities argue that the ltai layoffs are primarily the result of major changes in eu trade in goods and services, which in turn are the result of a technological shift towards the production of new generation aircraft and parts; a change in the wider practice of aircraft parts manufacturing, together with the impact on the fundamental market factors underlying ltai's business model, and a change in the location of global aircraft manufacturing. the coordinated package of personalised services to be funded shall include career guidance and career planning, egf training support, training and continuing education programmes, higher education programmes, entrepreneurship/self-employment support and income support, including the egf course contribution scheme. the fidesz-kdnp delegation supports the motion in solidarity. it is important that dismissed workers receive appropriate support for their reintegration into the labour market.
in writing. ‒ the european globalisation adjustment fund is an important institution of solidarity within the union; it is an active employment policy instrument that shares the burden of returning to the labour market between the worker, the member state concerned and the union, and the result helps both the worker who is able to return to work, the member state that is forced to deal with unemployment and the union that aims to increase employment. the request submitted by ireland requires assistance for the personalised service for the reintegration into the labour market of 149 workers made redundant between 1 march and 30 june 2014. the commission considers that the request fulfils the eligibility criteria set out in the regulation and that the provision of the service started well before the request was submitted. on the basis of all the above, i consider that the request should be supported.
written explanations of vote
written explanations of vote
oral explanations of vote
my colleague and friend, mr balczó, and i were very worried about how to vote on this issue. we were in an even more difficult situation than most of our fellow mps, because we as hungarians had to vote on whether the european union should give support, financial support to the ukrainian government, which we know exactly does not serve its interests, especially those of transcarpathian hungarians. at the same time, as hungarians, we know that transcarpathian hungarians are going through inhuman suffering. first, because of so-called military obligations: this is not their war, yet they have to sacrifice their sons and their husbands. and on the other hand, because of the inhumane social conditions, because of the poverty, we're basically stuck with the african, third world income ratio. we say about africa and the so-called developing countries that people have to live on one euro a day. now there are salaries and pensions of 30 euros a month something has to be done about it.
ukraine needs the support of the union. but the financial support that this parliament has just voted for is not the real, real purpose. it is entirely devoted to the imf's reform programme. at the same time, there is a social crisis in ukraine. this is the main reason why eu funding is needed. these amendments were rejected by a majority of votes cast. stabilization of ukraine would require peace first and foremost. a ceasefire is important, an end to the bloodshed, but it doesn't create lasting peace. real peace and stability should take into account the legitimate interests of all concerned, including the right of indigenous peoples to self-determination.
written explanations of vote
in writing. ‒ in view of ukraine's protracted economic and structural problems, i believe that it has submitted a well-founded request to the commission for macro-financial assistance of eur 1.8 billion. in order to achieve its european orientation, ukraine is facing a serious internal political crisis, a difficult economic situation and, in foreign policy, a protracted military conflict with many human casualties. the war in eastern ukraine, russian trade restrictions and the intensification of the gas dispute have resulted in price increases, unmanageable tax burdens and utility bills for the already weak ukrainian economy. this has led to an economic downturn, currency devaluation and a decline in international reserves, creating a significant external financing gap for 2015. the european union must therefore make rapid and effective efforts to restore and preserve stability in the country. we need an economically stable, developing ukraine, where people do not suffer, and where adequate living conditions are ensured. the objective of macro-financial assistance is to contribute to addressing serious problems in the economic and financial sphere, such as the weak balance of payments and the budgetary situation. i voted to pass the bill because it is a way to show our solidarity with a country and a people at war with a nuclear power. at the same time, the european parliament and the council can demonstrate that the union is capable of acting swiftly, decisively and in line with its political commitments.
in writing. ‒ in line with the fidesz-kdnp parliamentary group, i believe that by providing macro-financial assistance to ukraine, which we supported in today's vote, we have shown that we are not leaving the ukrainian people alone and are helping our eastern neighbour. the ukrainian people are facing not only problems caused by the war but also economic problems. the uncontrolled increase in inflation in recent times has caused difficulties in people's daily lives wages in shops are increasing many times overnight. the ukrainian economy is on the verge of bankruptcy and it is in the union's interest that this does not happen. by accepting the macro-financial assistance, the european union is contributing to the economic stability and development of ukraine and, at the same time, of the wider eastern european neighbourhood. in addition to strengthening our cross-border economic relations, it is even more significant from the hungarian point of view that by adopting the report, the fidesz meps are helping to improve the economic conditions of transcarpathian hungarians.
in writing. ‒ by accepting macro-financial assistance to ukraine, the european union is contributing to the economic stability and development of ukraine and, at the same time, of the wider eastern european neighbourhood. in addition to strengthening our cross-border economic relations, it is even more significant from the hungarian point of view that by adopting the report, the fidesz meps are helping to improve the economic conditions of transcarpathian hungarians.
in writing. ‒ as a member of the fidesz-kdnp delegation, i would like to live with the following explanation of vote. in addition to strengthening our cross-border economic relations, it is even more significant from the hungarian point of view that the fidesz meps, by adopting the report on financial assistance to ukraine, are helping to improve the economic conditions of transcarpathia hungarians.
in writing. ‒ today i voted for ukraine's chance, as the ukrainian economy is in a deep crisis, rooted in long-standing structural problems, which are further aggravated by the armed conflict in the eastern regions and the illegal russian annexation of crimea. macro-financial assistance is a specific union crisis management mechanism available to the union's partner countries facing acute balance of payments problems. it is important to note that in ukraine, we are talking about a struggle for freedom, a struggle that rejects dictatorship. the ambitious macroeconomic adjustment and structural reform programme of the government that took office in february 2014 has been supported by the imf financial assistance programme and the union's macro-financial assistance operations. the current package can also be seen as a kind of reinforcement of the fight against corruption. however, it must be ensured that the financial assistance reaches the ukrainian people and not the oligarchs, and that it cannot be allowed to be used for military purposes.
in writing. ‒ by accepting macro-financial assistance to ukraine, the european union is contributing to the economic stability and development of ukraine and, at the same time, of the wider eastern european neighbourhood. in addition to strengthening our cross-border economic relations, it is even more significant from the hungarian point of view that the adoption of the report by the hungarian meps will help improve the economic conditions of transcarpathian hungarians.
in writing. ‒ by accepting macro-financial assistance to ukraine, the european union is contributing to the economic stability and development of ukraine and, at the same time, of the wider eastern european neighbourhood. in addition to strengthening our cross-border economic relations, it is even more significant from the hungarian point of view that by adopting the report, the fidesz meps are helping to improve the economic conditions of transcarpathian hungarians.
in writing. ‒ previous financial support by the union together with the imf to the macroeconomic adjustment and structural reform programme of the ukrainian government: supported by the imf financial assistance programme and the union's macro-financial assistance operations. however, reform efforts have been hampered by the armed conflict in the country, the war without a declaration of war launched by russia, and trade restrictions. the external financing gap caused by the higher than expected economic downturn and capital outflows can only be filled by additional financial support. on the one hand, europe has an interest in the continuation of the ukrainian reform process, and on the other hand it cannot leave ukraine to suffer the consequences of russian intervention. that's why i supported the motion.
in writing. ‒ macro-financial assistance to ukraine contributes to economic stability and development in ukraine and in the wider eastern european neighbourhood. in addition to strengthening our cross-border economic relations, it is even more significant from the hungarian point of view that by adopting the report, the fidesz meps can contribute to the positive development of the economic conditions of transcarpathian hungarians.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the adoption of the report, including the mfa loan to ukraine, in agreement with the commission's proposal and the position of the eit of 19-20 march 2015. i made my decision in the knowledge that this is an unusually large sum, as the political and economic stakes are high, not only for the ukrainians but also for the eu. it is also right in itself to contribute to the stabilisation of the economy of an important neighbour and partner of the union, even if its financial stability is affected by structural or financial reasons. however, ukraine is also suffering from the ravages of war, continued economic pressure and blackmail in the energy supply sector as a target of russian expansionist ambitions that turn partner solidarity into eu solidarity, the eu's most internal affair. the expansionist ambitions of the putin regime through ukraine threaten to destabilise the whole of europe, not least in the area of economic and financial structures. the mfa loan could provide the kiev government with an effective means of circumventing this, of avoiding a financial collapse. at the same time, we must once again make our ukrainian partners aware of the importance of conditionality for the eu, in particular in terms of the consistent and effective implementation of the reform programme undertaken. it is also important to recall on the eu side the requirement that these aspects be represented in a unified and consistent manner by each member state without exception in its relations with the russian and ukrainian sides.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report because i consider it important that the european union should show its solidarity with the ukrainian government and people in the current difficult financial and economic situation of the country. i am confident that this financial assistance will act as a catalyst to support reform efforts and thus gradually restore confidence in the ukrainian economy. finally, i believe that this report reaffirms the european union's commitment to the ukrainian reform process and, more broadly, the commitment of the eu institutions to the union's objectives of economic stability and development in the eastern european neighbourhood.
oral explanations of vote
..which is a tax report, and i always find it hard to vote for a report that takes away a country's sovereignty, its right to decide. but here it was about the fact that it was true that it was a tax case, but it was about the prohibition of tax evasion. you know the lux leaks case, where the perpetrator was elected commissioner of the european union by a landslide. so this report was about preventing this kind of thing, and this kind of garage management. it would be very good if the european union could also help to help the foreign currency borrowers, as i mentioned in my previous speech, and if it intervenes in the sovereignty of countries, it should intervene in a way and with a content that would curb the various financial misdeeds on the other side and strengthen the rights and dignity of vulnerable people.
written explanations of vote
in writing. ‒ the recent debt crisis has raised a number of new problems in the european union, which require the appropriate adjustment of tax policies. in line with the fidesz-kdnp group's position, i believe that the specific proposals in the report will make significant progress in this problematic area, which is now being dealt with by a specialised committee in the european parliament. it is important to stress that the restoration of the credibility of fiscal policy and the reduction of public debt make it essential to ensure fiscal discipline, the introduction of structural reforms, while ensuring that priority is given to fiscal measures aimed at growth and encouraging the imposition of taxes that affect consumption more than labour, as these are better suited to economic growth and employment in the long term. as the issue of double taxation and tax avoidance continues to be a major problem and a significant budgetary cost for the european union, we call for an urgent solution to these problems by voting in favour of this measure, and in line with the action plan published by the commission.
in writing. ‒ the recent debt crisis has raised a number of new problems in the european union, which require the appropriate adjustment of tax policies. in line with the fidesz-kdnp group's position, i believe that the specific proposals in the report will make significant progress in this problematic area, which is now being dealt with by a specialised committee in the european parliament. it is important to stress that the restoration of the credibility of fiscal policy and the reduction of public debt make it essential to ensure fiscal discipline and the introduction of structural reforms, while ensuring that priority is given to fiscal measures aimed at growth and that taxation that affects consumption more than labour is encouraged, as these are better suited to economic growth and employment in the long term. as the issue of double taxation and tax avoidance continues to be a major problem and a significant budgetary cost for the european union, we call for an urgent solution to these problems by voting in favour of this measure, and in line with the action plan published by the commission.
in writing. ‒ the recent debt crisis has raised a number of new problems in the european union, which require the appropriate adjustment of tax policies. in line with the fidesz-kdnp group's position, i believe that the specific proposals in the report will make significant progress in this problematic area, which is now being dealt with by a specialised committee in the european parliament. it is important to stress that the restoration of the credibility of fiscal policy and the reduction of public debt make it essential to ensure fiscal discipline and the introduction of structural reforms, while ensuring that priority is given to fiscal measures aimed at growth and that taxation is encouraged in favour of taxes that affect consumption more than labour and that are better suited to economic growth and employment in the long term. as the issue of double taxation and tax avoidance continues to be a major problem and a significant budgetary cost for the european union, we call for an urgent solution to these problems by voting in favour of this measure, and in line with the action plan published by the commission.
in writing. ‒ as a member of the fidesz-kdnp group, i believe, in line with the delegation's position, that the report's targeted proposals will make significant progress in this problematic area, which is now being dealt with by a special committee in the european parliament. the recent debt crisis has raised a number of new problems in the european union, which require a corresponding adjustment of tax policies. it is important to stress that the restoration of the credibility of fiscal policy and the reduction of public debt make it essential to ensure fiscal discipline and the introduction of structural reforms, while ensuring that priority is given to fiscal measures aimed at growth and that taxation is encouraged in favour of taxes that affect consumption more than labour and that are better suited to economic growth and employment in the long term.
in writing. ‒ the recent debt crisis has raised a number of new problems in the european union, which require the appropriate adjustment of tax policies. in line with the fidesz-kdnp group's position, i believe that the specific proposals in the report will make significant progress in this problematic area, which is now being dealt with by a specialised committee in the european parliament. it is important to stress that the restoration of the credibility of fiscal policy and the reduction of public debt make it essential to ensure fiscal discipline and the introduction of structural reforms, while ensuring that priority is given to fiscal measures aimed at growth and that taxation is encouraged in favour of taxes that affect consumption more than labour and that are better suited to economic growth and employment in the long term. as the issue of double taxation and tax avoidance continues to be a major problem and a significant budgetary cost for the european union, we call for an urgent solution to these problems by voting in favour of this measure, and in line with the action plan published by the commission.
in writing. ‒ the recent debt crisis has raised a number of new problems in the european union, which require the appropriate adjustment of tax policies. in line with the fidesz-kdnp group's position, i believe that the specific proposals in the report will make significant progress in this problematic area, which is now being dealt with by a specialised committee in the european parliament. it is important to stress that the restoration of the credibility of fiscal policy and the reduction of public debt make it essential to ensure fiscal discipline and the introduction of structural reforms, while ensuring that priority is given to fiscal measures aimed at growth and that taxation that affects consumption more than labour is encouraged, as these are better suited to economic growth and employment in the long term. as the issue of double taxation and tax avoidance continues to be a major problem and a significant budgetary cost for the european union, we call for an urgent solution to these problems by voting in favour of this measure, and in line with the action plan published by the commission.
in writing. ‒ the recent debt crisis has raised a number of new problems in the european union, which require the appropriate adjustment of tax policies. in line with the fidesz-kdnp group's position, i believe that the specific proposals in the report will make significant progress in this problematic area, which is now being dealt with by a specialised committee in the european parliament. it is important to stress that the restoration of the credibility of fiscal policy and the reduction of public debt make it essential to ensure fiscal discipline and the introduction of structural reforms, while ensuring that priority is given to fiscal measures aimed at growth and that taxation that affects consumption more than labour is encouraged, as these are better suited to economic growth and employment in the long term. as the issue of double taxation and tax avoidance continues to be a major problem and a significant budgetary cost for the european union, we call for an urgent solution to these problems by voting in favour of this measure, and in line with the action plan published by the commission.
in writing. ‒ tax evasion and avoidance is estimated to generate €1 trillion in tax revenue in the eu each year, increasing the burden on citizens and businesses who pay fair taxes and hampering investment support, thus job creation and growth. the fight against tax fraud, tax evasion, tax avoidance, aggressive tax planning and tax havens is therefore in the common interest of the member states and their citizens. that's why i supported the motion.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the adoption of the annual tax report. i myself agree with the holistic approach to taxation, which can be a real practical tool to stimulate growth and deepen economic and monetary union. but i'd like to focus on one thing. i agree that securing the revenue fund is an important part of the budget's sustainability. this requires effectively the elimination of tax evasion in the member states, the elimination of tax fraud and tax avoidance schemes and the fight against aggressive tax planning and tax havens. however, the european parliament must also take into account in future the loss of tax revenue and the degree of strengthening of the black and/or grey economy caused by over-taxation of certain sectors or products in certain member states. i will give just one example: in my country, hungary, the highest vat rate is 27%, which also affects a significant group of basic foods. i am convinced that such distortions of the tax systems of individual member states do not serve the tax policy interests of the union.
in writing. the revision of the 2014-2020 multiannual financial framework is essential to allow member states to spend the eu funds not used in 2014 this year. the smooth continuation of cohesion policy and rural development programmes in 2015 is particularly important for hungary, where six out of seven regions are considered to be disadvantaged. unfortunately, the current hungarian government has only managed to wrestle away eu aid that could be used to make up for two billion euros less than governments before 2010. nevertheless, in the context of cohesion policy, about 95% of public investment in hungary over the last five years has been made from eu funds. cohesion policy cannot therefore lose out in budgetary debates! in order to achieve the real objective of cohesion policy, which is to bring disadvantaged regions closer to the european average and raise living standards, the conditions for use need to be made more flexible in the next budgetary period. it is important that member states pay particular attention to increasing renewable energy and energy efficiency and to supporting small and medium-sized enterprises, which account for two thirds of european jobs, in order to reduce regional disparities. it is unfortunate that the current hungarian government is currently seriously lagging behind in all three areas.
in writing. the european structural and investment funds are the most important element of the union's investment policy. it is in the fundamental interest of the european community that all resources are used in the most timely and efficient way possible to stimulate growth and create jobs. i myself consider it important that the previous period can be closed without the member states losing resources because of various administrative delays. at the same time, i must draw the attention of my colleagues and the commission to the fact that we must not only look at the use of the structural and investment funds. as a european democrat and representative of the hungarian people, i am sorry that there are several eu budgets available that could help, among other things, to eliminate unemployment and to re-train those who are temporarily unemployed, but the hungarian government has not yet called up a single euro cent. it is in the interest of all of us, of europe as a whole, that the member states use all the instruments available to them effectively and with meaning to reduce unemployment. i therefore propose that, in addition to facilitating the use of the structural funds, the use and availability of the other funds should also be examined and, if necessary, facilitated.
mr. president, i extend my fraternal solidarity to the armenian communities in hungary and romania, who were expelled from their homeland, in memory of the victims of the genocide in turkey 100 years ago. holocaust denial is punishable by law in many countries. on the other hand, the atrocities of the communist dictatorship are denied, minimized, or relativized by many, and the perpetrators themselves refuse to acknowledge the historical fact of the armenian genocide. these crimes against humanity cannot be allowed to be treated with a double standard. in the spirit of justice and fairness and in the interest of historic reconciliation between turks and armenians, we must name and firmly condemn the atrocity of the "endlösung" aimed at the total annihilation of the armenians in turkey. let this be a reminder to us of the mass murder of christians by the islamic state.
(ppe) the madam president, back in december last year i wrote to the commission asking how many people with disabilities are employed by the institutions of the european union. however, the commission was not able to provide any precise data on the number of employees with disabilities or the nature of their disabilities. the figure you heard was based on voluntary data, so it's not official. i welcome the commission's statement and was pleased to hear that it intends to deal with this issue. however, i believe that both in the member states and in the institutions of the european union, there is a need for quotas and standards for the employment of people with disabilities until such time as the employment of these people becomes natural in society. that's not the case today. i therefore call on the commission to examine as soon as possible the good practices in the member states and to transpose them into the specifications of the european union's institutional system, and of course to show these examples to the other member states. in conclusion, i would like to point out that the european union is a signatory to the un convention on the rights of persons with disabilities, which sets out clear guidelines on how we can help, and more specifically promote, the employment of people with disabilities. this is also an obligation for the union institutions. in conclusion, there are many good examples in the member states of the union, such as hungary. the number of disabled employees has doubled in recent years, thanks to quota regulations and other financial and tax incentives. i say that we need to develop a new strategy in this direction.
it's a two-card draw. i would like to ask the honourable member if we have understood correctly: do you want the other measures you have specified to go beyond the quota or do you want them instead of the quotas?
in writing. my delegation asked the european commission in december last year how many people with disabilities are employed in the eu institutions. the commission is ready to take concrete steps to achieve social inclusion. i believe it is very important that the commission examine as soon as possible the good practices of the member states in the field of positive discrimination, accessibility of jobs and the use of various subsidies or benefits, and that it makes it mandatory to apply the best practices within the institutions of the european union. hungary is a good example of how a combination of a quota system, targeted subsidies and tax incentives can help to increase the number of people with disabilities who can take up work. although there is still a lot to be done in our own country, i believe that hungary and several other member states, where the quota system has already been introduced, can already show the way to the eu.
mr president, you all know that after paris, all over europe, european governments have felt the need to protect their citizens. the threat of terrorism, governments say, is a threat to all of us, and that is why various measures are needed. among these measures, governments, or at least several governments, consider that one of the most important is the exchange of data and records on air passengers. i think this is an important initiative, but at the same time i think that this important initiative must not lead to the abandonment of the fundamental rights on which the european union, the european community, is founded. we need to respect privacy, protect personal data and provide effective remedies. and at least since i saw john oliver on television on last week tonight, where he interviewed edward snowden, who talked about how this data is being moved between ireland and the united states, i've been skeptical, at least, about whether these results, these passenger logs, actually respect fundamental human rights. regardless, i think it's very important that mexico wants to join this convention, i think it's important that we take this seriously, that we start the negotiations as soon as possible, as soon as possible to get results. at the same time, we must not conclude or sign agreements which do not comply with european law, european laws and european standards. so i think it is very important to wait for the legal procedure on the agreement between the european union and canada to be concluded, to have a credible outcome, a legally clear, clear, clear position, and then we can conclude the agreement with other countries outside europe. we must not forget that we cannot afford, politically or morally, to exploit people's fears, to use people's fears to deprive them of their basic human rights.
it's a two-card draw. i would like to address this question to you as the head of the parliament's delegation to the eu-mexico joint parliamentary committee. i understand that everyone who heads such delegations is committed to the issues of the relationship, but are you sure, representative, that at this moment, this agreement is sufficiently fortified?
mr president, the european union expects the strategic investment fund to boost its economy on a large scale. economic growth is not a value in itself, which is why it is important that job creation is a priority. in the eu, 67% of jobs are created by smes. that's why they need to be given priority support. we were pleased to read that the commission's draft legislation aims to make better access to finance more favourable to smes. however, the next sentence states that it is appropriate to extend this to companies with up to 3000 employees. in other words, by using this phrase, he is in effect defining the category of medium-sized enterprises as having three thousand employees instead of two hundred and fifty, and it thus appears that genuine support for genuine smes will remain a slogan, a phrase.
mr president, last autumn, in this forum, i drew attention to the way in which the romanian intelligence service, in a completely unauthorized manner, with the intention of intimidation, declared war on the hungarians of transylvania and the hungarian region of szeklerland's autonomy. this spring, the romanian ministry of the interior's public security strategy plan criminalized hungarian minority autonomy by identifying racism, xenophobia, extremism and all forms of intolerance aimed at achieving ethnic autonomy as the number one threat to the security of citizens. i would like to ask the european parliament once again to give us moral and political protection in our legitimate and peaceful struggle for democratic minority self-determination against the romanian secret service, which is continuing the notorious tradition of the securitate of ceaușescu.
mr president, the protracted economic crisis has clearly shown how fragile the european financial system is in certain situations. this is why the european union has put in place a number of measures to guarantee the safety of its citizens. one of the most important steps was the strengthening and harmonisation of financial supervisory systems within the euro area. however, the inadequate functioning of supervisory systems is a particular problem in a number of non-euro area member states, including hungary and, more specifically, albania. in recent weeks, two major companies in my country have had to suspend their operations: the first is buda cash, which is suspected of having falsified its reports for years, and the second is questor, which is suspected of having issued bonds worth up to 150 billion forints, or almost half a billion euros, without authorization and collateral. the hungarian national bank, which has recently been responsible for the state supervision of financial institutions in orban, has clearly failed in this activity. i believe that the european commission's failure to act as guardian of the treaties has contributed greatly to this situation.
in writing. ‒ the creation of the european globalisation adjustment fund has so far proved to be a highly important tool for workers affected by the consequences of major structural changes in world trade or made redundant as a result of the global financial and economic crisis. in my experience, the subsidies granted so far have helped the redundant workers to re-enter the labour market. the french government's request is in line with the criteria laid down when the fund was set up, and i therefore supported its adoption in line with the position of the fidesz-kdnp group.
in writing. ‒ on 23 february 2015, the commission adopted a proposal for a decision to mobilise the european globalisation adjustment fund for france to support the reintegration into the labour market of workers made redundant by mory-ducros as a result of the global financial and economic crisis. the redundancies were made in 84 plants in france. according to the french authorities, the redundancies at mory-ducros were caused by the bankruptcy and liquidation of the company. the commission notes that the french authorities have not provided any evidence that the measure is imputable to the state. between 2007 and 2012, as a result of the global financial and economic crisis, road freight transport by vehicles over 3,5 tonnes decreased by 13,7% in the eu and by 21% in france. the personalised services to be provided to redundant workers comprise the following single measure: counselling and guidance for redundant workers. the fidesz-kdnp delegation supports the motion in solidarity. it is important that dismissed workers receive appropriate support for their reintegration into the labour market.
in writing. on 23 february 2015, the commission adopted a proposal for a decision to mobilise the european globalisation adjustment fund for france to support the reintegration into the labour market of workers made redundant by mory-ducros as a result of the global financial and economic crisis. the redundancies were made in 84 plants in france. according to the french authorities, the redundancies at mory-ducros were caused by the bankruptcy and liquidation of the company. the commission notes that the french authorities have not provided any evidence that the measure is imputable to the state. between 2007 and 2012, as a result of the global financial and economic crisis, road freight transport by vehicles over 3,5 tonnes decreased by 13,7% in the eu and by 21% in france. the personalised services to be provided to redundant workers comprise the following single measure: counselling and guidance for redundant workers. the fidesz-kdnp delegation supports the motion in solidarity. it is important that dismissed workers receive appropriate support for their reintegration into the labour market.
in writing. ‒ the european globalisation adjustment fund was established to provide additional support to workers affected by the consequences of major structural changes in world trade. as regards the procedure, in accordance with point 13 of the interinstitutional agreement between the european parliament, the council and the commission on budgetary discipline, on cooperation in budgetary matters and on sound financial management, in order to activate the fund, the commission shall in the event of a positive assessment of the application submit to the budgetary authority a proposal for mobilisation of the fund and at the same time submit the corresponding request for conversion. i voted in favour of the resolution because i believe that in the absence of agreement, the trilateral negotiations should be started immediately. i welcome the fact that, by internal agreement, the employment and social affairs committee should be involved in the process to provide constructive support and to contribute to the assessment of applications to the fund.
in writing. ‒ on 23 february 2015, the commission adopted a proposal for a decision to mobilise the european globalisation adjustment fund for france to support the reintegration into the labour market of workers made redundant by mory-ducros as a result of the global financial and economic crisis. the redundancies were made in 84 plants in france. according to the french authorities, the redundancies at mory-ducros were caused by the bankruptcy and liquidation of the company. the commission notes that the french authorities have not provided any evidence that the measure is imputable to the state. between 2007 and 2012, as a result of the global financial and economic crisis, road freight transport by vehicles over 3,5 tonnes decreased by 13,7% in the eu and by 21% in france. the personalised services to be provided to redundant workers comprise the following single measure: counselling and guidance for redundant workers. the fidesz-kdnp delegation supports the motion in solidarity. it is important that dismissed workers receive appropriate support for their reintegration into the labour market.
in writing. ‒ on 23 february 2015, the commission adopted a proposal for a decision to mobilise the european globalisation adjustment fund for france to support the reintegration into the labour market of workers made redundant by mory-ducros as a result of the global financial and economic crisis. the redundancies were made in 84 plants in france. according to the french authorities, the redundancies at mory-ducros were caused by the bankruptcy and liquidation of the company. the commission notes that the french authorities have not provided any evidence that the measure is imputable to the state. between 2007 and 2012, as a result of the global financial and economic crisis, road freight transport by vehicles over 3,5 tonnes decreased by 13,7% in the eu and by 21% in france. the personalised services to be provided to redundant workers comprise the following single measure: counselling and guidance for redundant workers. the fidesz-kdnp delegation supports the motion in solidarity. it is important that dismissed workers receive appropriate support for their reintegration into the labour market.
in writing. ‒ the european globalisation adjustment fund is an important institution of solidarity within the union; it is an active employment policy instrument that shares the burden of returning to the labour market between the worker, the member state concerned and the union, and the result helps both the worker who is able to return to work, the member state that is forced to deal with unemployment and the union that aims to increase employment. between 2007 and 2012, as a result of the global financial and economic crisis, road freight transport by vehicles over 3,5 tonnes decreased by 13,7% in the eu and by 21% in france. in parallel with the decrease in the quantities to be transported, a price war broke out within the sector, the various costs increased, which resulted in a continuous narrowing of the operating margin. as a result, the french transport company mory-ducros went bankrupt and was liquidated. 2804 workers were made redundant, of whom 2513 are in active labour market. on the basis of all the above, i consider that the request should be supported.
in writing. ‒ in its conclusions on strengthening cooperation to modernise and improve social protection, the council supported the commission's proposal to establish a mechanism for implementing this measure in the context of enhanced cooperation based on the work of the high level group of officials. the council stressed that this cooperation should cover all forms of social protection and, where necessary, help member states to further develop and strengthen their social protection systems in line with their national priorities. of course, the organisation and financing of social protection remains a matter for the member states, and this is unchanged. i voted in favour of the resolution because it is very important that all objectives should be covered by uniform funding criteria.
in writing. ‒ the draft council decision aims to set up a social protection committee of an advisory nature to facilitate the coordination of social protection policies between the member states and the commission. i consider the council's initiative to be justified in the light of the social tensions caused by the economic crisis and the union's social objectives.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the decision to establish the social protection committee because i consider it important to modernise social protection systems in a comprehensive way, also in order to ensure high quality and sustainable healthcare for all. i also agree with the point in the draft which stresses that we should create the possibility of better coordination in employment and social policy and socioeconomic policy, while fully respecting the competences of the member states. the draft also addresses the need for a more effective monitoring system that takes account of the social and labour market situation within the gmu, using appropriate social and employment indicators in the context of the european semester.
in writing. ‒ in its conclusions on strengthening cooperation to modernise and improve social protection, the council supported the commission's proposal to establish a mechanism for implementing this measure in the context of enhanced cooperation based on the work of the high level group of officials. the council stressed that this cooperation should cover all forms of social protection and, where necessary, help member states to further develop and strengthen their social protection systems in line with their national priorities. of course, the organisation and financing of social protection remains a matter for the member states, and this is unchanged. i voted in favour of the resolution because it is very important that all objectives should be covered by uniform funding criteria.
in writing. ‒ under article 5 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union, the union shall take action to coordinate the employment policies of the member states by developing a coordinated employment strategy, in particular by helping to increase their effectiveness by developing a skilled, trained and adaptable workforce and labour markets that are adaptable to economic change. the draft council decision provides for the setting-up of an advisory committee on employment to help coordinate the employment and labour market policies of the member states. i consider the council's initiative to be justified in the light of the current employment situation and the employment objectives of the union.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the draft to establish the employment committee, as i believe that the amendments will make it more effective to coordinate employment strategies at eu level. the adopted draft will enable the eu institutions to work on the basis of these harmonised principles and to develop proposals on their basis, in particular with regard to the skilled and trained workforce. in future, the commission should also consult the social partners more intensively, which will certainly lead to stronger controls in the field of employment policy. finally, i think it is important to highlight the work done by the european parliament in the consultation procedure, which i believe contributes to making the legislative process more effective in a way that is also tangible to the electorate.
in writing. ‒ although the amendment seems to be a formal act, i attach great importance to the fact that the budgetary resources of the european union are used in full in accordance with the objectives originally set. in line with the position of fidesz/kdnp, i voted in favour of the amendment of the multiannual financial framework for the period 2014-2020.
in writing. ‒ the delay in adopting the cohesion policy regulations for the period 2014-2020 has prevented all operational programmes from being adopted in time. the commission's forecast proved too optimistic, as only a small percentage of programmes (39%) had been adopted by the end of 2014. the adoption of the remaining programmes was deferred, partly by the transfer procedure provided for in the financial regulation and partly by the amendment of the multiannual financial framework. the proposal aims to transfer almost all unused budgetary appropriations from 2014 under subheading 1b to 2015. in line with the position of the fidesz-kdnp group, i support the proposal for a council regulation amending regulation (eu, euratom) no 1311/2020 on the multiannual financial framework for the period 2013-2014. we propose that parliament gives its consent, as this is an essential step in closing the process of launching the programming period for the new cohesion policy. the european structural funds are the most important element of the union's investment policy and it is essential that all resources are used in the most timely and efficient manner possible to stimulate growth and job creation. the new programming period has already been subject to significant delays and it is necessary to ensure that no further delays or losses occur.
in writing. due to the delay in adopting the cohesion policy regulations for the period 2014-2020, it was not possible to adopt all the operational programmes in time. the commission's forecast proved too optimistic, as only a small percentage of programmes (39%) had been adopted by the end of 2014. the adoption of the remaining programmes was deferred, partly by the transfer procedure provided for in the financial regulation and partly by the amendment of the multiannual financial framework. the proposal aims to transfer almost all unused budgetary appropriations from 2014 under subheading 1b to 2015. in line with the position of the fidesz-kdnp group, i support the proposal for a council regulation amending regulation (eu, euratom) no 1311/2020 on the multiannual financial framework for the period 2013-2014. we propose that parliament gives its consent, as this is an essential step in closing the process of launching the programming period for the new cohesion policy. the european structural funds are the most important element of the union's investment policy and it is essential that all resources are used in the most timely and efficient manner possible to stimulate growth and job creation. the new programming period has already been subject to significant delays and it is necessary to ensure that no further delays or losses occur.
in writing. ‒ in line with the position of the fidesz-kdnp group, i support the proposal for a council regulation amending regulation (eu, euratom) no 1311/2020 on the multiannual financial framework for the period 2013-2014. we propose that parliament gives its consent, as this is an essential step in closing the process of launching the programming period for the new cohesion policy. the european structural funds are the most important element of the union's investment policy and it is essential that all resources are used in the most timely and efficient manner possible to stimulate growth and job creation. the new programming period has already been subject to significant delays and it is necessary to ensure that no further delays or losses occur.
in writing. ‒ the delay in adopting the cohesion policy regulations for the period 2014-2020 has prevented all operational programmes from being adopted in time. the commission's forecast proved too optimistic, as only a small percentage of programmes had been adopted by the end of 2014. the adoption of the remaining programmes was deferred, partly by the transfer procedure provided for in article 13 (2) (a) of the financial regulation and partly by the amendment of the multiannual financial framework. i welcome the proposal for a council regulation amending regulation (eu, euratom) no 1311/2020 on the multiannual financial framework for the period 2013 to 2014. the resolution proposes that parliament give its consent, as this is an essential step to enable the process of launching the programming period for the new cohesion policy to be closed to regions and cities, and therefore without disadvantage to european citizens. the european structural and investment funds are the most important elements of the union's investment policy and it is essential that all resources are used in the most timely and efficient manner possible to stimulate growth and job creation. i believe that the new programming period has already been subject to considerable delays and that it is necessary to ensure that there are no further delays or losses, and i have therefore voted in favour of the proposal.
in writing. ‒ the delay in adopting the cohesion policy regulations for the period 2014-2020 has prevented all operational programmes from being adopted in time. the commission's forecast proved too optimistic, as only a small percentage of programmes (39%) had been adopted by the end of 2014. the adoption of the remaining programmes was deferred, partly by the transfer procedure provided for in the financial regulation and partly by the amendment of the multiannual financial framework. the proposal aims to transfer almost all unused budgetary appropriations from 2014 under subheading 1b to 2015. in line with the position of the fidesz-kdnp group, i support the proposal for a council regulation amending regulation (eu, euratom) no 1311/2020 on the multiannual financial framework for the period 2013-2014. we propose that parliament gives its consent, as this is an essential step in closing the process of launching the programming period for the new cohesion policy. the european structural funds are the most important element of the union's investment policy and it is essential that all resources are used in the most timely and efficient manner possible to stimulate growth and job creation. the new programming period has already been subject to significant delays and it is necessary to ensure that no further delays or losses occur.
in writing. ‒ the delay in adopting the cohesion policy regulations for the period 2014-2020 has prevented all operational programmes from being adopted in time. the commission's forecast proved too optimistic, as only a small percentage of programmes (39%) had been adopted by the end of 2014. the adoption of the remaining programmes was deferred, partly by the transfer procedure provided for in the financial regulation and partly by the amendment of the multiannual financial framework. the proposal aims to transfer almost all unused budgetary appropriations from 2014 under subheading 1b to 2015. in line with the position of the fidesz-kdnp group, i support the proposal for a council regulation amending regulation (eu, euratom) no 1311/2020 on the multiannual financial framework for the period 2013-2014. we propose that parliament gives its consent, as this is an essential step in closing the process of launching the programming period for the new cohesion policy. the european structural funds are the most important element of the union's investment policy and it is essential that all resources are used in the most timely and efficient manner possible to stimulate growth and job creation. the new programming period has already been subject to significant delays and it is necessary to ensure that no further delays or losses occur.
in writing. ‒ the delay in adopting the cohesion policy regulations for the period 2014-2020 has prevented all operational programmes from being adopted in time. the commission's forecast proved too optimistic, as only a small percentage of programmes (39%) had been adopted by the end of 2014. the adoption of the remaining programmes was deferred, partly by the transfer procedure provided for in the financial regulation and partly by the amendment of the multiannual financial framework. the proposal aims to transfer almost all unused budgetary appropriations from 2014 under subheading 1b to 2015. in line with the position of the fidesz-kdnp group, i support the proposal for a council regulation amending regulation (eu, euratom) no 1311/2020 on the multiannual financial framework for the period 2013-2014. we propose that parliament gives its consent, as this is an essential step in closing the process of launching the programming period for the new cohesion policy. the european structural funds are the most important element of the union's investment policy and it is essential that all resources are used in the most timely and efficient manner possible to stimulate growth and job creation. the new programming period has already been subject to significant delays and it is necessary to ensure that no further delays or losses occur.
in writing. ‒ the draft council regulation allows for the transfer and subsequent use of some eur 21 billion unused from the various union funds until 2014. the draft shall not be adopted without the consent of the european parliament.
in writing. ‒ the european structural and investment funds are the most important element of the union's investment policy. it is essential that all resources are used in the most timely and efficient way possible to stimulate growth and create jobs. that is why i voted in favour of the report, as i consider it important that the previous programming period can be closed without member states losing resources due to various administrative delays.
mr president, i voted in support of this resolution because it must serve as another reminder of where excessive nationalism can lead, and also as a warning that nowadays extreme right xenophobic, anti-semitic, anti-roma or ethnic violent nationalism directed against other nations and national minorities is spreading in europe, often tolerated and even supported by political leaders and governments. i would have preferred the aspect of the danger of reviving nationalism to have been reflected more strongly in the text. nevertheless, i believe that in this resolution parliament is sending a sufficiently clear and alarming signal to all affected governments and political forces.
in writing. ‒ turkey must acknowledge the historical fact of the armenian genocide, because this can create the basis for a real reconciliation. the resolution also calls on the eu to take action to combat terrorism and to ensure that the eu is able to take action to combat terrorism. we call on armenia and turkey to follow the example of successful reconciliations between european nations and to settle their relations by unconditional ratification and implementation of the protocols on the establishment of diplomatic relations, the opening of the border and the effective improvement of their relations. i also welcome the statement by the president of the republic of turkey and the prime minister of turkey expressing their condolences and acknowledging the atrocities committed against the armenians in the ottoman empire. the ep now urges turkey to 'consider the commemoration of the centenary of the armenian genocide as an opportunity to reconcile with its own past', for example by opening its archives, and 'to recognise the armenian genocide, thus creating the possibility of genuine reconciliation between the turkish and armenian peoples'. parliament also proposed the establishment of an international day of remembrance of the genocide, recalling that all peoples and nations throughout the world have the right to peace and dignity.
in writing. ‒ the draft resolution commemorates the centenary of the armenian genocide and calls on turkey and armenia to reconcile, to settle their relations, and to open the border between the two countries. it also stresses the importance of the timely prevention and effective punishment of genocide and crimes against humanity. i agree with the proposed resolution.
in writing. the resolution commemorates the genocide of the armenian people in the first world war and the memory of the victims. encourages turkey to use the upcoming centenary to process the past and urges it to allow unhindered access to the entire archive of events. the resolution is designed to draw attention to the dangers of ethnic hatred and violence and to promote reconciliation between the turkish and armenian peoples, which is why i support it.
in writing. ‒ as a member of the hungarian people's party delegation, i consider it particularly important that the roma holocaust be recognised more widely in europe. while not all member states have yet formally recognised the roma holocaust, the european parliament resolution expresses its recognition at eu level. the international roma holocaust remembrance day (2 august) is an official day of remembrance in hungary. the european union has started to fulfil the tasks that lie ahead. during hungary's eu presidency in 2011, the member states adopted the european roma strategy. the main objective is to promote the integration of roma into society and to reduce anti-gypsyism. this is one of the major challenges of european politics today and also one of the most promising opportunities for europe.
in writing. ‒ as a member of the hungarian people's party delegation, i consider it particularly important that the roma holocaust be recognised more widely in europe. while not all member states have yet formally recognised the roma genocide, the european parliament's decision expresses its recognition at eu level. international roma holocaust remembrance day, august 2, is an official day of remembrance in hungary. the european union has started to fulfil the tasks that lie ahead. during hungary's eu presidency in 2011, the member states adopted the european roma strategy. the main objective is to promote the integration of roma into society and to reduce anti-gypsyism. this is a major challenge for european politics today and a major opportunity for europe.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution on the recognition by the european parliament of the roma holocaust during the second world war. in hungary, the official day of remembrance is the international roma holocaust remembrance day on 2 august. the roma holocaust, the porrajmos, is still little known today, despite the fact that it claimed the lives of 500,000 roma and sinti. the european parliament has adopted a resolution on the roma holocaust, which is a recognition of the roma holocaust at eu level, although not all member states have yet formally recognised it.
in writing. ‒ as a member of the hungarian people's party delegation, i consider it particularly important to recognise the roma holocaust in europe as widely as possible. while not all member states have yet formally recognised the roma holocaust, the european parliament resolution expresses its recognition at eu level. the international roma holocaust remembrance day (2 august) is an official day of remembrance in hungary. the european union has started to fulfil the tasks that lie ahead. during hungary's eu presidency in 2011, the member states adopted the european roma strategy. the main objective is to promote the integration of roma into society and to reduce anti-gypsyism. achieving this is one of the major challenges of european politics today, and also one of the most promising opportunities for europe.
in writing. ‒ as a member of the hungarian people's party delegation, i consider it particularly important that the roma holocaust be recognised more widely in europe. while not all member states have yet formally recognised the roma holocaust, the european parliament resolution expresses its recognition at eu level. the international roma holocaust remembrance day (2 august) is an official day of remembrance in hungary. the european union has started to fulfil the tasks that lie ahead. during hungary's eu presidency in 2011, the member states adopted the european roma strategy. the main objective is to promote the integration of roma into society and to reduce anti-gypsyism. this is one of the major challenges of european politics today and also one of the most promising opportunities for europe.
in writing. ‒ as a member of the hungarian people's party delegation, i consider it particularly important that the roma holocaust be recognised more widely in europe. while not all member states have yet formally recognised the roma holocaust, the european parliament resolution expresses its recognition at eu level. the international roma holocaust remembrance day (2 august) is an official day of remembrance in hungary. the european union has started to fulfil the tasks that lie ahead. during hungary's eu presidency in 2011, the member states adopted the european roma strategy. the main objective is to promote the integration of roma into society and to reduce anti-gypsyism. this is one of the major challenges of european politics today and also one of the most promising opportunities for europe.
in writing. ‒ the draft, on the occasion of international roma day, recognises the historical fact of the roma genocide during the second world war and calls on the member states to do the same. it opposes all forms of discrimination and racism against roma, recognises roma as part of a common european culture and values and calls on the member states to implement council framework decision 2008/913/jha of 28 november 2008 on combating certain forms and manifestations of racism and xenophobia by means of criminal law. i support the bill completely.
in writing. i think it is important that the european parliament takes a stand on this important issue. roma in europe face continuous discrimination in all areas of daily life: education, employment, healthcare. it's our job as members of parliament to do something about it. i consider it a worthy step that parliament proposes to declare august 2nd as the roma holocaust remembrance day, as this terrible act oppresses the conscience of all of us, and i am deeply ashamed that the hungarian authorities were also present at that time as perpetrators of this terrible event. we need to call attention to the fact that hatred, discrimination, racism is still present today. that's why i support the resolution.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution because i consider it important that the european parliament draws attention to the dangers of hostile, exclusionary rhetoric, economic, social and labour discrimination that still affects our fellow roma citizens, who are a significant minority in several eu countries. the commemoration of the genocide of the roma during world war ii may awaken the responsible governmental and political factors that the inculcation and encouragement of such extremist ideas may lead to national tragedies, ethnic cleansing. however, i do not consider the debate on the naming of the mass and systematic killing of roma to be relevant in the context of this resolution, and therefore my vote cannot be considered a resolution on this issue. the holocaust is not a relativistic term, but rather a term that underlines the tragedy of the jews, the greatest and most dramatic genocide in european and world history, and this parliament's resolution can serve as a reminder of this to the european public. politically and historically, i would consider it most correct and appropriate to use terms in the roma language, which differ from one region to another (e.g. in parts of central europe and the balkans, the terms "porajmos", "pharrajimos", etc.) in the relevant political texts.
my starting point is that the single market and the services it provides should operate in the same way in an emergency. of course, we must also consider our rights. i'd like to thank the reporter for doing a very good job. this is a very thorough, mature file. i remember in 2012, when we drafted the first resolution. i also remember how many presentations we've had since then, how many experts we've heard. i think that those who brought this up have done a very thorough job. in an emergency, there is a real need for a system that is mandatory and cannot be switched off. there are many accident situations where the driver is stuck, loses consciousness or simply has no reception and the automatic system has to be activated. so i can support the system of making it compulsory for all types of vehicles to be used in the same way in all member states - free of charge, of course. i think it's not a cheap development, which is why it's very important that we have a uniform appearance on every vehicle, on every deck of every vehicle with this call system. there's plenty of time to get the final smoothing done on the system by 2018. i think this system is going to save lives, many, many tens of thousands of lives. our job is to create a system of care, and i'm happy to support that system.
in writing. every year, between 25 and 30 000 people die in accidents on europe's roads, and about 1.5 million are injured. that is why i am delighted that this important topic has finally been brought to the plenary and that after a decade, the 112-based ecall system can become a reality. this will help to save lives and bring us closer to our goal of reducing the number of fatalities and fatal accidents on the roads of the union. i cannot agree with those who oppose the introduction of the system on the grounds of the protection of personal data for two reasons. first of all, because to me, every life that we save is worth taking care of and bringing in. and that puts all other data protection laws on the back burner. on the other hand, i don't understand the comments about the vehicle identification. we all use gps every day, just like we use our cell phones. they can also identify your current location or even your driving habits. besides, it won't save any lives, it'll just make our journey easier. shouldn't we then value ecall more, which can save hundreds of lives a year, while significantly reducing the lasting damage to those affected by accidents, by providing timely alerts and assistance? moreover, the system would be free of charge and accessible to every driver in europe, and not least would result in significant financial savings. that's why i support the initiative.
in writing. i welcome the fact that what we have been working towards for years may finally become a reality: our cars manufactured after october this year will automatically contact the nearest 112 call centre in the event of an accident, saving up to 40 000 lives and preventing 150 000 people from becoming seriously disabled each year. the great advantage of the automated e-call system built into cars is that it will be accessible to everyone, even if the driver of the vehicle is disabled, because the system will communicate independently with the 112 centre via a wireless connection. as early as 2011, i asked the european commission in a written statement to come forward with legislative and standardisation proposals to make 112 fully accessible to all citizens and to facilitate the development of the next generation of fully accessible and reliable 112 services, independent of devices and networks, based on the concept of simultaneous communication. the commission shall be assisted by the european parliament. the commission shall be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 26 to supplement this regulation by laying down detailed rules for the application of this regulation. i also raised my voice so that in the event that the car does not initiate an automatic e-call for help, but the driver deems it necessary, he can activate the system manually and thus, even in the event of a minor accident, the passengers in the car can receive help. now that the european parliament has adopted this legislation at second reading, europe's roads will become even safer!
and in the light of this debate, i have to say that we are doing well to avoid extreme manifestations, because although it is obvious that alcohol can be called a toxic substance - and it probably is - the fact is that there are a lot of things here in europe that are far more deadly to people's lives, and i'm just going to mention two: war or stress. the commission's proposal is to be adopted by the end of the year, and i hope that the council will be able to accept it. let's not forget that the hungarian anthem is about wine, or the finnish national anthem, the kalevala, is about beer. so, taking these things into account, we will be able to move forward with a moderate approach, especially if we also consider that the sector, the sector of alcoholic beverages, is very, very much a job-creating sector.
prevention and cooperation are also very important in this matter, and indeed, as the commissioner said, it is not the training that is important, nor the name of the instrument used, but the content. i have received a motion for a resolution tabled in accordance with rule 128 (5). i'll close this discussion. the vote will take place on wednesday 29 april 2015. the commission shall be assisted by the committee established by article 15 of regulation (eu) no 182/2011.
in writing. the eu alcohol strategy is designed to address an important social and economic problem. a shocking fact is that excessive alcohol consumption is the third most common lifestyle-related cause of disease in europe. more than 60 chronic diseases including alcoholic liver disease, pancreatitis, cancer, diabetes, cardiovascular disease and obesity are identified as risk factors. it is also important to emphasise that alcohol dependence is a cause of other social problems ranging from domestic violence to workplace conflicts. in itself, moderate and cultured alcohol consumption is in line with the norms of a healthy lifestyle and the hungarian health objectives. the problem is excessive drinking at inappropriate times, such as drunk driving, which we need to tackle effectively. however, we must be careful about measures that call into question and unilaterally restrict moderate drinking, such as redundant and unjustified labelling procedures. the resulting increase in consumer prices would push the market towards lower quality spirits without control and disproportionately affect small and medium-sized enterprises. it is therefore very important that the european commission involves all stakeholders - consumers, health organisations and producers in particular - in the adoption and implementation of the alcohol strategy. this is the only way to achieve our health goals effectively.
the next item is the commission statement on the second anniversary of the rana plaza collapse and the progress of the bangladesh sustainability agreement.
i'll close this discussion. the vote will take place on wednesday 29 april 2015. the commission shall be assisted by the committee established by article 15 of regulation (eu) no 182/2011.
the next item is the debate on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the establishment of a multiannual plan for the stocks of cod, herring and sprat in the baltic sea and the fisheries exploiting those stocks, prepared by mr jarosław wałęsa on behalf of the committee on fisheries (com (2014) 0614 c8-0174/2014 2014/0285 cod).
in hungary, there was public outrage that the european commission had commissioned a company to prepare development policy analyses whose name was associated with political corruption, privatization and embezzlement. a company with four people and a $1.5 billion contract to do this analysis. it's 100% owned by the failed socialist prime minister, who is still a rising political leader. i ask the commission how this can happen in a commission which is very careful in principle to avoid any ambiguity in the mandates. i call on the commission to terminate the contract with altus ltd. immediately, as this is in direct violation of the commission's code of ethics. and i can imagine a transparent process for selecting such a company.
mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. first of all, i would like to thank ms krystyna łybacka for the high-quality and comprehensive report on the follow-up to the implementation of the bologna process. the bologna reforms have led to the creation of the european higher education area and significant achievements have been made over the past 15 years in making higher education systems more comparable, in ensuring mobility, quality assurance systems and recognition of diplomas, in improving the quality of education systems and in making european higher education more attractive. a coherent, transparent and high-quality higher education sector is essential for cultural, economic and social development. for european higher education, the bologna objectives are the essential means to meet the challenges of the present day. however, there are still problems, some member states do not recognise all the diplomas of all institutions, and i think that this should definitely be improved to make it happen in space.
in writing. madam president, i would first like to thank mr bogdan bruno wenta for his excellent and comprehensive report on european cinema in the digital age. i appreciate your work. film education can have a significant impact on individuals, influencing the development of young people's personalities and their perception of the world. the introduction of film education at all levels of education in the member states therefore plays a very important role and has long-term benefits. interacting with european films is the best way to learn about the history, culture, traditions and languages of our european neighbours. i consider it important to strengthen efforts to improve media literacy, and in particular film literacy, within the school curriculum and in cultural education institutions, and for member states to develop initiatives at national, regional and local levels covering all levels of formal, informal and non-formal education and training. i would like to emphasise the support for educational films for young people and for competitions to encourage young people to produce audiovisual works. thank you for your attention.
in writing. first of all, i would like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent suggestions for the main lines of the eu's forest strategy. these directions are in line with hungarian ideas and interests. i am particularly pleased that the report states, in the first place, that any attempt to bring forestry up to community level is unacceptable to the european parliament. the main request of hungarian foresters is also to respect the local and regional nature of the sector and the competence of the member states. i fully agree that the eu should support national policies to achieve active, multifunctional, sustainable forest management, including management of different types of forests, and strengthen cooperation to tackle cross-border challenges such as forest fires, climate change and natural disasters. forests and forestry workers play a vital role in rural life, without which rural development is unthinkable. forest management should therefore be adequately supported in rural development programmes under the cap for the period 2014-2020. the hungarian rural development programme is providing adequate support for our forests. finally, thanks to my contribution, the report has a separate chapter on the promotion of wood as a sustainable resource. i support the resource-efficient use of wood, and there should be no legally binding priorities for wood use.
it's a two-card draw. - my dear mr eickhout. i would like to ask you, although i very much agree that we need to continue negotiating, if we cannot decide whether it is first, second or multi-generation fuels, are we not, in effect, accidentally giving space to fossil fuels to continue to make progress?
the biofuels directive is being negotiated in the ordinary legislative framework, i.e. in a codecision procedure with the council, but only in principle. in principle, because the council refuses to take parliament's amendments into account, and the empty seats show that it does not even listen to us. the rapporteur's view that parliament's amendments at first reading are being repeated in a new way can therefore be accepted. the most important is to severely limit the share of biofuels produced from conventional food crops. if we don't do that, and energy prices will rise, and we know they will, then more and more land will be used for energy crops, not for food. and the serious consequences of this have been seen on other continents.
in writing. reducing the greenhouse gas emissions of fuels sold is an important part of the eu's efforts to combat climate change. it's a very complex subject, with many different interests. i think we've found a compromise that's available at this moment. again, this is a compromise, so many of us are not completely satisfied. i would like to refer back to the vote last december on the implementation of the fuel quality directive. the adoption of the average global greenhouse gas emissions figure is, in my view, a good compromise. the most important aspect was to reduce the administrative and bureaucratic burden on the industry. the current debate is less about the administrative burden and more about predictability: the most important aspect for business operators is stability, the predictability of the investment environment. the european people's party has made it a priority to think in these terms: economic development, job creation and competitiveness are key to recovering from the economic crisis.
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen of the house, i would like to begin by thanking mrs auken and mr la via, the chairman of the committee. i think we've taken a very serious step to get rid of a very bad habit in europe. the consumption habit that commissioner vella mentioned. we have to get rid of it, because 90 percent of these plastic bags are thrown away and there are actually eight billion plastic bags a year -- and we haven't even called attention to that yet -- that end up in nature, we don't know where it goes. this is a scandal, this is our scandal. this bill is trying to get us out of that. obviously, it's a compromise, but we can show that it's really possible to do it in a civic way and really deal with something that everybody in europe is concerned about today. and as the rapporteur has said, obviously in many countries they have found a solution to this, and actually i would like to emphasize one thing: there is a choice. you can choose between actually introducing a product tax in 2011, as in my country, hungary, and thereby actually radically reducing plastic bags, or you can start filling the quota and reducing it in another way. it's very important that no one is left out of this, and it's still a compromise, because we know very well that below a certain number, 15 microns, we haven't found the solution yet, we have to keep working, and we've seen what interests are against it, but i think it's very important. it is not enough to have a cleaner, more livable european environment, and we have actually put the choice in the hands of european consumers, not just governments. (the intervener agrees to answer a question referred for a preliminary ruling (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure))
blue-card answer. – thank you very much for this opportunity. i agree with you of course, but i think that in this case everybody has to take care of his own country first rather than europe doing everything. we have gone so far in europe and every country has the opportunity to go faster and further with the european union following behind.
it's a two-card draw. there were actually several speakers in this debate, but mr liese also said in general what was expected of the member states and he also said that they had spoken to consumers. but here in this parliament we cannot go into generalities, and i would respectfully ask the honourable member what specific measures he considers necessary to reduce consumption, that is, on the consumer side, because it is usually difficult to deal with even at the level of debate.
the excessive use of lightweight plastic carrier bags is causing serious environmental pollution in all countries of the union. the number is a deterrent. eight billion of these end up in the trash every year, so we need to regulate. the legislation is also to be supported because it is a directive, which will be transposed by the member states themselves into their own legal systems, and it also leaves a number of options for how the member state will fulfil this task. i consider action against false labelling to be particularly important. the term 'oxidizing biodegradable plastic carrier' is completely misleading, because it can actually cause even more environmental pollution after it breaks down into micro-particles. clearly, the best solution would be to use plastic bags that are truly biodegradable and compostable.
in writing. ‒ the international convention on the training, certification and watchkeeping of fishing vessel personnel is designed to ensure that personnel on board fishing vessels are properly qualified (certified by official documentation) and fit for work (ascertained by medical examination). this is necessary to minimise the potential threats to life and/or property and the marine environment at sea during operations on board fishing vessels. i believe that the crews of fishing vessels should also be provided with adequate knowledge of sustainable fishing methods in order to maintain marine fish stocks. it follows that the common fisheries policy should pay much more attention to sustainable fisheries, i.e. aquaculture, and in particular freshwater fisheries, than it has done so far. a significant part of the hungarian wetlands is located in natura 2000 areas. these fish farms do not represent any threat to the natural values of these areas. in fact, in many cases it is our closed systems of wetlands that have created and preserved unique associations of aquatic habitats.
in writing. - of course i supported the recommendation. i think it's very important that the crew on fishing vessels work in the safest possible conditions. the fisheries sector is one of the sectors where a large number of people are injured and die on the job, more than 20 000 people a year.
in writing. ‒ article 19 of the mff regulation provides for the revision of the mff in the event of late adoption of new rules or programmes implemented under shared management, in order to allow for the carry-over of resources not used in 2014 to subsequent years in excess of the corresponding expenditure ceilings. the amount of the decommitted commitment appropriations for programmes implemented in 2014 under shared management in accordance with article 19 of the mff regulation is eur 21 043 639 478 in current prices, corresponding to the parts of the programmes due in 2014 that were not committed in 2014 and that could not be carried over to 2015. i support the maximum possible carry-over of appropriations to the 2015 financial year, as this avoids unfair treatment of member states, regions and operational programmes, accelerates the implementation and delivery of cohesion policy and helps to avoid the concentration of payments at the end of the mff. as a member of the fidesz-kdnp delegation, i supported the adoption of the report in line with the pp's position.
in writing. ‒ article 19 of the mff regulation provides for the revision of the mff in the event of late adoption of new rules or programmes implemented under shared management, in order to allow for the carry-over of resources not used in 2014 to subsequent years in excess of the corresponding expenditure ceilings. the amount of the decommitted commitment appropriations for programmes implemented in 2014 under shared management in accordance with article 19 of the mff regulation is eur 21 043 639 478 in current prices, corresponding to the parts of the programmes due in 2014 that were not committed in 2014 and that could not be carried over to 2015. the report welcomes the fact that the appropriations have been carried over to the 2015 financial year to the greatest extent possible, as this avoids unfair treatment of member states, regions and operational programmes, accelerates the implementation and delivery of cohesion policy and helps to avoid the concentration of payments at the end of the mff. the fidesz-kdnp delegation supports the adoption of the report in line with the position of the people's party.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the amendment to the multiannual financial framework. this is necessary to allow the transfer of unused commitment appropriations from the 2014-2020 framework budget, amounting to eur 21,1 billion, to the budgets of the following years. this situation was due to the late adoption of the cohesion, rural development and fisheries operational programmes and their related legislation, which was largely due to the delay of the european commission. i therefore ask the commission to do everything possible to ensure that the member states' operational programmes for cohesion, rural development and fisheries, which are still to be adopted, are approved swiftly.
in writing. ‒ article 19 of the mff regulation provides for the revision of the mff in the event of late adoption of new rules or programmes implemented under shared management, in order to allow for the carry-over of resources not used in 2014 to subsequent years in excess of the corresponding expenditure ceilings. the amount of the decommitted commitment appropriations for programmes implemented in 2014 under shared management in accordance with article 19 of the mff regulation is eur 21 043 639 478 in current prices, corresponding to the parts of the programmes due in 2014 that were not committed in 2014 and that could not be carried over to 2015. the report welcomes the fact that the appropriations have been carried over to the 2015 financial year to the greatest extent possible, as this avoids unfair treatment of member states, regions and operational programmes, accelerates the implementation and delivery of cohesion policy and helps to avoid the concentration of payments at the end of the mff. the fidesz-kdnp delegation supports the adoption of the report in line with the position of the people's party.
in writing. ‒ article 19 of the mff regulation provides for the revision of the mff in the event of late adoption of new rules or programmes implemented under shared management, in order to allow for the carry-over of resources not used in 2014 to subsequent years in excess of the corresponding expenditure ceilings. the amount of the decommitted commitment appropriations for programmes implemented in 2014 under shared management in accordance with article 19 of the mff regulation is eur 21 043 639 478 in current prices, corresponding to the parts of the programmes due in 2014 that were not committed in 2014 and that could not be carried over to 2015. the report welcomes the fact that the appropriations have been carried over to the 2015 financial year to the greatest extent possible, as this avoids unfair treatment of member states, regions and operational programmes, accelerates the implementation and delivery of cohesion policy and helps to avoid the concentration of payments at the end of the mff. the fidesz-kdnp delegation supports the adoption of the report in line with the position of the people's party.
in writing. ‒ article 19 of the mff regulation provides for the revision of the mff in the event of late adoption of new rules or programmes implemented under shared management, in order to allow for the carry-over of resources not used in 2014 to subsequent years in excess of the corresponding expenditure ceilings. the amount of the decommitted commitment appropriations for programmes implemented in 2014 under shared management in accordance with article 19 of the mff regulation is eur 21 043 639 478 in current prices, corresponding to the parts of the programmes due in 2014 that were not committed in 2014 and that could not be carried over to 2015. the report welcomes the fact that the appropriations have been carried over to the 2015 financial year to the greatest extent possible, as this avoids unfair treatment of member states, regions and operational programmes, accelerates the implementation and delivery of cohesion policy and helps to avoid the concentration of payments at the end of the mff. as a member of the fidesz-kdnp delegation, i support the adoption of the report in line with the pp's position.
in writing. ‒ article 19 of the mff regulation provides for the revision of the mff in the event of late adoption of new rules or programmes implemented under shared management, in order to allow for the carry-over of resources not used in 2014 to subsequent years in excess of the corresponding expenditure ceilings. the amount of the decommitted commitment appropriations for programmes implemented in 2014 under shared management in accordance with article 19 of the mff regulation is eur 21 043 639 478 in current prices, corresponding to the parts of the programmes due in 2014 that were not committed in 2014 and that could not be carried over to 2015. the report welcomes the fact that the appropriations have been carried over to the 2015 financial year to the greatest extent possible, as this avoids unfair treatment of member states, regions and operational programmes, accelerates the implementation and delivery of cohesion policy and helps to avoid the concentration of payments at the end of the mff. the fidesz-kdnp delegation supports the adoption of the report in line with the position of the people's party.
in writing. ‒ since joining the eu, my country has suffered terrible losses, as our production capacities have been eliminated, our factories have been torn down, demolished, our foreign markets have been plundered, our agriculture has been destroyed. in return, we get some handouts on various titles, which we can use to cover public spaces with imported limestone and provide wi-fi at the bus stop, which has three flights a day and so on. due to delays in approvals, it is often not possible to pay for certain programmes in the current year, leaving unused funds which then have to be carried over to subsequent years. these arrears have been accumulating over the years, so i had to vote for the proposal to at least pay our contractors after the work is done.
in writing. ‒ the draft council regulation allows for the transfer and subsequent use of some eur 21 billion unused from the various union funds until 2014. the draft shall not be adopted without the consent of the european parliament.
in writing. ‒ under the proposal, additional resources will be made available for the catch-up and social funds. this, in my view, contributes to reducing disparities within the union and to creating jobs. i also support the need for a flexible approach to financial planning in order to avoid the loss of resources or their irregular spending.
in writing. ‒ the council regulation provides for the transfer to future years of almost eur 21 billion not used up to 2014. the european parliament's approval is needed, and that is why the amendment of the regulation is important, which i supported.
in writing. ‒ those who find the high number of people killed in accidents on european roads unacceptable are absolutely right. tragedy strikes thousands of families, and we lose vibrant adults and gifted children every day. to stop this process, to prevent serious accidents, much has been done in the member states of the european union in recent years: speeding controls and penalties, and the reduction of drunk driving. in technical terms, the mandatory use of seat belts and air bags was an important step, but it still does not seem to be enough. the proposed e-call for assistance system, if properly implemented and fully complied with data protection rules, could be an effective tool to reduce road fatalities and provide the most rapid and effective care for accident victims.
in writing. ‒ adequate access to emergency assistance is an integral part of the single market and the freedoms it provides. in the 21st century, europe cannot afford to have no common it back-up for emergency services, or to have no data search and location, since the former way of operating has not only not promoted but makes it more difficult to organise assistance with a common approach. the hungarian delegation of the european people's party also believes that special attention should be paid to the technical conditions. we are proud to say that the hungarian government has committed itself to operating the e-call for help system. it is important to establish a free system that is effective and respects data protection at eu level. the second reading report meets this condition and i therefore voted in favour of it.
in writing. ‒ adequate access to emergency assistance is an integral part of the single market and the freedoms it provides. in the 21st century, europe cannot afford to have no common it back-up for emergency services, or to have no data search and location, since the former form of operation has not only promoted but specifically hampered the organisation of a uniform approach to assistance. the hungarian delegation of the european people's party also believes that special attention should be paid to the technical conditions. we are proud to say that the hungarian government has committed itself to operating the e-call for help system. it is important to establish a free system that is effective and respects data protection at eu level. the second reading report meets this condition and i therefore voted in favour of it.
in writing. ‒ adequate access to emergency assistance is an integral part of the single market and the freedoms it provides. in the 21st century, europe cannot afford to have no common it back-up for emergency services, or to have no data search and location, since the former form of operation has not only promoted but specifically hampered the organisation of a uniform approach to assistance. the hungarian delegation of the european people's party also believes that special attention should be paid to the technical conditions. we are proud to say that the hungarian government has committed itself to operating the e-call for help system. it is important to establish a free system that is effective and respects data protection at eu level. the second reading report meets this condition and i therefore voted in favour of it.
in writing. ‒ adequate access to emergency assistance is an integral part of the single market and the freedoms it provides. in the 21st century, europe cannot afford to have no common it back-up for emergency services, or to have no data search and location, since the former way of operating has not only not promoted but makes it very difficult to organise a uniform approach to assistance. the hungarian delegation of the european people's party also believes that special attention should be paid to the technical conditions. we are proud to say that the hungarian government has committed itself to operating the e-call for help system. it is important to establish a free system that is effective and respects data protection at eu level. the second reading report meets this condition and i therefore voted in favour of it.
in writing. ‒ adequate access to emergency assistance is an integral part of the single market and the freedoms it provides. in the 21st century, europe cannot afford to have no common it infrastructure for emergency services, or to have no data search and location systems, since the former form of operation has not only promoted but also made it more difficult to organise assistance with a common approach. the hungarian delegation of the european people's party also believes that special attention should be paid to the technical conditions. we are proud to say that the hungarian government has committed itself to operating the e-call for help system. it is important to establish a free system that is effective and respects data protection at eu level. the second reading report meets this condition and i therefore voted in favour of it.
in writing. ‒ adequate access to emergency assistance is an integral part of the single market and the freedoms it provides. in the 21st century, europe cannot afford to have no common it back-up for emergency services, or to have no data search and location, since the former way of operating has not only not promoted but makes it more difficult to organise assistance with a common approach. the hungarian delegation of the european people's party also believes that special attention should be paid to the technical conditions. we are proud to say that the hungarian government has committed itself to operating the e-call for help system. it is important to establish a free system that is effective and respects data protection at eu level. the second reading report meets this condition and i therefore voted in favour of it.
in writing. ‒ adequate access to emergency assistance is an integral part of the single market and the freedoms it provides. in the 21st century, europe cannot afford to have no common it back-up for emergency services, or to have no data search and location, since the former way of operating has not only not promoted but makes it more difficult to organise assistance with a common approach. the hungarian delegation of the european people's party also believes that special attention should be paid to the technical conditions. we are proud to say that the hungarian government has committed itself to operating the e-call for help system. it is important to establish a free system that is effective and respects data protection at eu level. the second reading report meets this condition and i therefore voted in favour of it.
in writing. ‒ in my view, the proposal has the potential to improve road safety, save lives in the event of a serious road accident and contribute to the most efficient use of the resources available for rescue. although there are costs to consumers, these are negligible compared to the individual and community benefits that can be achieved.
in writing. ‒ adequate access to emergency assistance is an integral part of the single market and the freedoms it provides. in europe in the 21st century, it is essential that emergency services have a common it platform to enable data retrieval and location to work properly, as the previous form of the system not only did not promote but made it particularly difficult to organise assistance with a common approach. the hungarian delegation of the european people's party also believes that special attention should be paid to the technical conditions. it is important to establish a free system that also operates effectively at union level, while fully respecting the union's data protection principles. the second reading report meets this condition and i therefore voted in favour of it.
in writing. ‒ i fully agree with parliament’s position concerning the ecall emergency device. from 31 march 2018, all new cars and light commercial vehicles will be equipped with an ecall emergency device that will automatically dial the 112 emergency number in the event of an accident, sending details of the accident to emergency services. the quicker response from the emergency services to accidents on roads across europe could save about 2 500 lives in the eu every year. and this is free of charge for all of our citizens.
in writing. ‒ the biofuels agreement provides a balanced compromise between the eu's environmental objectives and the legitimate interests of agricultural operators and biofuel producers. the global increase in land use due to the production of so-called traditional biofuels from agricultural raw materials is not uniform across the european union. the new legislation takes better account of the specific situation of the central european region than in previous drafts, where, without endangering food production and rainforests, a large amount of biofuel can be produced by simply increasing yields, providing a secure livelihood for those who depend on agriculture. in line with the fidesz-kdnp group's position, i believe that the directive voted today offers an opportunity to increase hungary's export revenues and secure long-term sales of our agricultural products. that is why i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ with today's vote, we hope to end a three-year negotiating cycle and move closer to a solution that is acceptable to the majority of participants. i believe that we should not use a single system for first generation biofuels, but take into account the natural capacities and potential of individual member states. for example, in many of the new member states, it remains possible to use land not used for food production for biofuel production, and to use land lying fallow for crop production, thereby increasing crop yields. a study by the university of utrecht published in january 2015 suggests that huge amounts of biofuels can be produced without increasing the risk of indirect land use change (iluc). the commission considers that the measures under assessment are proportionate to the objective of the scheme and that the aid is necessary to achieve the objective of the scheme. according to the same study, hungary could produce about 1.2 to 5.2 billion litres of bioethanol from maize, which would not have any negative impact on the use of land. in these countries, large amounts of biofuel can be produced without compromising food production, by increasing yields and mapping the land. this provides jobs and income for farmers, but it doesn't stop investors. we must not be satisfied with today's result. we must continue to encourage science and industry and, to the extent possible, support the development of environmentally friendly and sustainable alternatives.
in writing. ‒ the biofuels agreement provides a balanced compromise between the eu's environmental objectives and the legitimate interests of agricultural operators and biofuel producers. the global increase in land use due to the production of so-called traditional biofuels from agricultural raw materials is not uniform. the new legislation takes better account of the specific situation of the central european region than in previous drafts, where, without endangering food production and rainforests, a large amount of biofuel can be produced by simply increasing yields, providing a secure livelihood for those who live off agriculture. the hungarian delegation's presence also led the european commission to develop a calculation methodology for low-land-use change ethanol by 2017. we will continue to strive to develop criteria that are favourable to hungarian farmers. in line with the fidesz-kdnp group's position, i believe that the directive voted today offers an opportunity to increase hungary's export revenues and secure long-term sales of our agricultural products. that is why i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ the biofuels agreement provides a balanced compromise between the eu's environmental objectives and the legitimate interests of agricultural operators and biofuel producers. the global increase in land use due to the production of so-called traditional biofuels from agricultural raw materials is not uniform. the new legislation takes better account of the specific situation of the central european region than in previous drafts, where, without endangering food production and rainforests, a large amount of biofuel can be produced by simply increasing yields, providing a secure livelihood for those who depend on agriculture. the hungarian delegation's presence also led the european commission to develop a calculation methodology for low-land-use change ethanol by 2017. we will continue to strive to develop criteria that are favourable to hungarian farmers. in line with the fidesz-kdnp group's position, i believe that the directive voted today will provide an opportunity to increase hungary's export revenues and ensure that hungarian farmers can sell their crops safely and in the long term. that is why i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ the biofuels agreement provides a balanced compromise between the eu's environmental objectives and the legitimate interests of agricultural operators and biofuel producers. the global increase in land use due to the production of so-called traditional biofuels from agricultural raw materials is not uniform. the new legislation takes better account of the specific situation of the central european region than in previous drafts, where, without endangering food production and rainforests, a large amount of biofuel can be produced by simply increasing yields, providing a secure livelihood for those who depend on agriculture. the hungarian delegation's presence also led the european commission to develop a calculation methodology for low-land-use change ethanol by 2017. we will continue to strive to develop criteria that are favourable to hungarian farmers. in line with the fidesz-kdnp group's position, i believe that the directive voted today will provide an opportunity to increase hungary's export revenues and secure long-term sales of our agricultural products. that is why i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ the biofuels agreement provides a balanced compromise between the eu's environmental objectives and the legitimate interests of agricultural operators and biofuel producers. the global increase in land use due to the production of so-called traditional biofuels from agricultural raw materials is not uniform. the new legislation takes better account of the specific situation of the central european region than in previous drafts, where large quantities of biofuel can be produced by simply increasing yields without endangering food production and rainforests, providing a secure livelihood for those who depend on agriculture. the hungarian delegation's presence also led the european commission to develop a calculation methodology for low-land-use change ethanol by 2017. we will continue to strive to develop criteria that are favourable to hungarian farmers. in line with the fidesz-kdnp group's position, i believe that the directive voted today will provide an opportunity to increase hungary's export revenues and secure long-term sales of our agricultural products. that is why i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ the biofuels agreement provides a balanced compromise between the eu's environmental objectives and the legitimate interests of agricultural operators and biofuel producers. the global increase in land use due to the production of so-called traditional biofuels from agricultural raw materials is not uniform. the new legislation takes better account of the specific situation of the central european region than in previous drafts, where large quantities of biofuel can be produced by simply increasing yields without endangering food production and rainforests, providing a secure livelihood for those who depend on agriculture. the hungarian delegation's presence also led the european commission to develop a calculation methodology for low-land-use change ethanol by 2017. we will continue to strive to develop criteria that are favourable to hungarian farmers. in line with the fidesz-kdnp group's position, i believe that the directive voted today will provide an opportunity to increase hungary's export revenues and secure long-term sales of our agricultural products. that is why i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ the biofuels agreement provides a balanced compromise between the eu's environmental objectives and the legitimate interests of agricultural operators and biofuel producers. the global increase in land use due to the production of so-called traditional biofuels from agricultural raw materials is not uniform. the new legislation takes better account of the specific situation of the central european region than in previous drafts, where, without endangering food production and rainforests, a large amount of biofuel can be produced by simply increasing yields, providing a secure livelihood for those who depend on agriculture. the hungarian delegation's presence also led the european commission to develop a calculation methodology for low-land-use change ethanol by 2017. we will continue to strive to develop criteria that are favourable to hungarian farmers. in line with the fidesz-kdnp group's position, i believe that the directive voted today will provide an opportunity to increase hungary's export revenues and secure long-term sales of our agricultural products. that is why i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the second reading of the draft resolution, which aims both to reduce emissions of harmful substances and to allow for further technological developments. i believe that the complexity of biofuels requires a multi-faceted approach. in addition to reducing greenhouse gas emissions, we are talking about an existing sector that also provides jobs, which stimulates further investment and job creation in rural areas. it is also important to note that this can reduce the external energy dependence of the european union and that some of the by-products of biofuel production are valuable nutrients or fuels. i therefore consider it important that an informal agreement on the draft legislation has been reached between parliament and the eu's specialised ministers, so that a compromise solution has been found. the directive requires member states to transpose its content into their national law by 2017 and to ensure that first generation biofuels (i.e. energy sources from cereals grown on land) can account for no more than 7% of transport energy sources by 2020. personally, when developing the indirect land use directive, i supported a higher inclusion rate of 4 to 7.5% of the target (so-called first generation) biofuels from arable crops and i feel that this has created a healthy balance.
in writing. ‒ today, 90% of nylon waste used for purchases in the european union is used once before it becomes a highly polluting waste, not at all, or a waste that is difficult to decompose. this is a huge environmental burden, as 8 billion plastic bags are discarded in nature every year. the new european legislation approved is therefore designed to reduce excessive and sometimes unnecessary waste generation. thanks to the previously introduced law on environmental product taxes, hungary is already meeting the 2025 targets of the newly approved directive, with an exemplary result in europe. as a member of the fidesz-kdnp group, i supported the adoption of the new eu legislation, as it will not only effectively reduce nylon waste but also encourage environmentally conscious consumer habits. this will help to create a cleaner, more liveable european environment.
in writing. ‒ today, pollution is so widespread that we must tackle it at every level and in every possible area. the amendment to the directive requires member states to limit the number of lightweight plastic carrier bags on a continuous basis in order to reduce littering. these are dangerous to the environment in many ways, and it is important that we pay attention to them. because of their thinness and weak texture, they are unlikely to be reused, and people throw them away more often than thicker bags, thus avoiding their entering the waste treatment system. the amendment of the directive offers several options for a sustainable limitation of the number of lightweight plastic carrier bags, such as reducing the number to 40 pieces per person per year by the end of 2025. the commission will also consider the possibility of member states ensuring that, by the end of 2018, no free lightweight plastic carrier bags are given away at the time of purchase in their shops, or of using another method to ensure that the number of plastic carrier bags is reduced in an equally effective way. i consider the adoption of this amendment to be very important, because by its entry into force member states will have to reduce the number of lightweight plastic carrier bags and report this in annual reports to the commission, which will then be able to monitor compliance effectively. if this amendment to the restriction is not implemented, the number of plastic carrier bags would increase in the future, with unforeseeable consequences for nature.
in writing. ‒ today, 90% of nylon tyres used for purchases in the union are used once before they become waste. this is a huge environmental burden, as 8 billion plastic bags are discarded in nature every year. the new european legislation approved is therefore designed to reduce excessive and sometimes unnecessary waste generation. the commission has already adopted a proposal for a directive on the environment for the period from 1 january 2014 to 31 december 2020. as a member of the fidesz-kdnp group, i was happy to support the adoption of the new eu legislation, as it will not only effectively reduce nylon waste but also encourage the development of environmentally conscious consumer habits. this will help to create a cleaner, more liveable european environment.
in writing. ‒ today, 90% of nylon tyres used for purchases in the union are used once before they become waste. this is a huge environmental burden, as 8 billion plastic bags are discarded in nature every year. the new european legislation approved is therefore designed to reduce excessive and sometimes unnecessary waste generation. the commission has already adopted a proposal for a directive on the environment for the period from 1 january 2014 to 31 december 2020. as a member of the fidesz-kdnp group, i was happy to support the adoption of the new eu legislation, as it will not only effectively reduce nylon waste but also encourage the development of environmentally conscious consumer habits. this will help to create a cleaner, more liveable european environment.
in writing. ‒ today, 90% of nylon tyres used for purchases in the union are used once before they become waste. this is a huge environmental burden, as 8 billion plastic bags are discarded in nature every year. the new european legislation approved is therefore designed to reduce excessive and sometimes unnecessary waste generation. the commission has already adopted a proposal for a directive on the environment for the period from 1 january 2014 to 31 december 2020. as a member of the fidesz-kdnp group, i was happy to support the adoption of the new eu legislation, as it will not only effectively reduce nylon waste but also encourage the development of environmentally conscious consumer habits. this will help to create a cleaner, more liveable european environment.
in writing. ‒ today, 90% of nylon tyres used for purchases in the union are used once before they become waste. this is a huge environmental burden, as 8 billion plastic bags are discarded in nature every year. the new european legislation approved is therefore designed to reduce excessive and sometimes unnecessary waste generation. the commission has already adopted a proposal for a directive on the environment for the period from 1 january 2014 to 31 december 2020. as a member of the fidesz-kdnp group, i was happy to support the adoption of the new eu legislation, as it will not only effectively reduce nylon waste but also encourage the development of environmentally conscious consumer habits, thus contributing to a cleaner, more livable european environment.
in writing. ‒ today, 90% of nylon tyres used for purchases in the union are used once before they become waste. this is a huge environmental burden, as 8 billion plastic bags are discarded in nature every year. the new european legislation approved is therefore designed to reduce excessive and sometimes unnecessary waste generation. the commission has already adopted a proposal for a directive on the environment for the period from 1 january 2014 to 31 december 2020. as a member of the fidesz-kdnp group, i was happy to support the adoption of the new eu legislation, as it will not only effectively reduce nylon waste but also encourage the development of environmentally conscious consumer habits, thus contributing to a cleaner, more livable european environment.
in writing. ‒ today, 90% of nylon tyres used for purchases in the union are used once before they become waste. this is a huge environmental burden, as 8 billion plastic bags are discarded in nature every year. the new european legislation approved is therefore designed to reduce excessive and sometimes unnecessary waste generation. the commission has already adopted a proposal for a directive on the environment for the period from 1 january 2014 to 31 december 2020. as a member of the fidesz-kdnp group, i was happy to support the adoption of the new eu legislation, as it will not only effectively reduce nylon waste but also encourage the development of environmentally conscious consumer habits, thus contributing to a cleaner, more livable european environment.
in writing. ‒ today, 90% of nylon tyres used for purchases in the union are used once before they become waste. this is a huge environmental burden, as 8 billion plastic bags are discarded in nature every year. the new european legislation approved is therefore designed to reduce excessive and sometimes unnecessary waste generation. the commission has already adopted a proposal for a directive on the environment for the period from 1 january 2014 to 31 december 2020. as a member of the fidesz-kdnp group, i was happy to support the adoption of the new eu legislation, as it will not only effectively reduce nylon waste but also encourage the development of environmentally conscious consumer habits. this will help to create a cleaner, more liveable european environment.
in writing. ‒ the proposal's primary objective is to reduce the environmental damage caused by plastic bags and to encourage the spread of responsible waste management. in my view, the proposal is a contribution to these objectives and can therefore be supported.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the second reading of the draft recommendation, as i consider it of the utmost importance to minimise the use of so-called plastic bags in the european union. as we know, it takes five seconds to make these bags, and 500 years to completely decompose them. the recycling rate of these bags is almost zero, and in fact, much of it is buried in landfills, mainly in rural areas. in 2010, it was estimated that over eight billion plastic bags ended up in landfills, so i think this legislation is good for everyone, because it's a huge environmental problem. the adopted recommendation requires member states to reduce the annual consumption of lightweight plastic carrier bags per person to less than 90 by the end of 2019 and to less than 40 by the end of 2025 or to guarantee that consumers will not be able to receive such plastic carrier bags free of charge after 2018. it is for these reasons that i supported the second reading of the recommendation, which provides for a transitional period but obliges member states to radically reduce the use of plastic carrier bags.
in writing. ‒ i completely agree to have legislation to reduce the consumption of lightweight plastic carrier bags, as the statistics show over 8 billion plastic carrier bags are littered in the eu every year. more than 90% of the european citizens support to have measures to reduce the usage. the new legislation will oblige member states to adopt measures ensuring that the annual consumption level does not exceed and ensuring that they are not given these plastic bags for free at stores and sales points by the end of 2017.
in writing. ‒ co2 emissions from maritime transport represent 4% of emissions from all transport sectors. i fully agree with the report, as this was not a regulated sector.
in writing. ‒ reliable and accurate european statistics serve two essential purposes as a public good: as a building block for policy-makers' decisions and as a picture of the state of the economy and society, providing assurance for other governments and the financial market. however, events in recent years have shaken the confidence of the public and the markets. since then, we have seen how misleading and false statistics can add to political and economic turmoil. the sovereign debt crisis was certainly exacerbated by public and market scepticism about the accuracy of statistics on the public debt and the government deficit. this should be taken as a warning, as public confidence in the credibility of statistics is key to creating a culture of fact-based policy-making and accountability. in this respect, the timing of the report is excellent. we need to rebuild public confidence in statistics. i believe that the previous initiatives should be strengthened. the statistical code of practice adopted by the commission and the member states must be implemented and strictly observed, and i therefore voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ reliable and accurate european statistics serve two essential purposes as a public good: as a building block for policy-makers' decisions and as a picture of the state of the economy and society, providing assurance for other governments and the financial market. however, events in recent years have shaken the confidence of the public and the markets. since then, we have seen how misleading and false statistics can add to political and economic turmoil. the sovereign debt crisis was certainly exacerbated by public and market scepticism about the accuracy of statistics on the public debt and the government deficit. this should be taken as a warning, as public confidence in the credibility of statistics is key to creating a culture of fact-based policy-making and accountability. in this respect, the timing of the report is excellent. we need to rebuild public confidence in statistics. i believe that the previous initiatives should be strengthened. the statistical code of practice adopted by the commission and the member states must be implemented and strictly observed, and i therefore voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ reliable and accurate european statistics serve two essential purposes as a public good: as a building block for policy-makers' decisions and as a picture of the state of the economy and society, providing assurance for other governments and the financial market. however, events in recent years have shaken the confidence of the public and the markets. since then, we have seen how misleading and false statistics can add to political and economic turmoil. the sovereign debt crisis was certainly exacerbated by public and market scepticism about the accuracy of statistics on the public debt and the government deficit. this should be taken as a warning, as public confidence in the credibility of statistics is key to creating a culture of fact-based policy-making and accountability. in this respect, the timing of the report is excellent. we need to rebuild public confidence in statistics. i believe that the previous initiatives should be strengthened. the statistical code of practice adopted by the commission and the member states must be implemented and strictly observed, and i therefore voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ reliable and accurate european statistics serve two essential purposes as a public good: as a building block for policy-makers' decisions and as a picture of the state of the economy and society, providing assurance for other governments and the financial market. however, events in recent years have shaken the confidence of the public and the markets. since then, we have seen how misleading and false statistics can add to political and economic turmoil. the sovereign debt crisis was certainly exacerbated by public and market scepticism about the accuracy of statistics on the public debt and the government deficit. this should be taken as a warning, as public confidence in the credibility of statistics is key to creating a culture of fact-based policy-making and accountability. in this respect, the timing of the report is excellent. we need to rebuild public confidence in statistics. i believe that the previous initiatives should be strengthened. the statistical code of practice adopted by the commission and the member states must be implemented and strictly observed, and i therefore voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ powerful global forces are working to transform europe into the united states. in the model state of democracy, the establishment of the united states was relatively easy on the lands taken from the exterminated indigenous people. in europe, the process is stalled, resisted by nation states and nationalist sentiment, by people, by organizations. the european commission, on the other hand, is trying to write off everything that is national. this proposal is contrary even to the principles of protocol 2 to the lisbon treaty, which are intended to guarantee the limited autonomy of the countries and proportionality, and i could not accept it.
in writing. ‒ second reading of the proposal for a regulation amending regulation (ec) no 223/2009 on european statistics. i supported the council's position on the text adopted at first reading, as proposed by the rapporteur.
in writing. ‒ a fact-based approach to policy issues requires the reliable and efficient functioning of the european statistical system and its adaptation to economic change. i consider it particularly important that the professional independence of the heads of statistical authorities in the member states be guaranteed.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the adoption of the recommendation, as all efforts to promote the professional independence of the european statistical authorities should be supported, as should the ease of comparison and accessibility of statistics from the member states. there are member states where the heads of national statistical offices are chosen on the basis of political considerations, or where the publication of certain reports is delayed or refused on the basis of political decisions. these practices must be stopped. the staff of statistical offices may be selected on the basis of strictly professional criteria and shall carry out their duties independently of any pressure from political or other interest groups. the recommendation contributes to meeting these expectations by providing high-quality, regularly updated statistical data that provide a reliable basis for responsible decision-making.
in writing. - this is a very important area. the report examines, at second reading, the recommendations for the collection and systematisation of european statistics. all initiatives at european level that strengthen the independence of statistical authorities should be supported. authentic and comparable data shall be used as a basis for establishing the true economic situation. i voted in favour of the recommendation.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the multiannual plan for the baltic stocks of cod, herring and sprat and their fisheries. this report also clearly shows that 30% of the world's seas are overfished, and the survival of marine fish stocks is at risk. the justified measures taken to maintain marine fish stocks have led to a continuous and significant decline in the amount of marine fish caught. the cfp should therefore pay much more attention to sustainable fisheries, i.e. aquaculture, and in particular freshwater fisheries. a significant part of the hungarian wetlands is located in natura 2000 areas. these fish farms do not represent any threat to the natural values of these areas. in fact, in many cases it is our closed systems of wetlands that have created and preserved unique associations of aquatic habitats. consequently, freshwater aquaculture should be freed from unnecessarily stringent and unnecessary sustainability standards that are justified only for marine fisheries. efforts should be made to define and regulate freshwater aquaculture clearly now.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the multiannual plan for the baltic stocks of cod, herring and sprat and their fisheries. this report also clearly shows that 30% of the world's seas are overfished, and the survival of marine fish stocks is at risk. the justified measures taken to maintain marine fish stocks have led to a continuous and significant decline in the amount of marine fish caught. the cfp should therefore pay much more attention to sustainable fisheries, i.e. aquaculture, and in particular freshwater fisheries. a significant part of the hungarian wetlands is located in natura 2000 areas. these fish farms do not represent any threat to the natural values of these areas. in fact, in many cases it is our closed systems of wetlands that have created and preserved unique associations of aquatic habitats. consequently, freshwater aquaculture should be freed from unnecessarily stringent and unnecessary sustainability standards that are justified only for marine fisheries. efforts should be made to define and regulate freshwater aquaculture clearly now.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the multiannual plan for the baltic stocks of cod, herring and sprat and their fisheries. this report also clearly shows that 30% of the world's seas are overfished, and the survival of marine fish stocks is at risk. the justified measures taken to maintain marine fish stocks have led to a continuous and significant decline in the amount of marine fish caught. the cfp should therefore pay much more attention to sustainable fisheries, i.e. aquaculture, and in particular freshwater fisheries. a significant part of the hungarian wetlands is located in natura 2000 areas. these fish farms do not represent any threat to the natural values of these areas. in fact, in many cases it is our closed systems of wetlands that have created and preserved unique associations of aquatic habitats. consequently, freshwater aquaculture should be freed from unnecessarily stringent and unnecessary sustainability standards that are justified only for marine fisheries. efforts should be made to define and regulate freshwater aquaculture clearly now.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the multiannual plan for the baltic stocks of cod, herring and sprat and their fisheries. this report also clearly shows that 30% of the world's seas are overfished, and the survival of marine fish stocks is at risk. the justified measures taken to maintain marine fish stocks have led to a continuous and significant decline in the amount of marine fish caught. the cfp should therefore pay much more attention to sustainable fisheries, i.e. aquaculture, and in particular freshwater fisheries. a significant part of the hungarian wetlands is located in natura 2000 areas. these fish farms do not represent any threat to the natural values of these areas. in fact, in many cases it is our closed systems of wetlands that have created and preserved unique associations of aquatic habitats. consequently, freshwater aquaculture should be freed from unnecessarily stringent and unnecessary sustainability standards that are justified only for marine fisheries. efforts should be made to define and regulate freshwater aquaculture clearly now.
in writing. ‒ as a member of the hungarian delegation to the people's party, i voted in favour of the report on the multiannual plan for the baltic stocks of cod, herring and sprat and their fisheries. this report also clearly shows that 30% of the world's seas are overfished, and the survival of marine fish stocks is at risk. the justified measures taken to maintain marine fish stocks have led to a continuous and significant decline in the amount of marine fish caught. the cfp should therefore pay much more attention to sustainable fisheries, i.e. aquaculture, and in particular freshwater fisheries. a significant part of the hungarian wetlands is located in natura 2000 areas. these fish farms do not represent any threat to the natural values of these areas. in fact, in many cases it is our closed systems of wetlands that have created and preserved unique associations of aquatic habitats. consequently, freshwater aquaculture should be freed from unnecessarily stringent and unnecessary sustainability standards that are justified only for marine fisheries. efforts should be made to define and regulate freshwater aquaculture clearly now.
in writing. ‒ as a member of the fidesz-kdnp delegation, i voted in favour of the report on the multiannual plan for the baltic stocks of cod, herring and sprat and their fisheries. this document also clearly shows that 30% of the world's seas are overfished, and the survival of marine fish stocks is at risk. the justified measures taken to maintain marine fish stocks have led to a continuous and significant decline in the amount of marine fish caught. the cfp should therefore pay much more attention to sustainable fisheries, i.e. aquaculture, and in particular freshwater fisheries. a significant part of the hungarian wetlands is located in natura 2000 areas. these fish farms do not represent any threat to the natural values of these areas. in fact, in many cases it is our closed systems of wetlands that have created and preserved unique associations of aquatic habitats. consequently, freshwater aquaculture should be freed from unnecessarily stringent and unnecessary sustainability standards that are justified only for marine fisheries. efforts should be made to define and regulate freshwater aquaculture clearly now.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the multiannual plan for the baltic stocks of cod, herring and sprat and their fisheries. this report also clearly shows that 30% of the world's seas are overfished, and the survival of marine fish stocks is at risk. the justified measures taken to maintain marine fish stocks have led to a continuous and significant decline in the amount of marine fish caught. the cfp should therefore pay much more attention to sustainable fisheries, i.e. aquaculture, and in particular freshwater fisheries. a significant part of the hungarian wetlands is located in natura 2000 areas. these fish farms do not represent any threat to the natural values of these areas. in fact, in many cases it is our closed systems of wetlands that have created and preserved unique associations of aquatic habitats. consequently, freshwater aquaculture should be freed from unnecessarily stringent and unnecessary sustainability standards that are justified only for marine fisheries. efforts should be made to define and regulate freshwater aquaculture clearly now.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the multiannual plan for the baltic stocks of cod, herring and sprat and their fisheries. this report also clearly shows that 30% of the world's seas are overfished, and the survival of marine fish stocks is at risk. the justified measures taken to maintain marine fish stocks have led to a continuous and significant decline in the amount of marine fish caught. the cfp should therefore pay much more attention to sustainable fisheries, i.e. aquaculture, and in particular freshwater fisheries.
in writing. ‒ we have a responsibility for our environment, including fisheries in our seas. the preservation of the baltic sea ecosystem and the ecological balance of fish stocks is an important european task. i therefore supported the report, which calls for a balanced plan for fisheries, which is constantly monitored by scientific methods.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the landing obligation. this report also clearly shows that 30% of the world's seas are overfished, and the survival of marine fish stocks is at risk. the justified measures taken to maintain marine fish stocks have led to a continuous and significant decline in the amount of marine fish caught. the cfp should therefore pay much more attention to sustainable fisheries, i.e. aquaculture, and in particular freshwater fisheries. a significant part of the hungarian wetlands is located in natura 2000 areas. these fish farms do not represent any threat to the natural values of these areas. in fact, in many cases it is our closed systems of wetlands that have created and preserved unique associations of aquatic habitats. consequently, freshwater aquaculture should be freed from unnecessarily stringent and unnecessary sustainability standards that are justified only for marine fisheries. efforts should be made to define and regulate freshwater aquaculture clearly now.
in writing. ‒ the accession of croatia to the european union requires the updating of the agreements concluded by the eu and its predecessors to take account of the new situation. hungary, including fidesz-kdnp, has consistently argued in favour of accepting croatian integration aspirations, and i therefore voted in favour of the draft council decision on the conclusion of the protocol to the partnership and cooperation agreement establishing an ec-russia partnership, to take account of the accession of croatia to the union.
in writing. ‒ the protocol incorporates croatia as a party to the partnership and cooperation agreement between the european community and russia with effect from the date of accession of croatia. this is a necessary technical amendment which i voted in favour of. as regards eu-russia relations, i would draw the commission's attention to the fact that hungary was excluded from the third round of eu compensation for the damage to the fruit and vegetable market caused by the russian agricultural embargo, which was granted at the end of last year, as were croatia, slovenia and romania. the quantity of advance requests received in hungary last september was more than 10 000 tonnes, which is an order of magnitude higher than the quantity allocated to the country in the second round. this was mitigated by the free allocation of 3 000 tonnes in the second round, which hungary was only able to use partially due to the short time available. that framework is no longer available to my country, although it would be very justified. on the basis of the above, i call on the commission to provide farmers in hungary, croatia, slovenia and romania with additional compensation to reduce their losses caused by the crisis of overproduction. it can do so by extending the time of use of the second-round framework or by announcing a new framework of 3 000 tonnes which can be freely used.
in writing. ‒ with the accession of croatia to the eu, it has become necessary to include croatia as a party to the partnership and cooperation agreement establishing a partnership between the ec and croatia. the council may adopt a protocol to this effect only with parliament's consent.
in writing. ‒ i have voted in favour of the parliament's approval of the draft council decision on the conclusion, on behalf of the european union and its member states, of the protocol to the partnership and cooperation agreement establishing a partnership between the european communities and their member states, of the one part, and the russian federation, of the other part, to take account of the accession of the republic of croatia to the european union.
the bologna process, the reform of european higher education, was launched 15 years ago. we would have expected the report to have a real balance sheet of what has been successful, what has been a failure, what needs to be changed. unfortunately, this has not been the case, although we must face the fact that the main objective of creating a training system that meets the demands of the labour market has not been achieved. and it's not because the bologna system was used to dismantle the two-tiered, dual system of higher education that had been working well, the college-university system. and here's the report that says that there needs to be stronger consultation within the higher education community to end opposition to the bologna reforms. it's not marketing that's needed, it's real balance sheet preparation, evaluation and change.
in writing. ‒ the european parliament adopted a comprehensive report on the follow-up to the implementation of the bologna process, with a report by ms krystyna lybacka. in line with the fidesz-kdnp group's position, i believe that the report's targeted recommendations will lead to progress in higher education. the bologna reforms have launched the european higher education area and have led to significant achievements over the past 15 years in making higher education systems more comparable, increasing mobility, ensuring quality assurance systems and the recognition of diplomas, improving the quality of education systems and increasing the attractiveness of european higher education. within the bologna process, much remains to be done in terms of adapting education systems to labour market needs, improving overall employability and competitiveness, and enhancing the attractiveness of european higher education. the european parliament calls on the countries of the european higher education area to implement the reforms agreed by them, which aim to accelerate the achievement of the objectives of the bologna process and to enhance the credibility of the european higher education area. unfortunately, some member states and their higher education institutions still do not recognise each other's degrees and qualifications in the european higher education area, which can lead to disadvantages. i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ the european parliament adopted a comprehensive report on the follow-up to the implementation of the bologna process, with a report by ms krystyna lybacka. in line with the fidesz-kdnp group's position, i believe that the report's targeted recommendations will lead to progress in higher education. the bologna reforms have launched the european higher education area and have led to significant achievements over the past 15 years in making higher education systems more comparable, increasing mobility, ensuring quality assurance systems and the recognition of diplomas, improving the quality of education systems and increasing the attractiveness of european higher education. within the bologna process, much remains to be done in terms of adapting education systems to labour market needs, improving overall employability and competitiveness, and enhancing the attractiveness of european higher education. the european parliament calls on the countries of the european higher education area to implement the reforms agreed by them, which aim to accelerate the achievement of the objectives of the bologna process and to enhance the credibility of the european higher education area. unfortunately, some member states and their higher education institutions still do not recognise each other's degrees and qualifications in the european higher education area, which can lead to disadvantages. i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ the european parliament adopted a comprehensive report on the follow-up to the implementation of the bologna process, with a report by ms krystyna lybacka. in line with the fidesz-kdnp group's position, i believe that the report's targeted recommendations will lead to progress in higher education. the bologna reforms have launched the european higher education area and have led to significant achievements over the past 15 years in making higher education systems more comparable, increasing mobility, ensuring quality assurance systems and the recognition of diplomas, improving the quality of education systems and increasing the attractiveness of european higher education. within the bologna process, much remains to be done in terms of adapting education systems to labour market needs, improving overall employability and competitiveness, and enhancing the attractiveness of european higher education. the european parliament calls on the countries of the european higher education area to implement the reforms agreed by them, which are intended to accelerate the achievement of the objectives of the bologna process and to enhance the credibility of the european higher education area. unfortunately, some member states and their higher education institutions still do not recognise each other's degrees and qualifications in the european higher education area, which can lead to disadvantages. i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ the european parliament adopted a comprehensive report on the follow-up to the implementation of the bologna process, with a report by ms krystyna lybacka. in line with the fidesz-kdnp group's position, i believe that the report's targeted recommendations will lead to progress in higher education. the bologna reforms have launched the european higher education area and have led to significant achievements over the past 15 years in making higher education systems more comparable, increasing mobility, ensuring quality assurance systems and the recognition of diplomas, improving the quality of education systems and increasing the attractiveness of european higher education. within the bologna process, much remains to be done in terms of adapting education systems to labour market needs, improving overall employability and competitiveness, and enhancing the attractiveness of european higher education. the european parliament calls on the countries of the european higher education area to implement the reforms agreed by them, which aim to accelerate the achievement of the objectives of the bologna process and to enhance the credibility of the european higher education area. unfortunately, some member states and their higher education institutions still do not recognise each other's degrees and qualifications in the european higher education area, which can lead to disadvantages. i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ the european parliament adopted a comprehensive report on the follow-up to the implementation of the bologna process, with a report by ms krystyna lybacka. in line with the fidesz-kdnp group's position, i believe that the report's targeted recommendations will lead to progress in higher education. the bologna reforms have launched the european higher education area and have led to significant achievements over the past 15 years in making higher education systems more comparable, increasing mobility, ensuring quality assurance systems and the recognition of diplomas, improving the quality of education systems and increasing the attractiveness of european higher education. within the bologna process, much remains to be done in terms of adapting education systems to labour market needs, improving overall employability and competitiveness, and enhancing the attractiveness of european higher education. the european parliament calls on the countries of the european higher education area to implement the reforms agreed by them, which aim to accelerate the achievement of the objectives of the bologna process and to enhance the credibility of the european higher education area. unfortunately, some member states and their higher education institutions still do not recognise each other's degrees and qualifications in the european higher education area, which can lead to disadvantages.
in writing. ‒ the european parliament adopted a comprehensive report on the follow-up to the implementation of the bologna process, with a report by ms krystyna lybacka. in line with the fidesz-kdnp group's position, i believe that the report's targeted recommendations will lead to progress in higher education. the bologna reforms have launched the european higher education area and have led to significant achievements over the past 15 years in making higher education systems more comparable, increasing mobility, ensuring quality assurance systems and the recognition of diplomas, improving the quality of education systems and increasing the attractiveness of european higher education. within the bologna process, much remains to be done in terms of adapting education systems to labour market needs, improving overall employability and competitiveness, and enhancing the attractiveness of european higher education. the european parliament calls on the countries of the european higher education area to implement the reforms agreed by them, which aim to accelerate the achievement of the objectives of the bologna process and to enhance the credibility of the european higher education area. unfortunately, some member states and their higher education institutions still do not recognise each other's degrees and qualifications in the european higher education area, which can lead to disadvantages. i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ the european parliament adopted a comprehensive report on the follow-up to the implementation of the bologna process, with a report by ms krystyna lybacka. in line with the fidesz-kdnp group's position, i believe that the report's targeted recommendations will lead to progress in higher education. the bologna reforms have launched the european higher education area and have led to significant achievements over the past 15 years in making higher education systems more comparable, increasing mobility, ensuring quality assurance systems and the recognition of diplomas, improving the quality of education systems and increasing the attractiveness of european higher education. within the bologna process, much remains to be done in terms of adapting education systems to labour market needs, improving overall employability and competitiveness, and enhancing the attractiveness of european higher education. the european parliament calls on the countries of the european higher education area to implement the reforms agreed by them, which aim to accelerate the achievement of the objectives of the bologna process and to enhance the credibility of the european higher education area. unfortunately, some member states and their higher education institutions still do not recognise each other's degrees and qualifications in the european higher education area, which can lead to disadvantages. i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ the european parliament adopted a comprehensive document on the follow-up to the implementation of the bologna process, with a report by ms krystyna lybacka. in line with the fidesz-kdnp group's position, i believe that the report's targeted recommendations will lead to progress in higher education. the bologna reforms have launched the european higher education area and have led to significant achievements over the past 15 years in making higher education systems more comparable, increasing mobility, ensuring quality assurance systems and the recognition of diplomas, improving the quality of education systems and increasing the attractiveness of european higher education. within the bologna process, much remains to be done in terms of adapting education systems to labour market needs, improving overall employability and competitiveness, and enhancing the attractiveness of european higher education. the european parliament calls on the countries of the european higher education area to implement the reforms agreed by them, which aim to accelerate the achievement of the objectives of the bologna process and to enhance the credibility of the european higher education area. unfortunately, some member states and their higher education institutions still do not recognise each other's degrees and qualifications in the european higher education area, which can lead to disadvantages. i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ the european parliament adopted a comprehensive report on the follow-up to the implementation of the bologna process, with a report by ms krystyna lybacka. in line with the fidesz-kdnp group's position, i believe that the report's targeted recommendations will lead to progress in higher education. the bologna reforms have launched the european higher education area and have led to significant achievements over the past 15 years in making higher education systems more comparable, increasing mobility, ensuring quality assurance systems and the recognition of diplomas, improving the quality of education systems and increasing the attractiveness of european higher education. within the bologna process, much remains to be done in terms of adapting education systems to labour market needs, improving overall employability and competitiveness, and enhancing the attractiveness of european higher education. the european parliament calls on the countries of the european higher education area to implement the reforms agreed by them, which aim to accelerate the achievement of the objectives of the bologna process and to enhance the credibility of the european higher education area. unfortunately, some member states and their higher education institutions still do not recognise each other's degrees and qualifications in the european higher education area, which can lead to disadvantages. i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. - the house of honor. the bologna process is a great new trend in european education, which will result in a new, interconnected, free and efficient network of higher education that can compete globally with other large systems of higher education and contribute to strengthening the common european spirit. i agree that this process has made significant progress in the last 15 years. among the recommendations in the report, i find particularly important that scholarships should be used to ensure that higher education is accessible to as many young people as possible. i also consider it essential to make further progress in the areas of credit transfer, interoperability, student and teacher mobility and quality assurance. the positive effects of the bologna process can also help the development of the public education system if the ideas on teacher training and the involvement of secondary school teachers are realised. overall, it is in our common interest to continue, broaden and deepen the bologna process: a path towards a more successful, more civilised and more cohesive europe.
in writing. ‒ the implementation of the bologna process is crucial to have a high-quality, coherent and transparent higher education sector, which exists in an excellent way. this document summarises the european system of higher education, and i fully support the s&d position on bologna process in an understandable, accessible and credible way in order to ensure compatibility and comparability of standards and quality across different higher educational systems, support mobility and internationalisation, while respecting the diversity and autonomy of individual countries and universities.
in writing. ‒ the european cinema in the digital age report aims to support and promote european cinema, its distribution and awareness, so that everyone can benefit from its cultural heritage. the film has both cultural and economic value in society. an audiovisual sector that contributes to economic growth, job creation and stimulates innovation in the european digital market. film education can have a significant impact on individuals, influencing the development of young people's personalities and their perception of the world. the introduction of film education at all levels of education in the member states therefore plays a very important role and has long-term benefits. interacting with european films is the best way to learn about the history, culture, traditions and languages of our european neighbours. in line with the position of the fidesz-kdnp group, i voted in favour of the adoption of the report.
in writing. ‒ the european cinema in the digital age report aims to support and promote european cinema, its distribution and awareness, so that everyone can benefit from its cultural heritage. the film has both cultural and economic value in society. an audiovisual sector that contributes to economic growth, job creation and stimulates innovation in the european digital market. film education can have a significant impact on individuals, influencing the development of young people's personalities and their perception of the world. the introduction of film education at all levels of education in the member states therefore plays a very important role and has long-term benefits. interacting with european films is the best way to learn about the history, culture, traditions and languages of our european neighbours. in line with the position of the fidesz-kdnp group, i voted in favour of the adoption of the report.
in writing. ‒ european cinema in the digital age aims to support and promote european cinema, its distribution and awareness, so that everyone can benefit from its cultural heritage. the film has both cultural and economic value in society. an audiovisual sector that contributes to economic growth, job creation and stimulates innovation in the european digital market. film education can have a significant impact on individuals, influencing the development of young people's personalities and their perception of the world. the introduction of film education at all levels of education in the member states therefore plays a very important role and has long-term benefits. interacting with european films is the best way to learn about the history, culture, traditions and languages of our european neighbours. in line with the position of the fidesz-kdnp group, i voted in favour of the adoption of the report.
in writing. ‒ the european cinema in the digital age report aims to support and promote european cinema, its distribution and awareness, so that everyone can benefit from its cultural heritage. the film has both cultural and economic value in society. a audiovisual sector that contributes to economic growth, creates new jobs and stimulates innovation in the european digital market. film education can have a significant impact on individuals, influencing the development of young people's personalities and their perception of the world. the introduction of film education at all levels of education in the member states therefore has a very important role to play and long-term benefits. interacting with european films is the best way to learn about the history, culture, traditions and languages of our european neighbours. in line with the position of the fidesz-kdnp group, i voted in favour of the adoption of the report.
in writing. ‒ european cinema in the digital age aims to support and promote european cinema, its distribution and awareness, so that everyone can benefit from its cultural heritage. the film has both cultural and economic value in society. an audiovisual sector that contributes to economic growth, job creation and stimulates innovation in the european digital market. film education can have a significant impact on individuals, influencing the development of young people's personalities and their perception of the world. the introduction of film education at all levels of education in the member states therefore plays a very important role and has long-term benefits. interacting with european films is the best way to learn about the history, culture, traditions and languages of our european neighbours. in line with the position of the fidesz-kdnp group, i voted in favour of the adoption of the report.
in writing. ‒ european cinema in the digital age aims to support european cinema and to increase its promotion, distribution and visibility so that everyone can benefit from its cultural heritage. the film has both cultural and economic value in society. an audiovisual sector that contributes to economic growth, job creation and stimulates innovation in the european digital market. film education can have a significant impact on individuals, influencing the development of young people's personalities and their perception of the world. the introduction of film education at all levels of education in the member states therefore plays a very important role and has long-term benefits. interacting with european films is the best way to learn about the history, culture, traditions and languages of our european neighbours. in line with the position of the fidesz-kdnp group, i voted in favour of the adoption of the report.
in writing. ‒ european cinema in the digital age aims to support and promote european cinema, its distribution and awareness, so that everyone can benefit from its cultural heritage. the film has both cultural and economic value in society. an audiovisual sector that contributes to economic growth, job creation and stimulates innovation in the european digital market. film education can have a significant impact on individuals, influencing the development of young people's personalities and their perception of the world. the introduction of film education at all levels of education in the member states therefore plays a very important role and has long-term benefits. interacting with european films is the best way to learn about the history, culture, traditions and languages of our european neighbours. in line with the position of the fidesz-kdnp group, i voted in favour of the adoption of the report.
in writing. ‒ european cinema in the digital age aims to support european cinema and to increase its promotion, distribution and visibility so that everyone can benefit from its cultural heritage. the film has both cultural and economic value in society. an audiovisual sector that contributes to economic growth, job creation and stimulates innovation in the european digital market. film education can have a significant impact on individuals, influencing the development of young people's personalities and their perception of the world. the introduction of film education at all levels of education in the member states therefore plays a very important role and has long-term benefits. interacting with european films is the best way to learn about the history, culture, traditions and languages of our european neighbours. in line with the position of the fidesz-kdnp group, i voted in favour of the adoption of the report.
in writing. ‒ the european cinema in the digital age report aims to support and promote european cinema, its distribution and awareness, so that everyone can benefit from its cultural heritage. the film has both cultural and economic value in society. an audiovisual sector that contributes to economic growth, job creation and stimulates innovation in the european digital market. film education can have a significant impact on individuals, influencing the development of young people's personalities and their perception of the world. the introduction of film education at all levels of education in the member states therefore has a very important role to play and long-term benefits. interacting with european films is the best way to learn about the history, culture, traditions and languages of our european neighbours. in line with the position of the fidesz-kdnp group, i voted in favour of the adoption of the report.
in writing. ‒ the film industry can also contribute to strengthening the europe of nations by preserving and bringing to a wider audience the richness of its diverse cultural heritage. we need to strike a balance with the american-made, largely worthless cinema. this is facilitated by the fact that the budgetary appropriations for the following years support the distribution of more than 800 european films, both within and outside europe. the programme also aims to provide ongoing support to more than 800 european film festivals promoting regional films. i voted in favour of the report because the funding provided provides new audiences for european audiovisual works and safeguards cultural and linguistic diversity.
in writing. the report takes into account the significant cultural and economic importance of film in europe and, on this basis, considers what the member states and the european institutions have to do to support the preservation of this prominent role. the report provides a clear picture of the sectoral strategies and regulation needed to achieve this. i consider it particularly important that member states pay greater attention to developing audiovisual literacy, so that the adults of the future are better informed about the new digital and image-based world, and to maintain a cultural audience, including a cinema-savvy audience, in europe. i also welcome the creation of the creative europe guarantee fund, which allows small businesses to successfully engage in the creation of cultural productions and supports the european cultural scene to be enriched by the involvement of new and emerging artists.
in writing. ‒ i agree with the rapporteur that creation in the audiovisual sector as in sport is a real team effort, where each participant contributes to the ultimate success of the team. support for european cinema is a common european value. each eu institution must play its part and play its role. i think it's very important that we support the digitization of films as part of our cultural heritage. the film has a dual role, both cultural and economic. a sector that unites in its diversity contributes to economic growth, creates new jobs and stimulates innovation in the european digital market. that is why i supported the adoption of the report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution setting out the main lines of the eu's forest strategy. the directions contained in it correspond to hungarian ideas and interests. i am particularly pleased that the report states, in the first place, that any attempt to bring forestry up to community level is unacceptable to the european parliament. the main request of hungarian foresters is also to respect the local and regional nature of the sector and the competence of the member states. i fully agree that the eu should support national policies to achieve active, multifunctional, sustainable forest management, including management of different types of forests, and strengthen cooperation to tackle cross-border challenges such as forest fires, climate change and natural disasters. forests and forestry workers play a vital role in rural life, without which rural development is unthinkable. forest management should therefore be adequately supported in rural development programmes under the cap for the period 2014-2020. the hungarian rural development programme is providing adequate support for our forests. finally, thanks to my contribution, the report has a separate chapter on the promotion of wood as a sustainable resource. i support the resource-efficient use of wood, and there should be no legally binding priorities for wood use.
in writing. ‒ despite the increasing rate of deforestation worldwide, more than 42% of the eu's territory is covered by forests and half of the renewable energy used in the eu is provided by biomass (mainly wood). the new eu forestry strategy aims to protect this important resource, with the main focus on sustainable use of forests and woodlands, competitiveness and job creation. i voted in favour of the report because i believe it is important to increase the number of leisure activities linked to forest areas in order to improve the quality of life of eu citizens, while not harming biodiversity, the environment and ecosystems.
in writing. more and more people are realizing that carbon trading and storage procedures are the tools of a massive fraud and money laundering. one of the real solutions is forestry. our forests provide not only jobs and timber but also shelter for animals, fresh air for people, and spiritual refreshment. i supported the report despite its flaws. we should not forget that the resources we have used to store and allocate carbon dioxide could have saved the tropical rainforests from extinction and already restored the earth's atmosphere to balance.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on a new eu forest management strategy for forests and the forestry sector. i believe that this will create the opportunity to create a framework for more effective forest management and to increase competitiveness, which will create more jobs. the new eu forest strategy takes account of evolving social and political expectations and the huge potential for employment and growth in forestry. in addition to these elements, forestry naturally plays a key role in the fight against climate change, natural disasters or invasive species, and these points are therefore given priority in the adopted resolution. i also think that the strategy places a strong emphasis on the role of forestry in energy production, research and development and training of foresters. to implement this, the european parliament encourages the european commission to develop a comprehensive, objective criteria and implementation system for sustainable forest management in close cooperation with member states, local authorities and forest owners.
in writing. ‒ the importance of forestry is shown by the fact that it is the third largest employer in europe, with over 3.5 million jobs, just behind the metal and food industries. a well-constructed and coordinated forestry strategy is very important in the eu's agricultural policy. the rapporteur has collected in detail almost all the important areas of forestry. i agree with the statement that more resources should be devoted to research and development. i supported the adoption of the report.
it's a two-card draw. i was actually going to ask mrs grassle, also of the people's party, but she will be able to answer here. as long as there is no european public prosecutor, there is fraud. in your opinion, when the government of a country operates corruption at the system level, because it exists unfortunately in the european union, this is my country in hungary, the hungarian government, your ranks sits in fidesz, what do you intend to do against it?
she must be a woman. unlike one of the previous speakers, we think there is a great need for a european public prosecutor. among other reasons, the misuse of eu and community funds, politically motivated corruption and the intolerable interconnection of politics and economy are serious problems in many european community countries. this collusion, this kind of corruption, is undermining the trust of the citizens, the voters, the trust in the european community. they do not see that the european union is helping them to achieve their goals. we think that there is a need for a european public prosecutor's office, a european public prosecutor's office that is completely independent of the member states, because we know that there are a number of european member states that refuse to comply with the common rules, refuse to comply with the basic principles of the fight against corruption. this is why an independent and autonomous european public prosecutor's office is needed.
the establishment of a european public prosecutor's office is essential to combating cross-border crime and corruption affecting the european budget. most people, at least those who support european integration, seem to agree. unfortunately, however, a number of member states are trying to undermine this proposal out of fear. because of fear that some governments in some member states might be uncomfortable with such an institution, governments that are themselves involved in corruption. that's why the watered-down proposal was started. there's a proposal to create a network-type prosecutor's office, an organization. this is to be firmly rejected. this would nominally create the institution of the prosecution, but in practice it would not be functional. the exception for vat fraud has also been introduced, although these are the cases where the european public prosecutor's office is most needed. our proposal is that parliament should only adopt a proposal for a european public prosecutor's office that is capable of acting. the rest is just a waste of money.
in writing. the eu budget is cut by hundreds of billions of euros a year as a result of fraud and corruption in individual member states. in many cases, however, no charges are brought or no investigation is conducted. this is a particularly big problem in hungary, where since 2010, with the active involvement of the government, eu funds have been pouring into the pockets of businessmen close to the government. this is evidenced by the recent suspension of eu funds worth huf 700 billion by the european commission, as fraud or corrupt pricing practices or irregularities were detected in one third of eu projects since 2010. it is therefore not surprising that the hungarian government, which has fallen to the level of venezuela in terms of corruption, opposes the commission's proposal to set up an independent european public prosecutor's office. only an independent european public prosecutor's office can put an end to the institutionalised corruption driven by the current ruling parties. the eu's position on the eu's role in the world is that it is not a political entity, but a political entity. the european commission should consider that in future only those member states that accept the exclusive jurisdiction of the european public prosecutor's office as from 2016 will receive eu funds. otherwise, the eu funds in hungary are not used to catch up with hungary, but to further enrich those close to the government.
my fellow members of the house of representatives! i would like to draw your attention to two points concerning the discharge of the parliament. one is the issue of transparency. the current report is a small step towards enhancing transparency, but it needs to go further. we need to be transparent and accountable, not just to the institutions, but to ourselves. the transparency of the framework available to members of parliament should be further enhanced. there are proposals in the text to that effect, and they should be voted on, and i think that further steps are needed. i would also like to point out that in the case of parliament, we should not only be discussing the issues of the paris climate summit at the end of the year and adopting resolutions on these issues, but we should also be making progress ourselves in greening the way parliament works, reducing carbon dioxide emissions, and this could also mean budgetary savings through energy efficiency. i would like to highlight only two elements in relation to the agencies, one of which is the question of frontex, which has been mentioned by others. the tragedies of the past period have highlighted the need for more funding for frontex and in particular for the assistance to refugees, but we also see that its accountability and transparency are not adequate for this expenditure. the budget for frontex can only be increased if there is complete clarity on how and in what way the money is spent.
in writing.– it is difficult to imagine corruption without the contribution of players who have the ability to abuse resources – mostly public resources – for the purpose of generating a private; only people with some kind of power in their hands are able to act as such. in order to prevent those powerful people from misusing public money we need people to counter them. today, we cannot talk about a serious anti-corruption policy without meaningful protection for these brave men and women. whistleblowers play an important role in a democracy ensuring vital information in the public interest is brought to light. the level of the extent to which legal means and guarantees that serve to protect whistleblowers as well as the level of specially protected reporting channels are shockingly uneven when it comes to the different member states. in view of the anomalies of different regulations, the weakness of national institutions, and recent atrocities and lawsuits brought against whistleblowers, it is high time that whistleblowers were guaranteed protection minimum across europe. the resolution voted by the ep in march on the report on the fight against fraud has demanded the commission to propose legislation to this end and stop stalling.
it's a two-card draw. - i'm not sure. it must be a noble purpose and intention that prompted your remarks. there are a lot of people in the people's party that we agree with on a lot of things. but let me ask you a very simple question. you have read that in one of the member states, a party leader of your party family is preparing a country to rebel here in europe against our common goals, against european values. do you know that viktor orbán wants to spend more than 30 million euros right now, these days, to raise questions that will destroy all the problems we are trying to solve together? have you spoken to viktor orbán about these issues recently? it's a simple question i have.
in writing. saving human life in an emergency is our moral duty. at the same time, we have a responsibility within the union to prevent or prevent more and more people from being put at the crossroads of life and death. we must therefore take decisive action against the networks of human traffickers, and we must do everything we can to prevent thousands of people from taking such risky journeys. it's not enough to treat a fever, you have to treat the disease. hungary has seen a 20-fold increase in the number of illegal immigrants this year, and we are the fifth most affected member state. it is no wonder that when people are concerned about immigration policy, hungarians can distinguish between genuine refugees (after 1956 every family will know this through their personal fate) and illegal immigrants for a living. in today's debate, the hungarian prime minister was again unjustly attacked, this time for launching a consultation. as in other public affairs, the hungarian prime minister will ask people's opinions on the issue of illegal immigration before forming his position. what kind of democrats are they who are afraid of the people's opinion?
in writing. i welcome the decision of the representatives of the european council and the commission to take decisive action following another tragedy in the mediterranean. the 10-point plan could help curb human smuggling and reduce pressure on the eu's borders. however, this plan is not sufficient to solve the problem. providing asylum to those who leave crisis zones in fear of their lives is a fundamental moral and legal obligation. i therefore support the commission president's view that only if europe takes a shared responsibility for refugees can there be real progress. the new common asylum policy should establish legal pathways for asylum seekers and promote burden-sharing in the areas of border surveillance, rescue, reception and integration. i must also say that there are politicians in this house and elsewhere in europe who are playing a shameful game in this tragic situation, and using these terrible events to stir up resentment against refugees, immigrants and all minorities. it is unfortunate that the prime minister of hungary is among these politicians. they have not only failed morally but have also proved politically unfit to solve the problems of the people of europe.
in writing. i consider the extraordinary european council meeting on the mass disaster in the mediterranean to discuss the issue of migration and adopt a concerted package of measures to be an important gesture of the eu's political commitment and capacity to act. but i find the eit's results insufficient for the tragedy and the gravity of the problem. i agree with president juncker's assessment and his intention that the commission should present a more radical package of measures to member states to address the causes. it is regrettable that the decisions of the etuc do not reflect the full unity of the member states and the level of solidarity that is expected from european values. as a left-wing, socialist politician in hungary, i am particularly pained by the fact that one of the biggest obstacles to the real implementation of european solidarity is the anti-foreigner rhetoric and policy of the orbán government. this government is also using the tragedy in the mediterranean to turn the population of the country against refugees and immigrants through a questionnaire disguised as a "consultation" conducted on a large scale at considerable expense, presenting them as a potential base for international terrorism and one of the main sources of domestic economic and social problems. the questions also suggest that the eu's inaction is the main source of migration problems and that the issue should be left to national jurisdiction. i also believe that it is important to establish as soon as possible an effective, unified, people-centred european strategy on refugees to counter such cynical, anti-eu views and policies.
mr. president, i have to ask you... i would like to draw your attention to the fact that paragraphs 43 and 44 were excluded from the vote on the basis of the original voting list, if the vote on paragraph 42 is positive. however, as far as i am aware, this voting list has been amended and we should have voted on the original text of paragraphs 43 and 44. in our view, the wording of paragraph (43)
in writing. ‒ following the presentation of the annual report of the european court of auditors for the financial year 2013, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out a financial audit of the general budget of the european union concerning the european commission and the executive agencies in the context of the closure of the accounts procedure for 2013. the committee's primary task is to ensure and monitor the proper and efficient implementation of the community budget. the court of auditors has stated that the agency's accounts for the financial year 2013 are reliable and that the underlying transactions were legal and regular. it is important to emphasise that errors in payments still occur and that the supervision and control systems are only partially effective. it shall draw attention to the principles of cost efficiency and cost discipline. the final audit report concludes that the financial review was carried out in an orderly manner and that no major deficiencies were found during the investigation. the committee decided at its meeting at the end of march to grant the discharge and to close the 2013 accounts. i voted in committee and in plenary to grant the discharge.
in writing. ‒ in line with the european people's party's line, i voted in favour of granting budgetary discharge to the european commission. however, during the debate on the dossier in the committee on agriculture, some lines were raised by the rapporteur with which i do not agree. fortunately, we were able to rule them out. the classification of smaller eu support programmes such as the school milk and school fruit schemeinto the rural development pillar would be an ill-considered solution. in hungary, in the current eu funding cycle, 72% of eu aid is allocated to cap pillar i (direct aids + market measures) and 28% to cap pillar ii (rural development). the transfer of the financing of small eu support programmes to pillar ii would effectively bring these programmes to a halt, as rural development would not have sufficient additional resources to finance these programmes. their budget must therefore remain in pillar i, where the necessary funds are provided. bringing the member states' paying agencies under union supervision would, on the one hand, significantly limit national sovereignty in the use of union funds and, on the other hand, infringe the provisions on the division of competences in the eu treaties. therefore, this solution should not be accepted either.
in writing. ‒ the committee on budgetary control presented 52 reports on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of certain eu institutions for the financial year 2013. all reports are based on the court's examination and recommend the closure of the accounts of the institution concerned for the financial year 2013. i voted for the motions on that basis.
in writing. ‒ the opinion of the committee on transport has been incorporated to a large extent in the report on the discharge for the general budget of the eu for 2013. the report summarises in detail the budgetary tasks to be carried out in the regions of the member states in order to allow the most efficient use of resources. i voted for the 2013 discharge.
in writing. ‒ the youth unemployment rate has been at a dramatic level for years and is rising steadily. the eu has developed a number of instruments to support member states in tackling the threats facing many young people. one of those instruments is the youth employment initiative, which aims to contribute to the achievement of the policy objectives of the youth guarantee in those parts of europe where youth unemployment is highest. member states have not yet made sufficient use of this tool, which is available to regions with unemployment rates above 25% for those aged 15 to 25. one reason for this inadequate utilisation rate is the lack of public funds needed for projects aimed at providing young people with employment, traineeships or training. the member states most affected by youth unemployment are also those with the greatest difficulties in coping with co-financing. to enable the member states concerned to launch these important projects, the european commission has decided to take urgent action to release €1 billion. the increase in the envelope will be used to increase the pre-financing of the 2015 operational programmes, giving a new impetus to the fight against unemployment. i agree with the political objectives of the european commission and the means it has set up to achieve them.
in writing. ‒ in the fight against youth unemployment, and in particular for the member states most in need, the european parliament today amended the european social fund (esf) regulation to provide more rapid assistance to over 7 million unemployed young europeans through the european youth initiative (eyi). the previous rules across europe were less suitable for launching more flexible and effective measures, so hungary independently initiated programmes targeting young people. on this basis, the greatest reduction in youth unemployment has been in hungary over the past two years. just a reminder: in hungary, the unemployment rate for the 15-24 generation was only 11% in 2002, but by 2010 it had almost doubled and increased by half (27%). today, it's about 20 percent, which is better than the french, belgian or swedish data. the increased amount of pre-financing and the procedural changes may also be more beneficial for hungary, which is why i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ in the fight against youth unemployment, and in particular for the member states most in need, the european parliament today amended the european social fund (esf) regulation to provide more rapid assistance to over 7 million unemployed young europeans through the european youth initiative (eyi). the previous rules across europe were less suited to launching more flexible and effective measures, so my country, hungary, also independently initiated programmes for young people. on this basis, the greatest reduction in youth unemployment has been in hungary over the past two years. as a reminder, in my country, the unemployment rate for the 15-24 generation was only 11% in 2002, but by 2010 it had risen to almost two and a half times (27%) today, it's about 20 percent, which is better than the french, belgian or swedish data. the increased amount of pre-financing and the procedural changes may also be more beneficial for hungary, which is why i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ in the fight against youth unemployment, and in particular for the member states most in need, the european parliament today amended the european social fund (esf) regulation to provide more rapid assistance to over 7 million unemployed young europeans through the european youth initiative (eyi). the previous rules across europe were less suited to launching more flexible and effective measures, so my country, hungary, also independently initiated programmes for young people. on this basis, the greatest reduction in youth unemployment has been in hungary over the past two years. as a reminder, in my country, the unemployment rate for the 15-24 generation was only 11% in 2002, but by 2010 it had risen to almost two and a half times (27%) today, it's about 20 percent, which is better than the french, belgian or swedish data. the increased amount of pre-financing and the procedural changes may also be more beneficial for hungary, which is why i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ in the fight against youth unemployment, and in particular for the member states most in need, the european parliament today amended the european social fund (esf) regulation to provide more rapid assistance to over 7 million unemployed young europeans through the european youth initiative (eyi). the previous rules across europe were less suited to launching more flexible and effective measures, so my country, hungary, also independently initiated programmes for young people. on this basis, the greatest reduction in youth unemployment has been in hungary over the past two years. as a reminder, in my country, the unemployment rate for the 15-24 generation was only 11% in 2002, but by 2010 it had risen to almost two and a half times (27%) today, it's about 20 percent, which is better than the french, belgian or swedish data. the increased amount of pre-financing and the procedural changes may also be more beneficial for hungary, which is why i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ in the fight against youth unemployment, and in particular for the member states most in need, the european parliament today amended the european social fund (esf) regulation to provide more rapid assistance to over 7 million unemployed young europeans through the european youth initiative (eyi). the previous rules across europe were less suited to launching more flexible and effective measures, so my country, hungary, also independently initiated programmes for young people. on this basis, the greatest reduction in youth unemployment has been in hungary over the past two years. as a reminder, in my country, the unemployment rate for the 15-24 generation was only 11% in 2002, but by 2010 it had risen to almost two and a half times (27%) today, it's about 20 percent, which is better than the french, belgian or swedish data. the increased amount of pre-financing and the procedural changes may also be more beneficial for hungary, which is why i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ in the fight against youth unemployment, and in particular for the member states most in need, the european parliament today amended the european social fund (esf) regulation to provide more rapid assistance to over 7 million unemployed young europeans through the european youth initiative (eyi). the previous rules across europe were less suited to launching more flexible and effective measures, so my country, hungary, also independently initiated programmes for young people. on this basis, the greatest reduction in youth unemployment has been in hungary over the past two years. as a reminder, in my country, the unemployment rate for the 15-24 generation was only 11% in 2002, but by 2010 it had risen to almost two and a half times (27%) today, it's about 20 percent, which is better than the french, belgian or swedish data. the increased amount of pre-financing and the procedural changes may also be beneficial for hungary, which is why i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ in the fight against youth unemployment, and in particular for the member states most in need, the european parliament today amended the european social fund (esf) regulation to provide more rapid assistance to over 7 million unemployed young europeans through the european youth initiative (eyi). the previous rules across europe were less suited to launching more flexible and effective measures, so my country, hungary, also independently initiated programmes for young people. on this basis, the greatest reduction in youth unemployment has been in hungary over the past two years. as a reminder, in my country, the unemployment rate for the 15-24 generation was only 11% in 2002, but by 2010 it had risen to almost two and a half times (27%) today, it's about 20 percent, which is better than the french, belgian or swedish data. the increased amount of pre-financing and the procedural changes may also be more beneficial for hungary, which is why i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ in the fight against youth unemployment, and in particular for the member states most in need, the european parliament today amended the european social fund (esf) regulation to provide more rapid assistance to over 7 million unemployed young europeans through the european youth initiative (eyi). the previous rules across europe were less suited to launching more flexible and effective measures, so my country, hungary, also independently initiated programmes for young people. on this basis, the greatest reduction in youth unemployment has been in hungary over the past two years. as a reminder, in my country, the unemployment rate for the 15-24 generation was only 11% in 2002, but by 2010 it had risen to almost two and a half times (27%) today, it's about 20 percent, which is better than the french, belgian or swedish data. the increased amount of pre-financing and the procedural changes may also be more beneficial for hungary, which is why i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ they are essentially trying to remedy current socioeconomic problems by firefighting-type substitution actions, rather than looking at their roots. this instrument can also be a temporary solution for regions with unemployment rates above 25% for those aged 15 to 25. young people are the future, we must do everything we can to improve their situation, which is why i supported this report, even though i know there is a much better plan of action.
in writing. ‒ the youth guarantee is an initiative to tackle youth unemployment, one of europe's most pressing problems, through active employment policy instruments. the fact that the amount of pre-financing for operational programmes launched under this framework has proved to be low is to be welcomed, as it indicates that more of these eligible programmes have been launched than had been planned. i think it's very important to support them.
in writing. ‒ in my view, the youth employment initiative, launched by commissioner andor lászló during the previous cycle, is critical to reducing the proportion of young people who are neither in education nor in employment. giving back to europe's lost youth is not only important for social cohesion, but also a key element in building the long-term prospects for economic growth. increasing the pre-financing rate could help to launch the programme in the member states more quickly and with greater intensity.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the adoption of the report and, as i have said many times in this house, i believe that a complex approach is required. it is a good objective to adapt education systems to the needs of the labour market. however, we cannot ignore the fact that the hungarian government's education policy is based on cuts that exclude children from poorer, typically rural, families from higher education. this also reinforces the fact that these young people are much less likely to be absorbed by businesses. meanwhile, vocational education has been narrowed to the smallest possible amount of general education and basic skills, leaving many poorly educated children out of the system, facing guaranteed unemployment or just enough public work to sustain extreme poverty. and it should be underlined here that job creation should mean the creation of quality jobs and not public works in hungary, which means the cosmetization of statistics. however, my vote in favour must also be accompanied by the fact that, unfortunately, the funds allocated to the expansion of youth employment are not always used properly when the young worker is dismissed after the various employment benefits have expired. it is also worth considering how we can strengthen the commitment to continuing employment across europe through eu-funded programmes.
in writing. ‒ tackling youth unemployment is our priority. we need to create sustainable jobs. there are still 4.85 million young people under 25 looking for work in the eu member states. i was in favor of increasing the amount of money that goes to job creation. the reallocation of eur 1 billion and the increase in the commission's own contribution from 1% to 30% will allow the practical aspects to be taken into account and young unemployed people to find work as soon as possible.
in writing. ‒ in line with the european people's party line, i voted in favour of the adoption of the draft legislation repealing council regulation (eec) no 3030/93 on common rules for imports of certain textile products from third countries. i am opposed to the so-called omnibus approach in this respect. most of the delegations are not only technical issues, many of them also have a significant political dimension. therefore, the legislation to be amended and the powers contained therein should be examined and decided on a case-by-case basis. because of the political implications, this cannot be ignored.
in writing. ‒ my country has a light industry, and within that the textile industry has provided tens of thousands of jobs and significant export revenues. today, that industry has essentially disappeared. therefore, the proposal does not concern us at present, as this regulation lays down the control measures applicable at union level to products originating in certain third countries and may subject imports of textiles to union surveillance, quantitative limits or other appropriate measures. i voted for it because, in the future, with the proper governmental commitment, we can boost our high-quality textile industry and create many rural jobs.
in writing. ‒ the commission proposal aims at a uniform structure and recasting of council regulation (ec) no 517/94 on the subject of the title. the third countries concerned are currently belarus and north korea. the amendments are mainly technical in nature and the international trade committee proposes some clarifications.
in writing. ‒ the codification reports noted by andrzej duda help to structure european union legislation in a uniform way. as a result, the union acts to be consolidated are repealed and replaced by a single legislative act by a single legislative decision, provided that the changes do not involve substantial amendments. this procedure, based on the interinstitutional agreement between the european parliament, the european commission and the european council on better law-making, facilitates the coordination of legislative processes and contributes to making them more transparent for union citizens. i voted in favour of these reports because, as a member, i consider it essential to improve the quality of legislation and to simplify it.
in writing. ‒ the codification report on the safeguard measures provided for in the agreement between the eec and norway contributes to the harmonisation of european union legislation. as a result, the union acts to be consolidated are repealed and replaced by a single legislative act by a single legislative decision, provided that the changes do not involve substantial amendments. this procedure, based on the interinstitutional agreement between the european parliament, the european commission and the european council on better law-making, facilitates the coordination of legislative processes and contributes to making them more transparent for union citizens. i voted in favour of these reports because i believe it is important to improve the quality of legislation and to simplify it.
in writing. ‒ the codification reports noted by andrzej duda help to structure european union legislation in a uniform way. as a result, the union acts to be consolidated are repealed and replaced by a single legislative act by a single legislative decision, provided that the changes do not involve substantial amendments. this procedure, based on the interinstitutional agreement between the european parliament, the european commission and the european council on better law-making, facilitates the coordination of legislative processes and contributes to making them more transparent for union citizens. i voted in favour of these reports because i consider it essential to improve the quality of legislation and to simplify it.
in writing. ‒ the commission's draft regulation is merely a codification: it is a consolidation of existing provisions in force without any substantial change.
in writing. ‒ the codification reports noted by andrzej duda help to structure european union legislation in a uniform way. as a result, the union acts to be consolidated are repealed and replaced by a single legislative act by a single legislative decision, provided that the changes do not involve substantial amendments. this procedure, based on the interinstitutional agreement between the european parliament, the european commission and the european council on better law-making, facilitates the coordination of legislative processes and contributes to making them more transparent for union citizens. i voted in favour of these reports because, as a member of the juri committee, i consider it essential to improve the quality of legislation and to simplify it.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on safeguard measures provided for in the agreement between the european economic community and the kingdom of norway (codified text). as an alternate member of the delegation to the eu/iceland joint parliamentary committee and the eea joint parliamentary committee responsible for relations with switzerland and norway, i consider it particularly important to draw attention to the fact that the amendments will make cooperation more effective. one of the main elements of this is the bilateral safeguard regime, the implementation of which requires the adoption of safeguard measures under uniform conditions. i think it is important to note that the european parliament, through its work in the consultation procedure, is making a tangible contribution to making the legislation more effective in a way that is understandable to the electorate.
in writing. ‒ i supported the submission, including the commission's proposal, as amended in line with the recommendations of the advisory working party of the legal services of the european parliament, the council and the commission, which includes a simple consolidation of the existing texts without substantial amendments.
in writing. ‒ the codification reports noted by andrzej duda help to structure european union legislation in a uniform way. as a result, the union acts to be consolidated are repealed and replaced by a single legislative act by a single legislative decision, provided that the changes do not involve substantial amendments. this procedure, based on the interinstitutional agreement between the european parliament, the european commission and the european council on better law-making, facilitates the coordination of legislative processes and contributes to making them more transparent for union citizens. i voted in favour of these reports because, as a member, i consider it essential to improve the quality of legislation and to simplify it.
in writing. ‒ the consolidation report on certain procedures for implementing the stabilisation and association agreement between the ec and albania contributes to the harmonisation of european union legislation. as a result, the union acts to be consolidated are repealed and replaced by a single legislative act by a single legislative decision, provided that the changes do not involve substantial amendments. this procedure, based on the interinstitutional agreement between the european parliament, the european commission and the european council on better law-making, facilitates the coordination of legislative processes and contributes to making them more transparent for union citizens. i voted in favour of these reports because i believe it is important to improve the quality of legislation and to simplify it.
in writing. ‒ the codification reports noted by andrzej duda help to structure european union legislation in a uniform way. as a result, the union acts to be consolidated are repealed and replaced by a single legislative act by a single legislative decision, provided that the changes do not involve substantial amendments. this procedure, based on the interinstitutional agreement between the european parliament, the european commission and the european council on better law-making, facilitates the coordination of legislative processes and contributes to making them more transparent for union citizens. i voted in favour of these reports because i consider it essential to improve the quality of legislation and to simplify it.
in writing. ‒ the commission's draft regulation is merely a codification: it is a consolidation of existing provisions in force without any substantial change.
in writing. ‒ the codification reports noted by andrzej duda help to structure european union legislation in a uniform way. as a result, the union acts to be consolidated are repealed and replaced by a single legislative act by a single legislative decision, provided that the changes do not involve substantial amendments. this procedure, based on the interinstitutional agreement between the european parliament, the european commission and the european council on better law-making, facilitates the coordination of legislative processes and contributes to making them more transparent for union citizens. i voted in favour of these reports because, as a member of the juri committee, i consider it essential to improve the quality of legislation and to simplify it.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the legislative resolution contained in the report, given that it is an act which does not substantially change the substance but which ensures the uniform structure of the legislation necessary for the proper functioning of the stabilisation and association agreement and the desired eu effects in relation to albania. in considering this question, i took into account the fact that stabilisation and association agreements play a key role in the european union's enlargement process, providing a structured and effective framework for preparing partner countries at different stages of the accession process. this is of major political importance today, as it provides a tangible european perspective to the governments and people of the western balkan countries concerned, despite the restraint of eu enlargement policy. i wanted to serve that purpose by voting in favour of the report. i would also like to stress that the fact that the commission has marginalized the accession process in its five-year programme, in terms of timing and content, also poses a serious challenge to albania in terms of internal policy, motivation and communication. the threat of internal political polarization is real and albanians still face important and urgent tasks in the field of the rule of law, the judiciary and the fight against corruption.
in writing. ‒ the codification reports noted by andrzej duda help to structure european union legislation in a uniform way. as a result, the union acts to be consolidated are repealed and replaced by a single legislative act by a single legislative decision, provided that the changes do not involve substantial amendments. this procedure, based on the interinstitutional agreement between the european parliament, the european commission and the european council on better law-making, facilitates the coordination of legislative processes and contributes to making them more transparent for union citizens. i voted in favour of these reports because, as a member, i consider it essential to improve the quality of legislation and to simplify it.
in writing. ‒ the consolidation report on the implementation of the stabilisation and association agreement and the interim agreement on trade and trade-related matters between the ec and bosnia and herzegovina contributes to the harmonisation of european union legislation. as a result, the union acts to be consolidated are repealed and replaced by a single legislative act by a single legislative decision, provided that the changes do not involve substantial amendments. this procedure, based on the interinstitutional agreement between the european parliament, the european commission and the european council on better law-making, facilitates the coordination of legislative processes and contributes to making them more transparent for union citizens. i voted in favour of these reports because i believe it is important to improve the quality of legislation and to simplify it.
in writing. ‒ the codification reports noted by andrzej duda help to structure european union legislation in a uniform way. as a result, the union acts to be consolidated are repealed and replaced by a single legislative act by a single legislative decision, provided that the changes do not involve substantial amendments. this procedure, based on the interinstitutional agreement between the european parliament, the european commission and the european council on better law-making, facilitates the coordination of legislative processes and contributes to making them more transparent for union citizens. i voted in favour of these reports because i consider it essential to improve the quality of legislation and to simplify it.
in writing. ‒ the commission's draft regulation is merely a codification: it is a consolidation of existing provisions in force without any substantial change.
in writing. ‒ the codification reports noted by andrzej duda help to structure european union legislation in a uniform way. as a result, the union acts to be consolidated are repealed and replaced by a single legislative act by a single legislative decision, provided that the changes do not involve substantial amendments. this procedure, based on the interinstitutional agreement between the european parliament, the european commission and the european council on better law-making, facilitates the coordination of legislative processes and contributes to making them more transparent for union citizens. i voted in favour of these reports because, as a member of the juri committee, i consider it essential to improve the quality of legislation and to simplify it.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the legislative resolution contained in the report, given that it is an act which does not substantially change the substance but which ensures the uniform structure of the legislation necessary for the proper functioning of the stabilisation and association agreement and the desired eu effects in relation to bosnia and herzegovina. in considering this question, i took into account the fact that stabilisation and association agreements play a key role in the european union's enlargement process, providing a structured and effective framework for preparing partner countries at different stages of the accession process. this is of major political importance today, as it provides a tangible european perspective to the governments and people of the western balkan countries concerned, despite the restraint of eu enlargement policy. i wanted to serve that purpose by voting in favour of the report. i would also like to stress the fact that the commission's five-year programme has put the accession process on the margins in terms of timing and content. bosnia and herzegovina is perhaps the weakest link in this respect today, where the process of european approximation has essentially come to a standstill. in addition to the complex effects of external and internal political tensions and nationalism, i myself consider the underdeveloped rule of law and corruption to be decisive.
in writing. ‒ agree with the commission proposal, as amended in line with the recommendations of the consultative working party of the legal services of the european parliament, the council and the commission, which includes a simple consolidation of the existing texts without substantial amendments; i support the submission.
in writing. ‒ the codification reports noted by andrzej duda help to structure european union legislation in a uniform way. as a result, the union acts to be consolidated are repealed and replaced by a single legislative act by a single legislative decision, provided that the changes do not involve substantial amendments. this procedure, based on the interinstitutional agreement between the european parliament, the european commission and the european council on better law-making, facilitates the coordination of legislative processes and contributes to making them more transparent for union citizens. i voted in favour of these reports because, as a member, i consider it essential to improve the quality of legislation and to simplify it.
in writing. ‒ the consolidation report on certain procedures for applying the stabilisation and association agreement between the ec and macedonia contributes to the harmonisation of european union legislation. as a result, the union acts to be consolidated are repealed and replaced by a single legislative act by a single legislative decision, provided that the changes do not involve substantial amendments. this procedure, based on the interinstitutional agreement between the european parliament, the european commission and the european council on better law-making, facilitates the coordination of legislative processes and contributes to making them more transparent for union citizens. i voted in favour of these reports because i believe it is important to improve the quality of legislation and to simplify it.
in writing. ‒ the codification reports noted by andrzej duda help to structure european union legislation in a uniform way. as a result, the union acts to be consolidated are repealed and replaced by a single legislative act by a single legislative decision, provided that the changes do not involve substantial amendments. this procedure, based on the interinstitutional agreement between the european parliament, the european commission and the european council on better law-making, facilitates the coordination of legislative processes and contributes to making them more transparent for union citizens. i voted in favour of these reports because, as a member of the juri committee, i consider it essential to improve the quality of legislation and to simplify it.
in writing. ‒ the codification reports noted by andrzej duda help to structure european union legislation in a uniform way. as a result, the union acts to be consolidated are repealed and replaced by a single legislative act by a single legislative decision, provided that the changes do not involve substantial amendments. this procedure, based on the interinstitutional agreement between the european parliament, the european commission and the european council on better law-making, facilitates the coordination of legislative processes and contributes to making them more transparent for union citizens. i voted in favour of these reports because, as a member of the juri committee, i consider it essential to improve the quality of legislation and to simplify it.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the legislative resolution contained in the report, given that it is a legislative act which does not involve a substantive change in content but which ensures the uniform structure of the legislation necessary for the proper functioning of the stabilisation and association agreement and the achievement of its desired effects from the eu's point of view in relation to the former yugoslav republic of macedonia. in considering this question, i took into account the fact that stabilisation and association agreements play a key role in the european union's enlargement process, providing a structured and effective framework for preparing partner countries at different stages of the accession process. this is of major political importance today, as it provides a tangible european perspective to the governments and people of the western balkan countries concerned, despite the restraint of eu enlargement policy. i wanted to serve that purpose by voting in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ agree with the commission's proposal, as amended in line with the recommendations of the advisory working party of the legal services of the european parliament, the council and the commission, which includes a simple, uniform structure of the existing texts without substantial amendments; i support the motion in line with the s&d group's position.
in writing. ‒ in line with the position of the fidesz-kdnp parliamentary group, i voted in favour of the consolidation reports signed by andrzej duda, as i consider it essential to improve the quality of legislation, to simplify legislation. these reports help to harmonise the eu's legislation. as a result, the union acts to be consolidated are repealed and replaced by a single legislative act by a single legislative decision, provided that the changes do not involve substantial amendments. this procedure, based on the interinstitutional agreement between the european parliament, the european commission and the european council on better law-making, facilitates the coordination of legislative processes and contributes to making them more transparent for union citizens.
in writing. ‒ the codification report on the application of articles 107 and 108 tfeu to certain types of horizontal state aid contributes to the harmonisation of the european union legislation. as a result, the union acts to be consolidated are repealed and replaced by a single legislative act by a single legislative decision, provided that the changes do not involve substantial amendments. this procedure, based on the interinstitutional agreement between the european parliament, the european commission and the european council on better law-making, facilitates the coordination of legislative processes and contributes to making them more transparent for union citizens. i voted in favour of these reports because i believe it is important to improve the quality of legislation and to simplify it.
in writing. ‒ the codification reports noted by andrzej duda help to structure european union legislation in a uniform way. as a result, the union acts to be consolidated are repealed and replaced by a single legislative act by a single legislative decision, provided that the changes do not involve substantial amendments. this procedure, based on the interinstitutional agreement between the european parliament, the european commission and the european council on better law-making, facilitates the coordination of legislative processes and contributes to making them more transparent for union citizens. i voted in favour of these reports because i consider it essential to improve the quality of legislation and to simplify it.
in writing. ‒ the commission's proposal is merely a codification: a consolidation of existing provisions in force without substantial amendments.
in writing. ‒ the state aid rules aim to define the concepts precisely, including objectives, the range of beneficiaries, the conditions and the monitoring system. in my view, transparency and continuous monitoring are particularly important in this area and i believe that the proposal serves these objectives.
in writing. ‒ the codification reports noted by andrzej duda help to structure european union legislation in a uniform way. as a result, the union acts to be consolidated are repealed and replaced by a single legislative act by a single legislative decision, provided that the changes do not involve substantial amendments. this procedure, based on the interinstitutional agreement between the european parliament, the european commission and the european council on better law-making, facilitates the coordination of legislative processes and contributes to making them more transparent for union citizens. i voted in favour of these reports because, as a member of the juri committee, i consider it essential to improve the quality of legislation and to simplify it.
in writing. ‒ in line with the position of the fidesz-kdnp parliamentary group, i voted in favour of the consolidation reports signed by andrzej duda, as i consider it essential to improve the quality of legislation, to simplify legislation. these reports help to harmonise the eu's legislation. as a result, the union acts to be consolidated are repealed and replaced by a single legislative act by a single legislative decision, provided that the changes do not involve substantial amendments. this procedure, based on the interinstitutional agreement between the european parliament, the european commission and the european council on better law-making, facilitates the coordination of legislative processes and contributes to making them more transparent for union citizens.
in writing. ‒ the consolidation report laying down detailed rules for the application of article 108 tfeu contributes to the harmonisation of the european union legislation. as a result, the union acts to be consolidated are repealed and replaced by a single legislative act by a single legislative decision, provided that the changes do not involve substantial amendments. this procedure, based on the interinstitutional agreement between the european parliament, the european commission and the european council on better law-making, facilitates the coordination of legislative processes and contributes to making them more transparent for union citizens. i voted in favour of these reports because i believe it is important to improve the quality of legislation and to simplify it.
in writing. ‒ the codification reports noted by andrzej duda help to structure european union legislation in a uniform way. as a result, the union acts to be consolidated are repealed and replaced by a single legislative act by a single legislative decision, provided that the changes do not involve substantial amendments. this procedure, based on the interinstitutional agreement between the european parliament, the european commission and the european council on better law-making, facilitates the coordination of legislative processes and contributes to making them more transparent for union citizens. i voted in favour of these reports because i consider it essential to improve the quality of legislation and to simplify it.
in writing. ‒ during eu accession, the hungarian parliament of the time voted virtually unread on the treaty of lisbon, paragraphs 107 and 108 of which, dealing with state aid, have just been voted on. if they had read it, they could not have signed it in this form with such a minimal national interest-enforcing intention, because it prevents the less developed countries from catching up by harshly restricting state aid, whereas all the now-developed central countries used state aid methods freely when their economies were still in the upswing stage. i had to reject both of them to express my disagreement with the eu's rules which put the periphery and the centre in the same category and thus virtually exclude the periphery from being included.
in writing. ‒ the commission's proposal is merely a codification: a consolidation of existing provisions in force without substantial amendments.
in writing. ‒ the codification reports noted by andrzej duda help to structure european union legislation in a uniform way. as a result, the union acts to be consolidated are repealed and replaced by a single legislative act by a single legislative decision, provided that the changes do not involve substantial amendments. this procedure, based on the interinstitutional agreement between the european parliament, the european commission and the european council on better law-making, facilitates the coordination of legislative processes and contributes to making them more transparent for union citizens. i voted in favour of these reports because, as a member of the juri committee, i consider it essential to improve the quality of legislation and to simplify it.
in writing. ‒ following the presentation by the european court of auditors of its annual report for the financial year 2013, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out a financial audit of the general budget of the european union in respect of the european commission in the context of the closure of accounts procedure for the financial year 2013. the committee's primary task is to ensure and monitor the proper and efficient implementation of the community budget. the court of auditors states that it has obtained assurances as to the reliability of the annual accounts for the financial year 2013 and as to the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions. it draws the attention of the european commission to certain weaknesses in the reliability of first-level checks carried out by member states and to the need to strengthen efficient and effective financial management. it calls on the member states to ensure greater transparency in their cooperation with the commission. the report of the people's party rapporteur ingeborg graessle was voted on by the committee at its meeting at the end of march and it was decided to grant the discharge and to close the accounts for 2013. i voted in committee and in plenary to grant the discharge.
in writing. ‒ following the presentation of the annual report of the european court of auditors for the financial year 2013, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out, in the context of the closure of accounts procedure for 2013, the financial audit of the general budget of the european union for the eighth, ninth and tenth european development funds. the report concludes that the investigations have provided sufficient assurance that the annual accounts of the eighth, ninth and tenth european development funds for the financial year 2013 are reliable and that the underlying transactions were legal and regular. in terms of payments, despite the corrective measures, there are still errors. however, the final accounts report states that the financial review was carried out in an orderly manner and that no major deficiencies were found during the investigation. the committee decided at its meeting at the end of march to grant the discharge and to close the 2013 accounts. i voted in committee and in plenary to grant the discharge.
in writing. ‒ in line with the european people's party's line, i voted in favour of granting budgetary discharge to the european development funds. it is of the utmost importance that the european commission manages these resources responsibly. this is particularly the case when the member states themselves finance the development programmes and not the eu budget. the commission should therefore take due account of the observations and suggestions of the european court of auditors. we want the eu institutions to manage the resources entrusted to them responsibly. they should set an example to the eu member states in the area of responsible budgetary management.
in writing. ‒ following the presentation of the annual report of the european court of auditors for the financial year 2013, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out a financial audit of the general budget of the european union for the european parliament in the context of the closure of accounts procedure for 2013. the committee's primary task is to ensure and monitor the proper and efficient implementation of the community budget. the court found that parliament had used the funds for the right purposes and that the institution had operated its system of supervision and control in a satisfactory manner. the court's audit did not reveal any major shortcomings, but it highlights the need to continue to improve transparency and efficiency in political and administrative activities. the final audit report concludes that the financial review was carried out in an orderly manner and that no major deficiencies were found during the investigation. in line with the position of the fidesz-kdnp parliamentary group, i supported the granting of the exemption.
in writing. ‒ following the presentation of the annual report of the european court of auditors for the financial year 2013, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out a financial audit of the general budget of the european union for the european parliament in the context of the closure of accounts procedure for 2013. the committee's primary task is to ensure and monitor the proper and efficient implementation of the community budget. the court found that parliament had used the funds for the right purposes and that the institution had operated its system of supervision and control in a satisfactory manner. the court's audit did not reveal any major shortcomings, but it highlights the need to continue to improve transparency and efficiency in political and administrative activities. the final audit report concludes that the financial review was carried out in an orderly manner and that no major deficiencies were found during the investigation. the committee decided at its meeting at the end of march to grant the discharge and to close the 2013 accounts. i voted in committee and in plenary to grant the discharge.
in writing. ‒ in line with the european people's party's line, i voted in favour of granting budgetary discharge to the european parliament. it is of the utmost importance that the european parliament manages these resources responsibly. the observations and suggestions of the european court of auditors should therefore be duly taken into account by parliament. we want the eu institutions to manage the resources entrusted to them responsibly. they should set an example to the eu member states in the area of responsible budgetary management.
in writing. ‒ following the presentation of the annual report of the european court of auditors for the financial year 2013, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out a financial audit of the general budget of the european union in respect of the council in the context of the closure of the accounts procedure for 2013. in its 2013 annual report, the court of auditors concluded that, on the basis of its audit work, the payments made by the institutions and bodies in respect of administrative and other expenditure for the financial year 2013 were, overall, free from material error. the basic reason for the refusal of the discharge was the interinstitutional dispute between the council and parliament on discharge. the council refuses to cooperate with parliament in the discharge procedure, which means that the committee on budgetary control of the european parliament cannot discharge the budget. the panel decided at its meeting at the end of march to postpone the granting of the exemption. as the people's party chairman of the report, i voted in committee and in plenary to support the postponement of the discharge.
in writing. ‒ following the presentation of the annual report of the european court of auditors for the financial year 2013, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out a financial audit of the general budget of the european union in respect of the council in the context of the closure of the accounts procedure for 2013. in its 2013 annual report, the court of auditors concluded that, on the basis of its audit work, the payments made by the institutions and bodies in respect of administrative and other expenditure for the financial year 2013 were, overall, free from material error. the basic reason for the refusal of the discharge was the interinstitutional dispute between the council and parliament on discharge. the council refuses to cooperate with parliament in the discharge procedure, which means that the committee on budgetary control of the european parliament cannot discharge the budget. the panel decided at its meeting at the end of march to postpone the granting of the exemption. in the light of the above and in line with the european people's party's line, i voted in favour of postponing the granting of the exemption.
in writing. ‒ following the presentation of the annual report of the european court of auditors for the financial year 2013, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out a financial audit of the general budget of the european union concerning the european external action service in the context of the closure of the accounts procedure for 2013. the court of auditors has stated that the annual accounts for the financial year 2013 are reliable and that the underlying transactions were legal and regular. takes note of the progress made in relation to errors and risks identified in previous years; it stresses, however, the need to introduce stricter controls on staff allowance deficiencies. the final audit report concludes that the financial review was carried out in an orderly manner and that no major deficiencies were found during the investigation. in line with the position of the fidesz-kdnp parliamentary group, i supported the granting of the exemption.
in writing. ‒ following the presentation of the annual report of the european court of auditors for the financial year 2013, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out a financial audit of the general budget of the european union concerning the european external action service in the context of the closure of the accounts procedure for 2013. the court of auditors has stated that the annual accounts for the financial year 2013 are reliable and that the underlying transactions were legal and regular. takes note of the progress made in relation to errors and risks identified in previous years; it stresses, however, the need to introduce stricter controls on staff allowance deficiencies. the final audit report concludes that the financial review was carried out in an orderly manner and that no major deficiencies were found during the investigation. the committee decided at its meeting at the end of march to grant the discharge and to close the 2013 accounts. as the people's party chairman of the report, i voted in favour of granting the discharge in the committee vote and in the plenary vote.
in writing. ‒ in line with the european people's party's line, i voted in favour of granting a budgetary discharge to the european external action service. it is of the utmost importance that the european external action service manages these resources responsibly. the european external action service should therefore take due account of any observations and suggestions made by the european court of auditors. we want the eu institutions to manage the resources entrusted to them responsibly. they should set an example to the eu member states in the area of responsible budgetary management.
in writing. ‒ following the presentation of the annual report of the european court of auditors for the financial year 2013, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out a financial audit of the general budget of the european union concerning the european court of justice in the context of the closure of the accounts procedure for 2013. the committee's primary task is to ensure and monitor the proper and efficient implementation of the community budget. it stresses that no weaknesses were identified in the audit of human resources and procurement issues. the court of auditors found that the payments for 2013 were essentially error-free. in its annual report for 2013, the court of auditors did not raise any objections to the management of the court of justice in 2013. it notes that there is a huge disparity between translation costs in the eu institutions and therefore calls for a harmonised budget for translation costs. the final audit report concludes that the financial review was carried out in an orderly manner and that no major deficiencies were found during the investigation. as a member of the hungarian people's party delegation and in line with the common position, i supported the granting of the exemption.
in writing. ‒ following the presentation of the annual report of the european court of auditors for the financial year 2013, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out a financial audit of the general budget of the european union concerning the european court of justice in the context of the closure of the accounts procedure for 2013. the committee's primary task is to ensure and monitor the proper and efficient implementation of the community budget. it stresses that no weaknesses were identified in the audit of human resources and procurement issues. the court of auditors found that the payments for 2013 were essentially error-free. in its annual report for 2013, the court of auditors did not raise any objections to the management of the court of justice in 2013. it notes that there is a huge disparity between translation costs in the eu institutions and therefore calls for a harmonised budget for translation costs. the final audit report concludes that the financial review was carried out in an orderly manner and that no major deficiencies were found during the investigation. the committee decided at its meeting at the end of march to grant the discharge and to close the 2013 accounts. as the people's party chairman of the report, i voted in favour of granting the discharge in the committee vote and in the plenary vote.
in writing. ‒ in line with the european people's party's line, i voted in favour of granting a budgetary discharge to the court of justice of the european union. it is of the utmost importance that the court of justice of the european union manages these resources responsibly. the court of justice of the european union should therefore take due account of any observations and suggestions made by the european court of auditors. we want the eu institutions to manage the resources entrusted to them responsibly. they should set an example to the eu member states in the area of responsible budgetary management.
in writing. ‒ following the presentation of the annual report of the european court of auditors for the financial year 2013, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out a financial audit of the general budget of the european union concerning the european court of auditors in the context of the closure of the accounts procedure for 2013. the committee's primary task is to ensure and monitor the proper and efficient implementation of the community budget. the report notes that the court's annual accounts are audited by an independent auditor, so that it can apply the same transparency and accountability as for audited entities. the financial statements give a true picture of the court's financial situation. the report welcomes the court's internal reform programme and recommends that the duration of each audit be reduced so as not to compromise the quality of the work. the final audit report concludes that the financial review was carried out in an orderly manner and that no major deficiencies were found during the investigation. the committee decided at its meeting at the end of march to grant the discharge and to close the 2013 accounts. as the people's party chairman of the report, i voted in favour of granting the discharge in the committee vote and in the plenary vote.
in writing. ‒ in line with the european people's party's line, i voted in favour of granting a budgetary discharge to the european court of auditors. it is of the utmost importance that the european court of auditors manages these resources responsibly. we want the eu institutions to manage the resources entrusted to them responsibly. they should set an example to the eu member states in the area of responsible budgetary management.
in writing. ‒ following the presentation of the annual report of the european court of auditors for the financial year 2013, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out a financial audit of the general budget of the european union for the economic and social committee in the context of the closure of the accounts procedure for 2013. the committee's primary task is to ensure and monitor the proper and efficient implementation of the community budget. in its annual report, the court of auditors' audit work found that payments for 2013 were free from material error and no significant errors were identified in respect of human resources and public procurement. it points out that translation costs vary widely across the eu institutions and calls on the translation task force to identify the reasons for this and propose a solution. the final audit report concludes that the financial review was carried out in an orderly manner and that no major deficiencies were found during the investigation. the committee decided at its meeting at the end of march to grant the discharge and to close the 2013 accounts. as the people's party chairman of the report, i voted in favour of granting the discharge in the committee vote and in the plenary vote.
in writing. ‒ in line with the european people's party's line, i voted in favour of granting budgetary discharge to the economic and social committee. it is of the utmost importance that the economic and social committee manages these resources responsibly. the economic and social committee should therefore take due account of any observations and suggestions made by the european court of auditors. we want the eu institutions to manage the resources entrusted to them responsibly. they should set an example to the eu member states in the area of responsible budgetary management.
in writing. ‒ following the presentation of the annual report of the european court of auditors for the financial year 2013, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out a financial audit of the general budget of the european union concerning the committee of the regions in the context of the closure of the 2013 accounts procedure. the committee's primary task is to ensure and monitor the proper and efficient implementation of the community budget. the court of auditors has found that the annual accounts of the committee of the regions for the financial year 2013 are reliable and that the underlying transactions were legal and regular. no significant deficiencies were identified during the investigation and no material errors were detected in the payments. the final audit report concludes that the financial review was carried out in an orderly manner and that no major deficiencies were found during the investigation. the committee decided at its meeting at the end of march to grant the discharge and to close the 2013 accounts. as the people's party chairman of the report, i voted in favour of granting the discharge in the committee vote and in the plenary vote.
in writing. ‒ in line with the european people's party's line, i voted in favour of granting a budgetary discharge to the committee of the regions. it is of the utmost importance that the committee of the regions manages these resources responsibly. the committee of the regions should therefore take due account of any observations and suggestions made by the european court of auditors. we want the eu institutions to manage the resources entrusted to them responsibly. they should set an example to the eu member states in the area of responsible budgetary management.
in writing. ‒ following the presentation of the annual report of the european court of auditors for the financial year 2013, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out a financial audit of the general budget of the european union concerning the european ombudsman in the context of the closure of the accounts procedure for 2013. the committee's primary task is to ensure and monitor the proper and efficient implementation of the community budget. in its annual report, the court of auditors' audit work found that payments for 2013 were free from material error and no significant errors were identified in respect of human resources and public procurement. takes note of the continuous improvements in financial planning and control and in the monitoring of public procurement procedures; the final audit report concludes that the financial review was carried out in an orderly manner and that no major deficiencies were found during the investigation. the committee decided at its meeting at the end of march to grant the discharge and to close the 2013 accounts. as the people's party chairman of the report, i voted in favour of granting the discharge in the committee vote and in the plenary vote.
in writing. ‒ in line with the european people's party's line, i voted in favour of granting a budgetary discharge to the european ombudsman. it is of the utmost importance that the european ombudsman manages these resources responsibly. the european ombudsman should therefore take due account of any observations and suggestions made by the european court of auditors. we want the eu institutions to manage the resources entrusted to them responsibly. they should set an example to the eu member states in the area of responsible budgetary management.
in writing. ‒ following the presentation of the annual report of the european court of auditors for the financial year 2013, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out a financial audit of the general budget of the european union concerning the european ombudsman in the context of the closure of the accounts procedure for 2013. the committee's primary task is to ensure and monitor the proper and efficient implementation of the community budget. in its annual report, the court of auditors' audit work found that payments for 2013 were free from material error and no significant errors were identified in respect of human resources and public procurement. takes note of the continuous improvements in financial planning and control and in the monitoring of public procurement procedures; the final audit report concludes that the financial review was carried out in an orderly manner and that no major deficiencies were found during the investigation. the committee decided at its meeting at the end of march to grant the discharge and to close the 2013 accounts. as the people's party chairman of the report, i voted in favour of granting the discharge in the committee vote and in the plenary vote.
in writing. ‒ following the presentation by the european court of auditors of its annual report for the financial year 2013, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out a financial audit of the general budget of the european union concerning the european data protection supervisor during the closure of the 2013 financial year. the committee's primary task is to ensure and monitor the proper and efficient implementation of the community budget. the court of auditors has found that the payments made in respect of the entitlements to the administrative and other expenditure of the european data protection supervisor for the financial year 2013 were, on the whole, free from material error and that the supervisory and control mechanisms in place for administrative and other expenditure had effectively ensured the correctness of the payments and functioned efficiently. the final audit report concludes that the financial review was carried out in an orderly manner and that no major deficiencies were found during the investigation. the report did not identify any serious deficiencies in human resources or public procurement. the committee decided at its meeting at the end of march to grant the discharge and to close the 2013 accounts. as the people's party rapporteur, i supported the discharge in the committee vote and in the plenary vote.
in writing. ‒ in line with the european people's party's line, i voted in favour of granting a budgetary discharge to the european data protection supervisor. it is of the utmost importance that the edps manages these resources responsibly. the european data protection supervisor should therefore take due account of any observations and suggestions made by the european court of auditors. we want the eu institutions to manage the resources entrusted to them responsibly. they should set an example to the eu member states in the area of responsible budgetary management.
in writing. ‒ following the presentation by the european court of auditors of its annual report for the financial year 2013, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out a comprehensive financial audit of the general budget of the european union concerning the performance, financial management and control of the agencies in the context of the closure of the accounts procedure for 2013. in its report, the court of auditors stated that it had obtained assurance as to the reliability of the annual accounts of the agencies for the financial year 2013 and that the underlying transactions were legal and regular. it is necessary to reduce errors in the accounting policies of each agency. the court expressed concern about the geographical location of the agencies, many of which are far from the central european institutions, which entails additional travel costs and makes it difficult to implement the centralised budget. it considers that the recruitment procedure system needs to be improved, the reporting system made more efficient and the geographical balance of staff needs to be improved. the final audit report concludes that the financial review was carried out in an orderly manner and that no major deficiencies were found during the investigation. the committee decided at its meeting at the end of march to grant the discharge and to close the 2013 accounts. i voted in committee and in plenary to grant the discharge.
in writing. ‒ the european court of auditors has prepared its annual report for the financial year 2013, which was presented to the european parliament's plenary and then to the committee on budgetary control. following the presentation of the report, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out a financial audit of the general budget of the european union concerning the implementation of the budgets of the agencies and offices in the context of the closure of accounts procedure for the financial year 2013. the committee's primary task is to ensure and monitor the proper and efficient implementation of the community budget. the final report on the annual accounts of the european union agencies and offices for the financial year 2012 concludes that the financial controls were carried out in an orderly manner and that the audit found no deficiencies. the problems highlighted in the report and to be addressed by the agencies include the need to increase transparency in public procurement procedures, to make the conflict of interest procedure more effective and to further strengthen internal control systems. at its march meeting, the cont committee decided to accept the report and to close the accounts of that authority for 2013. i supported the adoption of the report in the committee vote and in the plenary vote on 29 april.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report, which examined and assessed the performance of the eu agencies in a detailed and balanced way. these agencies play an important role in supporting the policies of the union and it is therefore essential that they communicate their results to european citizens in a more effective way. in addition to detailing the positive trends and encouraging them to continue, i think it is right that the report also highlights areas where the agencies need to improve their performance. such as visibility and democratic accountability of agencies, or the consistency and comparability of documents.
in writing. ‒ following the presentation of the annual report of the european court of auditors for the financial year 2013, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out a financial audit of the general budget of the european union concerning the agency for the cooperation of energy regulators in the context of the closure of the accounts procedure for 2013. the committee's primary task is to ensure and monitor the proper and efficient implementation of the community budget. the court of auditors has found that the agency for the cooperation of energy regulators has submitted reliable annual accounts for the financial year 2013 and that the underlying transactions were legal and regular. acknowledges that the agency has implemented a number of measures that have significantly improved and strengthened its budget planning and implementation processes; the report makes recommendations on the internal control system to strengthen and improve its structure, to strengthen the supervision of public procurement activities, and to extend the scope of operational and budgetary controls. the final audit report concludes that the financial review was carried out in an orderly manner and that no major deficiencies were found during the investigation. the committee decided at its meeting at the end of march to grant the discharge and to close the 2013 accounts. i voted in committee and in plenary to grant the discharge.
in writing. ‒ in line with the european people's party's line, i voted in favour of granting a budgetary discharge to the european agency for the cooperation of energy regulators. it is of the utmost importance that the agency for the cooperation of energy regulators manages these resources responsibly. therefore, the agency for the cooperation of energy regulators should take due account of any observations and suggestions made by the european court of auditors. we want the eu institutions to manage the resources entrusted to them responsibly. they should set an example to the eu member states in the area of responsible budgetary management.
in writing. ‒ the european court of auditors has prepared its annual report for the financial year 2013, which was presented to the european parliament's plenary and then to the committee on budgetary control. following the presentation of the report, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out a financial audit of the general budget of the european union concerning the implementation of the budgets of the agencies and offices in the context of the closure of accounts procedure for the financial year 2013. the committee's primary task is to ensure and monitor the proper and efficient implementation of the community budget. the final report on the annual accounts of the european union agencies and offices for the financial year 2012 concludes that the financial controls were carried out in an orderly manner and that the audit found no deficiencies. the problems highlighted in the report and to be addressed by the agencies include the need to increase transparency in public procurement procedures, to make the conflict of interest procedure more effective and to further strengthen internal control systems. at its march meeting, the cont committee decided to accept the report and to close the accounts of that authority for 2013. i supported the adoption of the report in the committee vote and in the plenary vote on 29 april.
in writing. ‒ following the presentation of the annual report of the european court of auditors for the financial year 2013, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out a financial audit of the general budget of the european union concerning the european electronic communications regulators board in the context of the closure of the accounts procedure for 2013. the court of auditors has conducted its examinations with a view to establishing whether the annual accounts of the european electronic communications regulators board for the financial year 2013 are reliable and that the underlying transactions are legal and regular. the final audit report concludes that the financial review was carried out in an orderly manner and that no major deficiencies were found during the investigation. the committee decided at its meeting at the end of march to grant the discharge and to close the 2013 accounts. the committee decided at its meeting at the end of march to grant the discharge and to close the 2013 accounts. i voted in committee and in plenary to grant the discharge.
in writing. ‒ in line with the european people's party's line, i voted in favour of granting a budgetary discharge to the office of the body of european regulators for electronic communications. it is of the utmost importance that the office of the body of european regulators for electronic communications manages those resources responsibly. therefore, any observations and suggestions made by the european court of auditors should be duly taken into account by the office of the body of european regulators for electronic communications. we want the eu institutions to manage the resources entrusted to them responsibly. they should set an example to the eu member states in the area of responsible budgetary management.
in writing. ‒ the european court of auditors has prepared its annual report for the financial year 2013, which was presented to the european parliament's plenary and then to the committee on budgetary control. following the presentation of the report, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out a financial audit of the general budget of the european union concerning the implementation of the budgets of the agencies and offices in the context of the closure of accounts procedure for the financial year 2013. the committee's primary task is to ensure and monitor the proper and efficient implementation of the community budget. the final report on the annual accounts of the european union agencies and offices for the financial year 2012 concludes that the financial controls were carried out in an orderly manner and that the audit found no deficiencies. the problems highlighted in the report and to be addressed by the agencies include the need to increase transparency in public procurement procedures, to make the conflict of interest procedure more effective and to further strengthen internal control systems. at its march meeting, the cont committee decided to accept the report and to close the accounts of that authority for 2013. i supported the adoption of the report in the committee vote and in the plenary vote on 29 april.
in writing. ‒ following the presentation of the annual report of the european court of auditors for the financial year 2013, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out, in the context of the closure of the accounts procedure for 2013, a financial audit of the general budget of the european union concerning the translation centre for the bodies of the european union. the committee's primary task is to ensure and monitor the proper and efficient implementation of the community budget. the court of auditors has found that the annual accounts of the translation centre for the bodies of the european union for the financial year 2013 have been provided in a reliable manner and that the underlying transactions have been legal and regular. the final audit report concludes that the financial review was carried out in an orderly manner and that no major deficiencies were identified during the investigation. the committee decided at its meeting at the end of march to grant the discharge and to close the 2013 accounts. i voted in committee and in plenary to grant the discharge.
in writing. ‒ in line with the european people's party's line, i voted in favour of granting a budgetary discharge to the translation centre for the bodies of the european union. it is of the utmost importance that the translation centre for the bodies of the european union manages these resources responsibly. therefore, any observations and suggestions made by the european court of auditors should be duly taken into account by the translation centre for the bodies of the european union. we want the eu institutions to manage the resources entrusted to them responsibly. they should set an example to the eu member states in the area of responsible budgetary management.
in writing. ‒ the european court of auditors has prepared its annual report for the financial year 2013, which was presented to the european parliament's plenary and then to the committee on budgetary control. following the presentation of the report, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out a financial audit of the general budget of the european union concerning the implementation of the budgets of the agencies and offices in the context of the closure of accounts procedure for the financial year 2013. the committee's primary task is to ensure and monitor the proper and efficient implementation of the community budget. the final report on the annual accounts of the european union agencies and offices for the financial year 2012 concludes that the financial controls were carried out in an orderly manner and that the audit found no deficiencies. the problems highlighted in the report and to be addressed by the agencies include the need to increase transparency in public procurement procedures, to make the conflict of interest procedure more effective and to further strengthen internal control systems. at its march meeting, the cont committee decided to accept the report and to close the accounts of that authority for 2013. i supported the adoption of the report in the committee vote and in the plenary vote on 29 april.
in writing. ‒ following the presentation of the annual report of the european court of auditors for the financial year 2013, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out, in the context of the closure of the accounts procedure for 2013, a financial audit of the general budget of the european union concerning the european training and development centre. the committee's primary task is to ensure and monitor the proper and efficient implementation of the community budget. the court of auditors concluded that it had obtained reasonable assurances that the annual accounts of the european centre for the development of vocational training for the financial year 2013 were reliable and that the underlying transactions were legal and regular. the final audit report concludes that the financial review was carried out in an orderly manner and that no major deficiencies were found during the investigation. the committee decided at its meeting at the end of march to grant the discharge and to close the accounts for 2013. i voted in committee and in plenary to grant the discharge.
in writing. ‒ in line with the european people's party's line, i voted in favour of granting a budgetary discharge to the european centre for the development of vocational training. it is of the utmost importance that the european centre for the development of vocational training manages these resources responsibly. therefore, any observations and suggestions made by the european court of auditors should be duly taken into account by the european training centre. we want the eu institutions to manage the resources entrusted to them responsibly. they should set an example to the eu member states in the area of responsible budgetary management.
in writing. ‒ the european court of auditors has prepared its annual report for the financial year 2013, which was presented to the european parliament's plenary and then to the committee on budgetary control. following the presentation of the report, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out a financial audit of the general budget of the european union concerning the implementation of the budgets of the agencies and offices in the context of the closure of accounts procedure for the financial year 2013. the committee's primary task is to ensure and monitor the proper and efficient implementation of the community budget. the final report on the annual accounts of the european union agencies and offices for the financial year 2012 concludes that the financial controls were carried out in an orderly manner and that the audit found no deficiencies. the problems highlighted in the report and to be addressed by the agencies include the need to increase transparency in public procurement procedures, to make the conflict of interest procedure more effective and to further strengthen internal control systems. at its march meeting, the cont committee decided to accept the report and to close the accounts of that authority for 2013. i supported the adoption of the report in the committee vote and in the plenary vote on 29 april.
in writing. ‒ following the presentation of the annual report of the european court of auditors for the financial year 2013, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out a financial audit of the general budget of the european union concerning the european police college in the context of the closure of the accounts procedure for 2013. the committee's primary task is to ensure and monitor the proper and efficient implementation of the community budget. the european parliament has approved the closure of the accounts of the european police college for the financial year 2013. the report emphasises that declarations of interest of staff, management and members of the working sports are not publicly available. it is important that the academy address these shortcomings as soon as possible and that similar failures do not occur in the future. the final audit report concludes that the financial review was carried out in an orderly manner and that no major deficiencies were found during the investigation. the committee decided at its meeting at the end of march to grant the discharge and to close the 2013 accounts. i voted in committee and in plenary to grant the discharge.
in writing. ‒ in line with the european people's party's line, i voted in favour of granting a budgetary discharge to the european police college. it is of the utmost importance that the european police college manages these resources responsibly. the european police college should therefore take due account of any observations and suggestions made by the european court of auditors. we want the eu institutions to manage the resources entrusted to them responsibly. they should set an example to the eu member states in the area of responsible budgetary management.
in writing. ‒ the european court of auditors has prepared its annual report for the financial year 2013, which was presented to the european parliament's plenary and then to the committee on budgetary control. following the presentation of the report, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out a financial audit of the general budget of the european union concerning the implementation of the budgets of the agencies and offices in the context of the closure of accounts procedure for the financial year 2013. the committee's primary task is to ensure and monitor the proper and efficient implementation of the community budget. the final report on the annual accounts of the european union agencies and offices for the financial year 2012 concludes that the financial controls were carried out in an orderly manner and that the audit found no deficiencies. the problems highlighted in the report and to be addressed by the agencies include the need to increase transparency in public procurement procedures, to make the conflict of interest procedure more effective and to further strengthen internal control systems. at its march meeting, the cont committee decided to accept the report and to close the accounts of that authority for 2013. i supported the adoption of the report in the committee vote and in the plenary vote on 29 april.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the implementation of the budget of the european police college (cepol) for the financial year 2013. the rapporteur correctly highlighted areas where cepol needs further development, such as commitments and transfers. it also acknowledged its efforts to improve the structure of the budget. the report welcomes the €200,000 annual savings that the move of the academy from bramshill to its new headquarters in budapest has brought. i also share the rapporteur's concern about the uncertain future of the academy, which could adversely affect its activities.
in writing. ‒ following the presentation of the annual report of the european court of auditors for the financial year 2013, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out a financial audit of the general budget of the european union concerning the european aviation safety agency in the context of the closure of the accounts procedure for the financial year 2013. the committee's primary task is to ensure and monitor the proper and efficient implementation of the community budget. the court of auditors concluded that the annual accounts of the european aviation safety agency for the financial year 2013 were reliable and that the underlying transactions were legal and regular. the final audit report concludes that the financial review was carried out in an orderly manner and that no major deficiencies were found during the investigation. the committee decided at its meeting at the end of march to grant the discharge and to close the 2013 accounts. i voted in committee and in plenary to grant the discharge.
in writing. ‒ in line with the european people's party's line, i voted in favour of granting a budgetary discharge to the european aviation safety agency. it is of the utmost importance that the european aviation safety agency manages those resources responsibly. therefore, the european aviation safety agency should take due account of any observations and suggestions made by the european court of auditors. we want the eu institutions to manage the resources entrusted to them responsibly. they should set an example to the eu member states in the area of responsible budgetary management.
in writing. ‒ the european court of auditors has prepared its annual report for the financial year 2013, which was presented to the european parliament's plenary and then to the committee on budgetary control. following the presentation of the report, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out a financial audit of the general budget of the european union concerning the implementation of the budgets of the agencies and offices in the context of the closure of accounts procedure for the financial year 2013. the committee's primary task is to ensure and monitor the proper and efficient implementation of the community budget. the final report on the annual accounts of the european union agencies and offices for the financial year 2012 concludes that the financial controls were carried out in an orderly manner and that the audit found no deficiencies. the problems highlighted in the report and to be addressed by the agencies include the need to increase transparency in public procurement procedures, to make the conflict of interest procedure more effective and to further strengthen internal control systems. at its march meeting, the cont committee decided to accept the report and to close the accounts of that authority for 2013. i supported the adoption of the report in the committee vote and in the plenary vote on 29 april.
in writing. ‒ the opinion of the transport committee has been fully incorporated in the discharge report. based on the data contained in the discharge, the report shall highlight the effective functioning of the agency. the agency should be provided with the financial, material and human resources necessary to enable it to carry out its tasks successfully and to ensure the maximum aviation safety across europe, in which its role is indispensable. the conclusion of a headquarters agreement is essential for effective operation, which, despite the agency's efforts, could not be concluded even 14 years after its establishment. these negotiations need to be expedited. i voted for the 2013 discharge.
in writing. ‒ following the presentation of the annual report of the european court of auditors for the financial year 2013, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out a financial audit of the general budget of the european union concerning the european asylum support office in the context of the closure of the accounts procedure for 2013. the committee's primary task is to ensure and monitor the proper and efficient implementation of the community budget. the court of auditors has found that the annual accounts for the financial year 2013 have been presented in a reliable manner and that the underlying transactions were legal and regular. it also considers that the reliability of accounts, internal control and budgetary management need to be improved. the final audit report concludes that the financial review was carried out in an orderly manner and that no major deficiencies were identified during the investigation. the committee decided at its meeting at the end of march to grant the discharge and to close the 2013 accounts. i voted in committee and in plenary to grant the discharge.
in writing. ‒ in line with the european people's party's line, i voted in favour of granting a budgetary discharge to the european asylum support office. it is of the utmost importance that the european asylum support office manages these resources responsibly. the european asylum support office should therefore take due account of any observations and suggestions made by the european court of auditors. we want the eu institutions to manage the resources entrusted to them responsibly. they should set an example to the eu member states in the area of responsible budgetary management.
in writing. ‒ the european court of auditors has prepared its annual report for the financial year 2013, which was presented to the european parliament's plenary and then to the committee on budgetary control. following the presentation of the report, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out a financial audit of the general budget of the european union concerning the implementation of the budgets of the agencies and offices in the context of the closure of accounts procedure for the financial year 2013. the committee's primary task is to ensure and monitor the proper and efficient implementation of the community budget. the final report on the annual accounts of the european union agencies and offices for the financial year 2012 concludes that the financial controls were carried out in an orderly manner and that the audit found no deficiencies. the problems highlighted in the report and to be addressed by the agencies include the need to increase transparency in public procurement procedures, to make the conflict of interest procedure more effective and to further strengthen internal control systems. at its march meeting, the cont committee decided to accept the report and to close the accounts of that authority for 2013. i supported the adoption of the report in the committee vote and in the plenary vote on 29 april.
in writing. ‒ the activities of the european asylum support office are critical to the implementation of the common european asylum policy. this agency provides a very strong support to member states in the conduct of professional asylum procedures that respect the rights of asylum seekers. the exemption reflects the agency's financial data. at the same time, i would point out that the growing and changing tasks require careful planning of the easo budget for the coming year and, on this basis, an expected increase in the budget.
in writing. ‒ following the presentation of the annual report of the european court of auditors for the financial year 2013, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out a financial audit of the general budget of the european union concerning the european banking authority in the context of the closure of the accounts procedure for 2013. the court of auditors concluded that the annual accounts of the european banking authority for the financial year 2013 are reliable and that the underlying transactions were legal and regular. it stresses that the authority should seek to strengthen consumer protection and coordinate its actions with other european supervisory authorities. it urges the commission to propose a more integrated, efficient and reliable banking system by 2017. the final audit report concludes that the financial review was carried out in an orderly manner and that no major deficiencies were found during the investigation. the committee decided at its meeting at the end of march to grant the discharge and to close the 2013 accounts. i voted in committee and in plenary to grant the discharge.
in writing. ‒ in line with the european people's party's line, i voted in favour of granting a budgetary discharge to the european banking authority. it is of the utmost importance that the european banking authority manages those resources responsibly. therefore, the european banking authority should take due account of any observations and suggestions made by the european court of auditors. we want the eu institutions to manage the resources entrusted to them responsibly. they should set an example to the eu member states in the area of responsible budgetary management.
in writing. ‒ the european court of auditors has prepared its annual report for the financial year 2013, which was presented to the european parliament's plenary and then to the committee on budgetary control. following the presentation of the report, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out a financial audit of the general budget of the european union concerning the implementation of the budgets of the agencies and offices in the context of the closure of accounts procedure for the financial year 2013. the committee's primary task is to ensure and monitor the proper and efficient implementation of the community budget. the final report on the annual accounts of the european union agencies and offices for the financial year 2012 concludes that the financial controls were carried out in an orderly manner and that the audit found no deficiencies. the problems highlighted in the report and to be addressed by the agencies include the need to increase transparency in public procurement procedures, to make the conflict of interest procedure more effective and to further strengthen internal control systems. at its march meeting, the cont committee decided to accept the report and to close the accounts of that authority for 2013. i supported the adoption of the report in the committee vote and in the plenary vote on 29 april.
in writing. ‒ following the presentation by the european court of auditors of its annual report for the financial year 2013, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out a financial audit of the general budget of the european union in respect of the european centre for disease prevention and control during the closure procedure for the financial year 2013. the european parliament has approved the closure of the accounts of the european centre for disease prevention and control for the financial year 2013. the court also concluded that it had obtained reasonable assurances in its financial audits that the annual accounts of the european centre for disease prevention and control for the financial year 2013 were reliable and that the underlying transactions were legal and regular. the centre should find a solution to improve the management of public procurement procedures. the final audit report concludes that the financial review was carried out in an orderly manner and that no major deficiencies were found during the investigation. the committee decided at its meeting at the end of march to grant the discharge and to close the 2013 accounts. i voted in committee and in plenary to grant the discharge.
in writing. ‒ in line with the european people's party's line, i voted in favour of granting a budgetary discharge to the european centre for disease prevention and control. it is of the utmost importance that the european centre for disease prevention and control manages those resources responsibly. therefore, any observations and suggestions made by the european court of auditors should be duly taken into account by the european centre for disease prevention and control. we want the eu institutions to manage the resources entrusted to them responsibly. they should set an example to the eu member states in the area of responsible budgetary management.
in writing. ‒ the european court of auditors has prepared its annual report for the financial year 2013, which was presented to the european parliament's plenary and then to the committee on budgetary control. following the presentation of the report, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out a financial audit of the general budget of the european union concerning the implementation of the budgets of the agencies and offices in the context of the closure of accounts procedure for the financial year 2013. the committee's primary task is to ensure and monitor the proper and efficient implementation of the community budget. the final report on the annual accounts of the european union agencies and offices for the financial year 2012 concludes that the financial controls were carried out in an orderly manner and that the audit found no deficiencies. the problems highlighted in the report and to be addressed by the agencies include the need to increase transparency in public procurement procedures, to make the conflict of interest procedure more effective and to further strengthen internal control systems. at its march meeting, the cont committee decided to accept the report and to close the accounts of that authority for 2013. i supported the adoption of the report in the committee vote and in the plenary vote on 29 april.
in writing. ‒ following the presentation of the annual report of the european court of auditors for the financial year 2013, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out, in the context of the closure of accounts procedure for 2013, a financial audit of the general budget of the european union concerning the european chemicals agency. the committee's primary task is to ensure and monitor the proper and efficient implementation of the community budget. the court of auditors has found that the annual accounts of the european chemicals agency for the financial year 2013 are reliable and that the underlying transactions were legal and regular. the final audit report concludes that the financial review was carried out in an orderly manner and that no major deficiencies were found during the investigation. the committee decided at its meeting at the end of march to grant the discharge and to close the 2013 accounts. i voted in committee and in plenary to grant the discharge.
in writing. ‒ in line with the european people's party's line, i voted in favour of granting a budgetary discharge to the european chemicals agency. it is of the utmost importance that the european chemicals agency manages these resources responsibly. therefore, the european chemicals agency should take due account of any observations and suggestions made by the european court of auditors. we want the eu institutions to manage the resources entrusted to them responsibly. they should set an example to the eu member states in the area of responsible budgetary management.
in writing. ‒ the european court of auditors has prepared its annual report for the financial year 2013, which was presented to the european parliament's plenary and then to the committee on budgetary control. following the presentation of the report, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out a financial audit of the general budget of the european union concerning the implementation of the budgets of the agencies and offices in the context of the closure of accounts procedure for the financial year 2013. the committee's primary task is to ensure and monitor the proper and efficient implementation of the community budget. the final report on the annual accounts of the european union agencies and offices for the financial year 2012 concludes that the financial controls were carried out in an orderly manner and that the audit found no deficiencies. the problems highlighted in the report and to be addressed by the agencies include the need to increase transparency in public procurement procedures, to make the conflict of interest procedure more effective and to further strengthen internal control systems. at its march meeting, the cont committee decided to accept the report and to close the accounts of that authority for 2013. i supported the adoption of the report in the committee vote and in the plenary vote on 29 april.
in writing. ‒ following the presentation of the annual report of the european court of auditors for the financial year 2013, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out a financial audit of the general budget of the european union concerning the european environment agency in the context of the closure of the accounts procedure for 2013. the committee's primary task is to ensure and monitor the proper and efficient implementation of the community budget. the report welcomes the agency's long-term staff policy and its commitment to continuously review and improve the efficiency of its staff and organisational structure. the final audit report concludes that the financial review was carried out in an orderly manner and that no major deficiencies were found during the investigation. the committee decided at its meeting at the end of march to grant the discharge and to close the 2013 accounts. i voted in committee and in plenary to grant the discharge.
in writing. ‒ in line with the european people's party's line, i voted in favour of granting a budgetary discharge to the european environment agency. it is of the utmost importance that the european environment agency manages these resources responsibly. the european environment agency should therefore take due account of any observations and suggestions made by the european court of auditors. we want the eu institutions to manage the resources entrusted to them responsibly. they should set an example to the eu member states in the area of responsible budgetary management.
in writing. ‒ the european court of auditors has prepared its annual report for the financial year 2013, which was presented to the european parliament's plenary and then to the committee on budgetary control. following the presentation of the report, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out a financial audit of the general budget of the european union concerning the implementation of the budgets of the agencies and offices in the context of the closure of accounts procedure for the financial year 2013. the committee's primary task is to ensure and monitor the proper and efficient implementation of the community budget. the final report on the annual accounts of the european union agencies and offices for the financial year 2012 concludes that the financial controls were carried out in an orderly manner and that the audit found no deficiencies. the problems highlighted in the report and to be addressed by the agencies include the need to increase transparency in public procurement procedures, to make the conflict of interest procedure more effective and to further strengthen internal control systems. at its march meeting, the cont committee decided to accept the report and to close the accounts of that authority for 2013. i supported the adoption of the report in the committee vote and in the plenary vote on 29 april.
in writing. ‒ following the presentation of the annual report of the european court of auditors for the financial year 2013, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out a financial audit of the general budget of the european union concerning the european fisheries control agency in the context of the closure of the accounts procedure for 2013. the court of auditors has found that the annual accounts of the european fisheries control agency for the financial year 2013 are reliable and that the underlying transactions were legal and regular. the court welcomes the introduction of the forecasting procedure for carrying over appropriations. the final audit report concludes that the financial review was carried out in an orderly manner and that no major deficiencies were found during the investigation. the committee decided at its meeting at the end of march to grant the discharge and to close the 2013 accounts. i voted in committee and in plenary to grant the discharge.
in writing. ‒ in line with the european people's party's line, i voted in favour of granting a budgetary discharge to the european fisheries control agency. it is of the utmost importance that the european fisheries control agency manages these resources responsibly. therefore, any observations and suggestions made by the european court of auditors should be duly taken into account by the european fisheries control agency. we want the eu institutions to manage the resources entrusted to them responsibly. they should set an example to the eu member states in the area of responsible budgetary management.
in writing. ‒ the european court of auditors has prepared its annual report for the financial year 2013, which was presented to the european parliament's plenary and then to the committee on budgetary control. following the presentation of the report, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out a financial audit of the general budget of the european union concerning the implementation of the budgets of the agencies and offices in the context of the closure of accounts procedure for the financial year 2013. the committee's primary task is to ensure and monitor the proper and efficient implementation of the community budget. the final report on the annual accounts of the european union agencies and offices for the financial year 2012 concludes that the financial controls were carried out in an orderly manner and that the audit found no deficiencies. the problems highlighted in the report and to be addressed by the agencies include the need to increase transparency in public procurement procedures, to make the conflict of interest procedure more effective and to further strengthen internal control systems. at its march meeting, the cont committee decided to accept the report and to close the accounts of that authority for 2013. i supported the adoption of the report in the committee vote and in the plenary vote on 29 april.
in writing. ‒ following the presentation of the annual report of the european court of auditors for the financial year 2013, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out a financial audit of the general budget of the european union concerning the european food safety agency in the context of the closure of the accounts procedure for the financial year 2013. the report notes that, despite the reduction in appropriations carried over and the fact that the cost transfers remained within the limits of the financial rules, there is still a need for further budgetary control. the report calls for the agency to adopt a uniform policy on conflicts of interest. the final audit report concludes that the financial review was carried out in an orderly manner and that no major deficiencies were found during the investigation. the committee decided at its meeting at the end of march to grant the discharge and to close the 2013 accounts. i voted in committee and in plenary to grant the discharge.
in writing. ‒ in line with the european people's party's line, i voted in favour of granting a budgetary discharge to the european food safety authority. it is of the utmost importance that the european food safety authority manages those resources responsibly. therefore, the european food safety authority should duly take into account any observations and suggestions made by the european court of auditors. we want the eu institutions to manage the resources entrusted to them responsibly. they should set an example to the eu member states in the area of responsible budgetary management.
in writing. ‒ the european court of auditors has prepared its annual report for the financial year 2013, which was presented to the european parliament's plenary and then to the committee on budgetary control. following the presentation of the report, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out a financial audit of the general budget of the european union concerning the implementation of the budgets of the agencies and offices in the context of the closure of accounts procedure for the financial year 2013. the committee's primary task is to ensure and monitor the proper and efficient implementation of the community budget. the final report on the annual accounts of the european union agencies and offices for the financial year 2012 concludes that the financial controls were carried out in an orderly manner and that the audit found no deficiencies. the problems highlighted in the report and to be addressed by the agencies include the need to increase transparency in public procurement procedures, to make the conflict of interest procedure more effective and to further strengthen internal control systems. at its march meeting, the cont committee decided to accept the report and to close the accounts of that authority for 2013. i supported the adoption of the report in the committee vote and in the plenary vote on 29 april.
in writing. ‒ following the presentation of the annual report of the european court of auditors for the financial year 2013, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out, in the context of the closure of the accounts procedure for 2013, a financial audit of the general budget of the european union concerning the european institute for gender equality. the court of auditors found that the annual accounts of the institute for the financial year 2013 were reliable and that the underlying transactions were legal and regular. the court welcomes the monitoring system set up by the institute, which improves public procurement, planning and control, and the internal control system for budgeting, which ensures adequate control of the implementation of budgeting. the court of auditors confirmed that the annual accounts of the institute for the financial year 2013 present a reliable and true picture of the institute's financial position as at 31 december 2013 in all material respects and that the institute's operations and cash flows for the financial year 2013 are in accordance with the financial regulation. the final audit report concludes that the financial review was carried out in an orderly manner and that no major deficiencies were found during the investigation. the committee decided at its meeting at the end of march to grant the discharge and to close the 2013 accounts. i voted in committee and in plenary to grant the discharge.
in writing. ‒ in line with the european people's party's line, i voted in favour of granting a budgetary discharge to the european institute for gender equality. it is of the utmost importance that the european institute for gender equality manages these resources responsibly. the european institute for gender equality should therefore take due account of any observations and suggestions made by the european court of auditors. we want the eu institutions to manage the resources entrusted to them responsibly. they should set an example to the eu member states in the area of responsible budgetary management.
in writing. ‒ the european court of auditors has prepared its annual report for the financial year 2013, which was presented to the european parliament's plenary and then to the committee on budgetary control. following the presentation of the report, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out a financial audit of the general budget of the european union concerning the implementation of the budgets of the agencies and offices in the context of the closure of accounts procedure for the financial year 2013. the committee's primary task is to ensure and monitor the proper and efficient implementation of the community budget. the final report on the annual accounts of the european union agencies and offices for the financial year 2012 concludes that the financial controls were carried out in an orderly manner and that the audit found no deficiencies. the problems highlighted in the report and to be addressed by the agencies include the need to increase transparency in public procurement procedures, to make the conflict of interest procedure more effective and to further strengthen internal control systems. at its march meeting, the cont committee decided to accept the report and to close the accounts of that authority for 2013. i supported the adoption of the report in the committee vote and in the plenary vote on 29 april.
in writing. ‒ following the presentation of the annual report of the european court of auditors for the financial year 2013, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out, in the context of the closure of the accounts procedure for 2013, a financial audit of the general budget of the european union concerning the european insurance and occupational pensions authority. the committee's primary task is to ensure and monitor the proper and efficient implementation of the community budget. the court of auditors has found that the audits have provided it with reasonable assurance that the annual accounts of the authority for the financial year 2013 are reliable and that the underlying transactions are legal and regular. the final audit report concludes that the financial review was carried out in an orderly manner and that no major deficiencies were found during the investigation. the committee decided at its meeting at the end of march to grant the discharge and to close the 2013 accounts. i voted in committee and in plenary to grant the discharge.
in writing. ‒ in line with the european people's party's line, i voted in favour of granting a budgetary discharge to the european insurance and occupational pensions authority. it is of the utmost importance that the european insurance and occupational pensions authority manages those resources responsibly. therefore, any observations and suggestions made by the european court of auditors should be duly taken into account by the european insurance and occupational pensions authority. we want the eu institutions to manage the resources entrusted to them responsibly. they should set an example to the eu member states in the area of responsible budgetary management.
in writing. ‒ the european court of auditors has prepared its annual report for the financial year 2013, which was presented to the european parliament's plenary and then to the committee on budgetary control. following the presentation of the report, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out a financial audit of the general budget of the european union concerning the implementation of the budgets of the agencies and offices in the context of the closure of accounts procedure for the financial year 2013. the committee's primary task is to ensure and monitor the proper and efficient implementation of the community budget. the final report on the annual accounts of the european union agencies and offices for the financial year 2012 concludes that the financial controls were carried out in an orderly manner and that the audit found no deficiencies. the problems highlighted in the report and to be addressed by the agencies include the need to increase transparency in public procurement procedures, to make the conflict of interest procedure more effective and to further strengthen internal control systems. at its march meeting, the cont committee decided to accept the report and to close the accounts of that authority for 2013. i supported the adoption of the report in the committee vote and in the plenary vote on 29 april.
in writing. ‒ following the presentation of the annual report of the european court of auditors for the financial year 2013, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out a financial audit of the general budget of the european union concerning the european institute of innovation and technology in the context of the closure of the accounts procedure for 2013. the court of auditors stated that the institute's annual accounts were reliable but that it could not find sufficient and appropriate audit evidence as to the legality and regularity of the transactions. the final report highlights that the main problem with the european institute of innovation and technology is that, for the second year running, the agency has not been able to adequately demonstrate the legality and regularity of the grants paid. the court's inquiry also revealed irregularities in payment procedures and calls on the agency to strengthen its handling of public procurement procedures and staff matters. at its meeting at the end of march, the committee decided to postpone the granting of the discharge, considering that further clarification of the agency's 2013 financial management is required in order to receive the final accounts. i voted with the european people's party in both the committee vote and the plenary vote, in favour of postponing the granting of the discharge.
in writing. ‒ following the presentation of the annual report of the european court of auditors for the financial year 2013, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out a financial audit of the general budget of the european union concerning the european institute of innovation and technology in the context of the closure of the accounts procedure for 2013. the court of auditors stated that the institute's annual accounts were reliable but that it could not find sufficient and appropriate audit evidence as to the legality and regularity of the transactions. the final report highlights that the main problem with the european institute of innovation and technology is that, for the second year running, the agency has not been able to adequately demonstrate the legality and regularity of the grants paid. the court's inquiry also revealed irregularities in payment procedures and calls on the agency to strengthen its handling of public procurement procedures and staff matters. at its meeting at the end of march, the committee decided to postpone the granting of the discharge, considering that further clarification of the agency's 2013 financial management is required in order to receive the final accounts. i voted with the european people's party in both the committee vote and the plenary vote, in favour of postponing the granting of the discharge.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of postponing the decision on the final accounts of the european institute of innovation and technology (eit) for the financial year 2013. the committee has examined the eit's financial statements in detail and has rightly drawn attention to some concerns, such as problems with the legality and regularity of the institution's grant transactions or the conclusions drawn in the internal audit service's report. the points made in the report will be of great help in ensuring that the institute operates more efficiently and in accordance with the rules in all areas in the future. the commission notes that the 2013 annual accounts of the european banking authority (eba) and the european banking authority (eba) are based on the annual accounts of the european banking authority (eba) and the european banking authority (eba).
in writing. ‒ following the presentation of the annual report of the european court of auditors for the financial year 2013, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out a financial audit of the general budget of the european union concerning the european medicines agency in the context of the closure of the accounts procedure for the financial year 2013. the court of auditors has found that the annual accounts of the european medicines agency for the financial year 2013 are reliable and that the underlying transactions were legal and regular. it draws the agency's attention to the need to ensure full transparency in recruitment procedures. the report calls on the agency to compile a list of the regional patient organisations with which it cooperates and to make it public in the interests of transparency. the final audit report concludes that the financial review was carried out in an orderly manner and that no major deficiencies were found during the investigation. the committee decided at its meeting at the end of march to grant the discharge and to close the 2013 accounts. i voted in committee and in plenary to grant the discharge.
in writing. ‒ in line with the european people's party's line, i voted in favour of granting a budgetary discharge to the european medicines agency. it is of the utmost importance that the european medicines agency manages these resources responsibly. therefore, the european medicines agency should take due account of any observations and suggestions made by the european court of auditors. we want the eu institutions to manage the resources entrusted to them responsibly. they should set an example to the eu member states in the area of responsible budgetary management.
in writing. ‒ the european court of auditors has prepared its annual report for the financial year 2013, which was presented to the european parliament's plenary and then to the committee on budgetary control. following the presentation of the report, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out a financial audit of the general budget of the european union concerning the implementation of the budgets of the agencies and offices in the context of the closure of accounts procedure for the financial year 2013. the committee's primary task is to ensure and monitor the proper and efficient implementation of the community budget. the final report on the annual accounts of the european union agencies and offices for the financial year 2012 concludes that the financial controls were carried out in an orderly manner and that the audit found no deficiencies. the problems highlighted in the report and to be addressed by the agencies include the need to increase transparency in public procurement procedures, to make the conflict of interest procedure more effective and to further strengthen internal control systems. at its march meeting, the cont committee decided to accept the report and to close the accounts of that authority for 2013. i supported the adoption of the report in the committee vote and in the plenary vote on 29 april.
in writing. ‒ following the presentation by the european court of auditors of its annual report for the financial year 2013, the committee on budgetary control carried out a financial audit of the general budget of the european union concerning the european monitoring centre for drugs and drug addiction in the context of the closure of the accounts for the financial year 2013. the european parliament has approved the closure of the accounts of the european monitoring centre for drugs and drug addiction for the financial year 2013. the court of auditors concluded that it has obtained assurances as to the reliability of the annual accounts for the financial year 2013 and as to the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions. the court stressed the need for the observatory to continue to strive to improve the efficiency of our procurement procedures, in particular in terms of transparency, conciliation and equal treatment. the final audit report concludes that the financial review was carried out in an orderly manner and that no major deficiencies were found during the investigation. the committee decided at its meeting at the end of march to grant the discharge and to close the 2013 accounts. i voted in committee and in plenary to grant the discharge.
in writing. ‒ in line with the european people's party's line, i voted in favour of granting a budgetary exemption to the european monitoring centre for drugs and drug addiction. it is of the utmost importance that the european monitoring centre for drugs and drug addiction manages these resources responsibly. therefore, any observations and suggestions made by the european court of auditors should be duly taken into account by the european monitoring centre for drugs and drug addiction. we want the eu institutions to manage the resources entrusted to them responsibly. they should set an example to the eu member states in the area of responsible budgetary management.
in writing. ‒ the european court of auditors has prepared its annual report for the financial year 2013, which was presented to the european parliament's plenary and then to the committee on budgetary control. following the presentation of the report, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out a financial audit of the general budget of the european union concerning the implementation of the budgets of the agencies and offices in the context of the closure of accounts procedure for the financial year 2013. the committee's primary task is to ensure and monitor the proper and efficient implementation of the community budget. the final report on the annual accounts of the european union agencies and offices for the financial year 2012 concludes that the financial controls were carried out in an orderly manner and that the audit found no deficiencies. the problems highlighted in the report and to be addressed by the agencies include the need to increase transparency in public procurement procedures, to make the conflict of interest procedure more effective and to further strengthen internal control systems. at its march meeting, the cont committee decided to accept the report and to close the accounts of that authority for 2013. i supported the adoption of the report in the committee vote and in the plenary vote on 29 april.
in writing. ‒ following the presentation of the annual report of the european court of auditors for the financial year 2013, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out a financial audit of the general budget of the european union concerning the european maritime safety agency in the context of the closure of the accounts procedure for the financial year 2013. the court of auditors has found that the annual accounts of the european maritime safety agency for the financial year 2013 are reliable and that the underlying transactions were legal and regular. welcomes the adoption of the conflict of interest policy, the ethics training organised to avoid conflicts of interest and further encourages the strengthening of transparency. the final audit report concludes that the financial review was carried out in an orderly manner and that no major deficiencies were found during the investigation. the committee decided at its meeting at the end of march to grant the discharge and to close the 2013 accounts. i voted in committee and in plenary to grant the discharge.
in writing. ‒ in line with the european people's party's line, i voted in favour of granting a budgetary discharge to the european maritime safety agency. it is of the utmost importance that the european maritime safety agency manages these resources responsibly. therefore, the european maritime safety agency should take due account of any observations and suggestions made by the european court of auditors. we want the eu institutions to manage the resources entrusted to them responsibly. they should set an example to the eu member states in the area of responsible budgetary management.
in writing. ‒ the european court of auditors has prepared its annual report for the financial year 2013, which was presented to the european parliament's plenary and then to the committee on budgetary control. following the presentation of the report, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out a financial audit of the general budget of the european union concerning the implementation of the budgets of the agencies and offices in the context of the closure of accounts procedure for the financial year 2013. the committee's primary task is to ensure and monitor the proper and efficient implementation of the community budget. the final report on the annual accounts of the european union agencies and offices for the financial year 2012 concludes that the financial controls were carried out in an orderly manner and that the audit found no deficiencies. the problems highlighted in the report and to be addressed by the agencies include the need to increase transparency in public procurement procedures, to make the conflict of interest procedure more effective and to further strengthen internal control systems. at its march meeting, the cont committee decided to accept the report and to close the accounts of that authority for 2013. i supported the adoption of the report in the committee vote and in the plenary vote on 29 april.
in writing. ‒ the opinion of the transport committee has been fully incorporated in the discharge report. based on the data contained in the exemption, the report highlights the important role of the agency as the guardian of european maritime safety. the agency's powers were strengthened following the adoption of the amendment to the regulation establishing it in february 2013. the agency should be provided with the financial, material and human resources necessary to enable it to carry out its tasks successfully. i voted for the 2013 discharge.
in writing. ‒ following the presentation of the annual report of the european court of auditors for the financial year 2013, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out a financial audit of the general budget of the european union concerning the european network and information security agency in the context of the closure of the accounts procedure for 2013. the court of auditors has conducted its examinations with a view to establishing whether the annual accounts of the european network and information security agency for the financial year 2013 are reliable and that the underlying transactions are legal and regular. at the same time, the report draws attention to the potential for cost-effective and environmentally friendly development measures. administrative costs could be reduced if the agency had a headquarters, and he therefore asks the agency to develop a strategy to this end. the final audit report concludes that the financial review was carried out in an orderly manner and that no major deficiencies were found during the investigation. the committee decided at its meeting at the end of march to grant the discharge and to close the 2013 accounts. i voted in committee and in plenary to grant the discharge.
in writing. ‒ in line with the european people's party's line, i voted in favour of granting a budgetary discharge to the european union agency for network and information security. it is of the utmost importance that the european union agency for network and information security manages those resources responsibly. the european union agency for network and information security should therefore take due account of any observations and suggestions made by the european court of auditors. we want the eu institutions to manage the resources entrusted to them responsibly. they should set an example to the eu member states in the area of responsible budgetary management.
in writing. ‒ the european court of auditors has prepared its annual report for the financial year 2013, which was presented to the european parliament's plenary and then to the committee on budgetary control. following the presentation of the report, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out a financial audit of the general budget of the european union concerning the implementation of the budgets of the agencies and offices in the context of the closure of accounts procedure for the financial year 2013. the committee's primary task is to ensure and monitor the proper and efficient implementation of the community budget. the final report on the annual accounts of the european union agencies and offices for the financial year 2012 concludes that the financial controls were carried out in an orderly manner and that the audit found no deficiencies. the problems highlighted in the report and to be addressed by the agencies include the need to increase transparency in public procurement procedures, to make the conflict of interest procedure more effective and to further strengthen internal control systems. at its march meeting, the cont committee decided to accept the report and to close the accounts of that authority for 2013. i supported the adoption of the report in the committee vote and in the plenary vote on 29 april.
in writing. ‒ following the presentation of the annual report of the european court of auditors for the financial year 2013, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out a financial audit of the general budget of the european union concerning the european railway agency in the context of the closure of the accounts procedure for the financial year 2013. the european court of auditors has found that the annual accounts of the agency for the financial year 2013 are reliable and that the underlying transactions were legal and regular. the report regrets that a clear policy to prevent and address conflicts of interest has still not been adopted. the final audit report concludes that the financial review was carried out in an orderly manner and that no major deficiencies were found during the investigation. the committee decided at its meeting at the end of march to grant the discharge and to close the accounts for 2013. i voted in committee and in plenary to grant the discharge.
in writing. ‒ in line with the european people's party's line, i voted in favour of granting budgetary discharge to the european railway agency. it is of the utmost importance that the european railway agency manages these resources responsibly. therefore, any observations and suggestions made by the european court of auditors should be duly taken into account by the european railway agency. we want the eu institutions to manage the resources entrusted to them responsibly. they should set an example to the eu member states in the area of responsible budgetary management.
in writing. ‒ the european court of auditors has prepared its annual report for the financial year 2013, which was presented to the european parliament's plenary and then to the committee on budgetary control. following the presentation of the report, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out a financial audit of the general budget of the european union concerning the implementation of the budgets of the agencies and offices in the context of the closure of accounts procedure for the financial year 2013. the committee's primary task is to ensure and monitor the proper and efficient implementation of the community budget. the final report on the annual accounts of the european union agencies and offices for the financial year 2012 concludes that the financial controls were carried out in an orderly manner and that the audit found no deficiencies. the problems highlighted in the report and to be addressed by the agencies include the need to increase transparency in public procurement procedures, to make the conflict of interest procedure more effective and to further strengthen internal control systems. at its march meeting, the cont committee decided to accept the report and to close the accounts of that authority for 2013. i supported the adoption of the report in the committee vote and in the plenary vote on 29 april.
in writing. ‒ the opinion of the transport committee has been fully incorporated in the discharge report. based on the data contained in the discharge, the report shall highlight the effective functioning of the agency. the agency should be provided with the financial, material and human resources necessary to enable it to carry out its tasks successfully. for efficient operation, it would be important to rationalise the operation of two sites to one site. i voted for the 2013 discharge.
in writing. ‒ following the presentation of the annual report of the european court of auditors for the financial year 2013, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out, in the context of the closure of the accounts procedure for 2013, a financial audit of the general budget of the european union concerning the european securities and markets authority. the committee's primary task is to ensure and monitor the proper and efficient implementation of the community budget. the european parliament has approved the closure of the accounts of the european securities and markets authority for the financial year 2013. the court of auditors found the operations on which the authority's annual accounts are based to be legal and regular. welcomes the modified application procedure and the integration of staff and budget planning into the annual work plan, but points out that there are still gaps in cost planning. the final audit report concludes that the financial review was carried out in an orderly manner and that no major deficiencies were found during the investigation. the committee decided at its meeting at the end of march to grant the discharge and to close the 2013 accounts. i voted in committee and in plenary to grant the discharge.
in writing. ‒ in line with the european people's party's line, i voted in favour of granting a budgetary discharge to the european securities and markets authority. it is of the utmost importance that the european securities and markets authority manages those resources responsibly. therefore, the european securities and markets authority should take due account of any observations and suggestions made by the european court of auditors. we want the eu institutions to manage the resources entrusted to them responsibly. they should set an example to the eu member states in the area of responsible budgetary management.
in writing. ‒ the european court of auditors has prepared its annual report for the financial year 2013, which was presented to the european parliament's plenary and then to the committee on budgetary control. following the presentation of the report, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out a financial audit of the general budget of the european union concerning the implementation of the budgets of the agencies and offices in the context of the closure of accounts procedure for the financial year 2013. the committee's primary task is to ensure and monitor the proper and efficient implementation of the community budget. the final report on the annual accounts of the european union agencies and offices for the financial year 2012 concludes that the financial controls were carried out in an orderly manner and that the audit found no deficiencies. the problems highlighted in the report and to be addressed by the agencies include the need to increase transparency in public procurement procedures, to make the conflict of interest procedure more effective and to further strengthen internal control systems. at its march meeting, the cont committee decided to accept the report and to close the accounts of that authority for 2013. i supported the adoption of the report in the committee vote and in the plenary vote on 29 april.
in writing. ‒ following the presentation of the annual report of the european court of auditors for the financial year 2013, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out a financial audit of the general budget of the european union concerning the european training foundation in the context of the closure of the accounts procedure for 2013. the court of auditors has found that the annual accounts for the financial year 2013 are reliable and that the underlying transactions were legal and regular. welcomes the guidelines adopted and published by the foundation on the prevention and management of conflicts of interest and welcomes the efforts made to publish declarations of conflicts of interest and cvs. the final audit report concludes that the financial review was carried out in an orderly manner and that no major deficiencies were found during the investigation. the committee decided at its meeting at the end of march to grant the discharge and to close the 2013 accounts. i voted in committee and in plenary to grant the discharge.
in writing. ‒ in line with the european people's party's line, i voted in favour of granting a budgetary discharge to the european training foundation. it is of the utmost importance that the european training foundation manages these resources responsibly. therefore, the european training foundation should take due account of any observations and suggestions made by the european court of auditors. we want the eu institutions to manage the resources entrusted to them responsibly. they should set an example to the eu member states in the area of responsible budgetary management.
in writing. ‒ the european court of auditors has prepared its annual report for the financial year 2013, which was presented to the european parliament's plenary and then to the committee on budgetary control. following the presentation of the report, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out a financial audit of the general budget of the european union concerning the implementation of the budgets of the agencies and offices in the context of the closure of accounts procedure for the financial year 2013. the committee's primary task is to ensure and monitor the proper and efficient implementation of the community budget. the final report on the annual accounts of the european union agencies and offices for the financial year 2012 concludes that the financial controls were carried out in an orderly manner and that the audit found no deficiencies. the problems highlighted in the report and to be addressed by the agencies include the need to increase transparency in public procurement procedures, to make the conflict of interest procedure more effective and to further strengthen internal control systems. at its march meeting, the cont committee decided to accept the report and to close the accounts of that authority for 2013. i supported the adoption of the report in the committee vote and in the plenary vote on 29 april.
in writing. ‒ following the presentation of the annual report of the european court of auditors for the financial year 2013, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out a financial audit of the general budget of the european union concerning the european agency for the operational management of large-scale it systems in the context of the closure of the accounts for the financial year 2013. the court emphasises that the agency should pay greater attention to internal control, budget management and conflicts of interest. the final audit report concludes that the financial review was carried out in an orderly manner and that no major deficiencies were found during the investigation. the committee decided at its meeting at the end of march to grant the discharge and to close the 2013 accounts. i voted in committee and in plenary to grant the discharge.
in writing. ‒ in line with the european people's party's line, i voted in favour of granting a budgetary discharge to the european agency for the operational management of large-scale it systems for the area of freedom, security and justice. it is of the utmost importance that the european agency for the operational management of large-scale it systems in the area of freedom, security and justice manages these resources responsibly. therefore, any observations and suggestions made by the european court of auditors should be duly taken into account by the european agency for the operational management of large-scale it systems for the area of freedom, security and justice. we want the eu institutions to manage the resources entrusted to them responsibly. they should set an example to the eu member states in the area of responsible budgetary management.
in writing. ‒ the european court of auditors has prepared its annual report for the financial year 2013, which was presented to the european parliament's plenary and then to the committee on budgetary control. following the presentation of the report, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out a financial audit of the general budget of the european union concerning the implementation of the budgets of the agencies and offices in the context of the closure of accounts procedure for the financial year 2013. the committee's primary task is to ensure and monitor the proper and efficient implementation of the community budget. the final report on the annual accounts of the european union agencies and offices for the financial year 2012 concludes that the financial controls were carried out in an orderly manner and that the audit found no deficiencies. the problems highlighted in the report and to be addressed by the agencies include the need to increase transparency in public procurement procedures, to make the conflict of interest procedure more effective and to further strengthen internal control systems. at its march meeting, the cont committee decided to accept the report and to close the accounts of that authority for 2013. i supported the adoption of the report in the committee vote and in the plenary vote on 29 april.
in writing. ‒ following the presentation of the annual report of the european court of auditors for the financial year 2013, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out, in the context of the closure of the accounts procedure for 2013, a financial audit of the general budget of the european union concerning the european agency for safety and health at work. the committee's primary task is to ensure and monitor the proper and efficient implementation of the community budget. the court of auditors has found that the 2013 financial statements are consistent with the financial position of the agency and that the operations and cash flows for the year are in accordance with the agency's financial regulation. the court of auditors has found the agency's annual accounts for the financial year 2013 to be legal and regular. the final audit report concludes that the financial review was carried out in an orderly manner and that no major deficiencies were found during the investigation. the committee decided at its meeting at the end of march to grant the discharge and to close the accounts for 2013. i voted in committee and in plenary to grant the discharge.
in writing. ‒ in line with the european people's party's line, i voted in favour of granting a budgetary discharge to the european agency for safety and health at work. it is of the utmost importance that the european agency for safety and health at work manages these resources responsibly. therefore, any observations and suggestions made by the european court of auditors should be duly taken into account by the european agency for safety and health at work. we want the eu institutions to manage the resources entrusted to them responsibly. they should set an example to the eu member states in the area of responsible budgetary management.
in writing. ‒ the european court of auditors has prepared its annual report for the financial year 2013, which was presented to the european parliament's plenary and then to the committee on budgetary control. following the presentation of the report, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out a financial audit of the general budget of the european union concerning the implementation of the budgets of the agencies and offices in the context of the closure of accounts procedure for the financial year 2013. the committee's primary task is to ensure and monitor the proper and efficient implementation of the community budget. the final report on the annual accounts of the european union agencies and offices for the financial year 2012 concludes that the financial controls were carried out in an orderly manner and that the audit found no deficiencies. the problems highlighted in the report and to be addressed by the agencies include the need to increase transparency in public procurement procedures, to make the conflict of interest procedure more effective and to further strengthen internal control systems. at its march meeting, the cont committee decided to accept the report and to close the accounts of that authority for 2013. i supported the adoption of the report in the committee vote and in the plenary vote on 29 april.
in writing. ‒ following the presentation by the european court of auditors of its annual report for the financial year 2013, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out a financial audit of the general budget of the european union concerning the euratom supply agency in the context of the closure of accounts procedure for 2013. the committee's primary task is to ensure and monitor the proper and efficient implementation of the community budget. the court of auditors concluded that it had obtained reasonable assurances that the agency's annual accounts for the financial year 2013 were reliable and that the underlying transactions were legal and regular. the report draws attention to the fact that the commission has covered the additional costs of salaries and administrative services in the implementation of the agency's budget, thus undermining the agency's autonomy, and urges the restoration of institutional autonomy. the final audit report concludes that the financial review was carried out in an orderly manner and that no major deficiencies were found during the investigation. the committee decided at its meeting at the end of march to grant the discharge and to close the 2013 accounts. i supported the granting of the discharge in the committee vote and in the plenary vote, together with the european people's party.
in writing. ‒ in line with the european people's party's line, i voted in favour of granting budgetary discharge to the euratom supply agency. it is of the utmost importance that the euratom supply agency manages these resources responsibly. therefore, any observations and suggestions made by the european court of auditors should be duly taken into account by the euratom supply agency. we want the eu institutions to manage the resources entrusted to them responsibly. they should set an example to the eu member states in the area of responsible budgetary management.
in writing. ‒ the european court of auditors has prepared its annual report for the financial year 2013, which was presented to the european parliament's plenary and then to the committee on budgetary control. following the presentation of the report, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out a financial audit of the general budget of the european union concerning the implementation of the budgets of the agencies and offices in the context of the closure of accounts procedure for the financial year 2013. the committee's primary task is to ensure and monitor the proper and efficient implementation of the community budget. the final report on the annual accounts of the european union agencies and offices for the financial year 2012 concludes that the financial controls were carried out in an orderly manner and that the audit found no deficiencies. the problems highlighted in the report and to be addressed by the agencies include the need to increase transparency in public procurement procedures, to make the conflict of interest procedure more effective and to further strengthen internal control systems. at its march meeting, the cont committee decided to accept the report and to close the accounts of that authority for 2013. i supported the adoption of the report in the committee vote and in the plenary vote on 29 april.
in writing. ‒ following the presentation of the annual report of the european court of auditors for the financial year 2013, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out, in the context of the closure procedure for 2013, a financial audit of the general budget of the european union concerning the european foundation for the improvement of living and working conditions. the committee's primary task is to ensure and monitor the proper and efficient implementation of the community budget. the report welcomes the fact that the foundation's activities, annual reports are publicly available on its website and welcomes the conflict of interest policy adopted in 2014. it emphasises that senior management declarations of interests are public. notes that the foundation has been operating since 1975 and that no agreement has yet been reached with the host country, but welcomes the fact that negotiations on this started in 2014. the final audit report concludes that the financial review was carried out in an orderly manner and that no major deficiencies were found during the investigation. the committee decided at its meeting at the end of march to grant the discharge and to close the 2013 accounts. i voted in committee and in plenary to grant the discharge.
in writing. ‒ in line with the european people's party's line, i voted in favour of granting a budgetary exemption to the european foundation for the improvement of living and working conditions. it is of the utmost importance that the european foundation for the improvement of living and working conditions manages these resources responsibly. the european foundation for the improvement of living and working conditions should therefore take due account of any observations and suggestions made by the european court of auditors. we want the eu institutions to manage the resources entrusted to them responsibly. they should set an example to the eu member states in the area of responsible budgetary management.
in writing. ‒ the european court of auditors has prepared its annual report for the financial year 2013, which was presented to the european parliament's plenary and then to the committee on budgetary control. following the presentation of the report, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out a financial audit of the general budget of the european union concerning the implementation of the budgets of the agencies and offices in the context of the closure of accounts procedure for the financial year 2013. the committee's primary task is to ensure and monitor the proper and efficient implementation of the community budget. the final report on the annual accounts of the european union agencies and offices for the financial year 2012 concludes that the financial controls were carried out in an orderly manner and that the audit found no deficiencies. the problems highlighted in the report and to be addressed by the agencies include the need to increase transparency in public procurement procedures, to make the conflict of interest procedure more effective and to further strengthen internal control systems. at its march meeting, the cont committee decided to accept the report and to close the accounts of that authority for 2013. i supported the adoption of the report in the committee vote and in the plenary vote on 29 april.
in writing. ‒ following the presentation of the annual report of the european court of auditors for the financial year 2013, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out a financial audit of the general budget of the european union in respect of eurojust in the context of the closure of the accounts procedure for 2013. the committee's primary task is to ensure and monitor the proper and efficient implementation of the community budget. the european parliament gives its consent to the closure of the accounts of eurojust for the financial year 2013. welcomes the fact that eurojust has introduced a number of measures to reduce the committed appropriations carried over, but that there are still shortcomings in the budget planning and implementation; the report calls for eurojust to implement a strengthened policy for the prevention and management of conflicts of interest. welcomes the fact that the cvs of the management board and the executive director are public and acknowledges that the publication of the conflict of interest declarations is also in progress; the final audit report concluded that the financial review was carried out in an orderly manner and that no significant deficiencies had been identified in the investigation. the committee decided at its meeting at the end of march to grant the discharge and to close the 2013 accounts. i voted in committee and in plenary to grant the discharge.
in writing. ‒ in line with the european people's party's line, i voted in favour of granting a budgetary discharge to the european union agency for criminal justice cooperation. it is of the utmost importance that the european union agency for criminal justice cooperation manages those resources responsibly. the european union agency for criminal justice cooperation should therefore take due account of any observations and suggestions made by the european court of auditors. we want the eu institutions to manage the resources entrusted to them responsibly. they should set an example to the eu member states in the area of responsible budgetary management.
in writing. ‒ the european court of auditors has prepared its annual report for the financial year 2013, which was presented to the european parliament's plenary and then to the committee on budgetary control. following the presentation of the report, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out a financial audit of the general budget of the european union concerning the implementation of the budgets of the agencies and offices in the context of the closure of accounts procedure for the financial year 2013. the committee's primary task is to ensure and monitor the proper and efficient implementation of the community budget. the final report on the annual accounts of the european union agencies and offices for the financial year 2012 concludes that the financial controls were carried out in an orderly manner and that the audit found no deficiencies. the problems highlighted in the report and to be addressed by the agencies include the need to increase transparency in public procurement procedures, to make the conflict of interest procedure more effective and to further strengthen internal control systems. at its march meeting, the cont committee decided to accept the report and to close the accounts of that authority for 2013. i supported the adoption of the report in the committee vote and in the plenary vote on 29 april.
in writing. ‒ following the presentation of the annual report of the european court of auditors for the financial year 2013, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out a financial audit of the general budget of the european union in respect of europol in the context of the closure of the accounts procedure for 2013. the committee's primary task is to ensure and monitor the proper and efficient implementation of the community budget. the european parliament has approved the closure of the accounts of europol for the financial year 2013. while the court of auditors found the operations underlying europol's annual accounts to be legal and regular, it also highlighted the need for corrective measures in the agency's accounting system. the final audit report concludes that the financial review was carried out in an orderly manner and that no major deficiencies were found during the investigation. the committee decided at its meeting at the end of march to grant the discharge and to close the 2013 accounts. i voted in committee and in plenary to grant the discharge.
in writing. ‒ in line with the european people's party's line, i voted in favour of granting a budgetary discharge to the european police office. it is of the utmost importance that the european police office manages these resources responsibly. the european police office should therefore take due account of any observations and suggestions made by the european court of auditors. we want the eu institutions to manage the resources entrusted to them responsibly. they should set an example to the eu member states in the area of responsible budgetary management.
in writing. ‒ the european court of auditors has prepared its annual report for the financial year 2013, which was presented to the european parliament's plenary and then to the committee on budgetary control. following the presentation of the report, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out a financial audit of the general budget of the european union concerning the implementation of the budgets of the agencies and offices in the context of the closure of accounts procedure for the financial year 2013. the committee's primary task is to ensure and monitor the proper and efficient implementation of the community budget. the final report on the annual accounts of the european union agencies and offices for the financial year 2012 concludes that the financial controls were carried out in an orderly manner and that the audit found no deficiencies. the problems highlighted in the report and to be addressed by the agencies include the need to increase transparency in public procurement procedures, to make the conflict of interest procedure more effective and to further strengthen internal control systems. at its march meeting, the cont committee decided to accept the report and to close the accounts of that authority for 2013. i supported the adoption of the report in the committee vote and in the plenary vote on 29 april.
in writing. ‒ following the presentation of the annual report of the european court of auditors for the financial year 2013, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out a financial audit of the general budget of the european union concerning the european union agency for fundamental rights in the context of the closure of the accounts procedure for the financial year 2013. the committee's primary task is to ensure and monitor the proper and efficient implementation of the community budget. the court of auditors has found that the annual accounts of the european union agency for fundamental rights for the financial year 2013 are reliable and that the underlying transactions were legal and regular. welcomes the adoption of interim rules to prevent and manage conflicts of interest. notes that the carry-over of committed appropriations is still high and calls on the agency to put greater emphasis on efficient and effective financial management and to respect the principle of annual budgeting; the final audit report concludes that the financial review was carried out in an orderly manner and that no major deficiencies were found during the investigation. the committee decided at its meeting at the end of march to grant the discharge and to close the 2013 accounts. i voted in committee and in plenary to grant the discharge.
in writing. ‒ in line with the european people's party's line, i voted in favour of granting a budgetary discharge to the european union agency for fundamental rights. it is of the utmost importance that the fundamental rights agency of the european union manages these resources responsibly. the agency should therefore take due account of any observations and suggestions made by the european court of auditors. we want the eu institutions to manage the resources entrusted to them responsibly. they should set an example to the eu member states in the area of responsible budgetary management.
in writing. ‒ the european court of auditors has prepared its annual report for the financial year 2013, which was presented to the european parliament's plenary and then to the committee on budgetary control. following the presentation of the report, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out a financial audit of the general budget of the european union concerning the implementation of the budgets of the agencies and offices in the context of the closure of accounts procedure for the financial year 2013. the committee's primary task is to ensure and monitor the proper and efficient implementation of the community budget. the final report on the annual accounts of the european union agencies and offices for the financial year 2012 concludes that the financial controls were carried out in an orderly manner and that the audit found no deficiencies. the problems highlighted in the report and to be addressed by the agencies include the need to increase transparency in public procurement procedures, to make the conflict of interest procedure more effective and to further strengthen internal control systems. at its march meeting, the cont committee decided to accept the report and to close the accounts of that authority for 2013. i supported the adoption of the report in the committee vote and in the plenary vote on 29 april.
in writing. ‒ following the presentation of the annual report of the european court of auditors for the financial year 2013, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out, in the context of the closure of the accounts procedure for 2013, a financial audit of the general budget of the european union concerning the european agency for the management of operational cooperation at the external borders of the member states of the european union. the committee's primary task is to ensure and monitor the proper and efficient implementation of the community budget. the court stated that the audits had provided it with assurance on the reliability of the annual accounts for the financial year 2013, but that it had not found adequate and sufficient audit evidence that the underlying transactions were regular and legal. it stresses that the recruitment procedures show significant deficiencies in terms of transparency and equal treatment and that it is therefore necessary to expect the agency to remedy those problems. the final audit report concludes that the financial review was carried out in an orderly manner and that no major deficiencies were identified during the investigation other than the problems mentioned. the committee decided at its meeting at the end of march to grant the discharge and to close the 2013 accounts. i voted in committee and in plenary to grant the discharge.
in writing. ‒ in line with the european people's party's line, i voted in favour of granting a budgetary discharge to the european agency for the management of operational cooperation at the external borders of the member states of the european union. it is of the utmost importance that the european agency for the management of operational cooperation at the external borders of the member states of the european union manages these resources responsibly. therefore, any observations and suggestions made by the european court of auditors should be duly taken into account by the european agency for the management of operational cooperation at the external borders of the member states of the european union. we want the eu institutions to manage the resources entrusted to them responsibly. they should set an example to the eu member states in the area of responsible budgetary management.
in writing. ‒ the european court of auditors has prepared its annual report for the financial year 2013, which was presented to the european parliament's plenary and then to the committee on budgetary control. following the presentation of the report, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out a financial audit of the general budget of the european union concerning the implementation of the budgets of the agencies and offices in the context of the closure of accounts procedure for the financial year 2013. the committee's primary task is to ensure and monitor the proper and efficient implementation of the community budget. the final report on the annual accounts of the european union agencies and offices for the financial year 2012 concludes that the financial controls were carried out in an orderly manner and that the audit found no deficiencies. the problems highlighted in the report and to be addressed by the agencies include the need to increase transparency in public procurement procedures, to make the conflict of interest procedure more effective and to further strengthen internal control systems. at its march meeting, the cont committee decided to accept the report and to close the accounts of that authority for 2013. i supported the adoption of the report in the committee vote and in the plenary vote on 29 april.
in writing. ‒ following the presentation of the annual report of the european court of auditors for the financial year 2013, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out a financial audit of the general budget of the european union concerning the european gnss agency in the context of the closure of the accounts procedure for 2013. the committee's primary task is to ensure and monitor the proper and efficient implementation of the community budget. the court of auditors has found that the audits provided sufficient assurance that the annual accounts of the agency for the financial year 2013 are reliable and that the underlying transactions are legal and regular. the final audit report concludes that the financial review was carried out in an orderly manner and that no major deficiencies were found during the investigation. the committee decided at its meeting at the end of march to grant the discharge and to close the 2013 accounts. i voted in committee and in plenary to grant the discharge.
in writing. ‒ in line with the european people's party's line, i voted in favour of granting a budgetary discharge to the european gnss agency. it is of the utmost importance that the european gnss agency manages these resources responsibly. therefore, the european gnss agency should take due account of any observations and suggestions made by the european court of auditors. we want the eu institutions to manage the resources entrusted to them responsibly. they should set an example to the eu member states in the area of responsible budgetary management.
in writing. ‒ the european court of auditors has prepared its annual report for the financial year 2013, which was presented to the european parliament's plenary and then to the committee on budgetary control. following the presentation of the report, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out a financial audit of the general budget of the european union concerning the implementation of the budgets of the agencies and offices in the context of the closure of accounts procedure for the financial year 2013. the committee's primary task is to ensure and monitor the proper and efficient implementation of the community budget. the final report on the annual accounts of the european union agencies and offices for the financial year 2012 concludes that the financial controls were carried out in an orderly manner and that the audit found no deficiencies. the problems highlighted in the report and to be addressed by the agencies include the need to increase transparency in public procurement procedures, to make the conflict of interest procedure more effective and to further strengthen internal control systems. at its march meeting, the cont committee decided to accept the report and to close the accounts of that authority for 2013. i supported the adoption of the report in the committee vote and in the plenary vote on 29 april.
in writing. ‒ following the presentation by the european court of auditors of its annual report for the financial year 2013, the committee on budgetary control carried out a financial audit of the general budget of the european union for artemis in the context of the closure of accounts procedure for 2013. the committee's primary task is to ensure and monitor the proper and efficient implementation of the community budget. the court's annual report stated that it had obtained assurance that the institute's annual accounts were reliable but could not find sufficient and appropriate audit evidence as to the legality and regularity of the transactions. it highlights the lack of an internal control system and of a comprehensive set of rules for detecting and dealing with incompatibilities. it is concerned that the agreement with nfa does not contain practical arrangements for ex post controls. it also highlights the low rate of budget implementation. the report points out that the committee did not recommend granting the exemption until these were clarified. at its meeting at the end of march, the committee decided to postpone the granting of the discharge, considering that further clarification of the agency's 2013 financial management is required in order to receive the final accounts. i voted in committee and in plenary to postpone the granting of the discharge.
in writing. ‒ following the presentation by the european court of auditors of its annual report for the financial year 2013, the committee on budgetary control carried out a financial audit of the general budget of the european union for artemis in the context of the closure of accounts procedure for 2013. the committee's primary task is to ensure and monitor the proper and efficient implementation of the community budget. the court's annual report stated that it had obtained assurance that the institute's annual accounts were reliable but could not find sufficient and appropriate audit evidence as to the legality and regularity of the transactions. it highlights the lack of an internal control system and of a comprehensive set of rules for detecting and dealing with incompatibilities. it is concerned that the agreement with nfa does not contain practical arrangements for ex post controls. it also highlights the low rate of budget implementation. the report points out that the committee did not recommend granting the exemption until these were clarified. at its meeting at the end of march, the committee decided to postpone the granting of the discharge, considering that further clarification of the agency's 2013 financial management is required in order to receive the final accounts. i therefore voted in favour of postponing the granting of the exemption in line with the european people's party line.
in writing. ‒ following the presentation by the european court of auditors of its annual report for the financial year 2013, the committee on budgetary control carried out a financial audit of the general budget of the european union for artemis in the context of the closure of accounts procedure for 2013. the committee's primary task is to ensure and monitor the proper and efficient implementation of the community budget. the court's annual report stated that it had obtained assurance that the institute's annual accounts were reliable but could not find sufficient and appropriate audit evidence as to the legality and regularity of the transactions. it highlights the lack of an internal control system and of a comprehensive set of rules for detecting and dealing with incompatibilities. it is concerned that the agreement with nfa does not contain practical arrangements for ex post controls. it also highlights the low rate of budget implementation. the report points out that the committee did not recommend granting the exemption until these were clarified. at its meeting at the end of march, the committee decided to postpone the granting of the discharge, considering that further clarification of the agency's 2013 financial management is required in order to receive the final accounts. i voted in committee and in plenary to postpone the granting of the discharge.
in writing. ‒ following the presentation of the annual report of the european court of auditors for the financial year 2013, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out a financial audit of the general budget of the european union for clean sky in the context of the closure of the 2013 accounts procedure. the committee's primary task is to ensure and monitor the proper and efficient implementation of the community budget. the court of auditors stated that the audits had provided it with assurance as to the reliability of the annual accounts for the financial year 2013 and the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions. it stresses that, although the delay in payment of budget appropriations has decreased compared to previous years, it is still high. welcomes the further improvement of the management, administrative and financial procedures, but calls for the integration of gmt tools to be improved and for ex post controls to be introduced. the report considers that the functioning of the internal control system needs to be made more efficient. it considers it important to adopt a comprehensive policy on conflicts of interest. the final audit report concluded that the financial and regularity reviews did not reveal any serious deficiencies. the committee decided at its meeting at the end of march to grant the discharge and to close the 2013 accounts. i voted in committee and in plenary to grant the discharge.
in writing. ‒ in line with the european people's party's line, i voted in favour of granting a budgetary discharge to the clean sky joint undertaking. it is of the utmost importance that the clean sky joint undertaking manages these resources responsibly. the european court of auditors should therefore take due account of any observations and suggestions made by the clean sky joint undertaking. we want the eu institutions to manage the resources entrusted to them responsibly. they should set an example to the eu member states in the area of responsible budgetary management.
in writing. ‒ the european court of auditors has prepared its annual report for the financial year 2013, which was presented to the european parliament's plenary and then to the committee on budgetary control. following the presentation of the report, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out a financial audit of the general budget of the european union concerning the implementation of the budgets of the agencies and offices in the context of the closure of accounts procedure for the financial year 2013. the committee's primary task is to ensure and monitor the proper and efficient implementation of the community budget. the final report on the annual accounts of the european union agencies and offices for the financial year 2012 concludes that the financial controls were carried out in an orderly manner and that the audit found no deficiencies. the problems highlighted in the report and to be addressed by the agencies include the need to increase transparency in public procurement procedures, to make the conflict of interest procedure more effective and to further strengthen internal control systems. at its march meeting, the cont committee decided to accept the report and to close the accounts of that authority for 2013. i supported the adoption of the report in the committee vote and in the plenary vote on 29 april.
in writing. ‒ following the presentation by the european court of auditors of its annual report for the financial year 2013, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out, in the context of the closure of accounts procedure for 2013, a financial audit of the general budget of the european union concerning the eniac joint undertaking. on the basis of the court's report, the institution has obtained a sufficient degree of certainty that eniac's annual accounts are reliable, but has not been able to find sufficient and appropriate audit evidence as regards the legality and regularity of the transactions. the report highlights that the court has for the third year running identified weaknesses in the legality and regularity of the annual budget. information on the ex post control strategy is not sufficient to demonstrate the operational effectiveness of the control tools. there is little information on the contribution of the member states to the union payments. it notes that eniac has taken comprehensive measures to address the conflict of interest. the report draws attention to the fact that the exemption was not recommended by the panel until these open issues were clarified. at its meeting at the end of march, the committee decided to postpone the granting of the discharge, considering that further clarification of the agency's 2013 financial management is required in order to receive the final accounts. i voted in committee and in plenary to postpone the granting of the discharge.
in writing. ‒ following the presentation by the european court of auditors of its annual report for the financial year 2013, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out, in the context of the closure of accounts procedure for 2013, a financial audit of the general budget of the european union concerning the eniac joint undertaking. on the basis of the court's report, the institution has obtained a sufficient degree of certainty that eniac's annual accounts are reliable, but has not been able to find sufficient and appropriate audit evidence as regards the legality and regularity of the transactions. the report highlights that the court has for the third year running identified weaknesses in the legality and regularity of the annual budget. information on the ex post control strategy is not sufficient to demonstrate the operational effectiveness of the control tools. there is little information on the contribution of the member states to the union payments. it notes that eniac has taken comprehensive measures to address the conflict of interest. the report draws attention to the fact that the exemption was not recommended by the panel until these open issues were clarified. at its meeting at the end of march, the committee decided to postpone the granting of the discharge, considering that further clarification of the agency's 2013 financial management is required in order to receive the final accounts. i therefore voted in favour of postponing the granting of the exemption in line with the european people's party line.
in writing. ‒ following the presentation by the european court of auditors of its annual report for the financial year 2013, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out, in the context of the closure of accounts procedure for 2013, a financial audit of the general budget of the european union concerning the eniac joint undertaking. on the basis of the court's report, the institution has obtained a sufficient degree of certainty that eniac's annual accounts are reliable, but has not been able to find sufficient and appropriate audit evidence as regards the legality and regularity of the transactions. the report highlights that the court has for the third year running identified weaknesses in the legality and regularity of the annual budget. information on the ex post control strategy is not sufficient to demonstrate the operational effectiveness of the control tools. there is little information on the contribution of the member states to the union payments. it notes that eniac has taken comprehensive measures to address the conflict of interest. the report draws attention to the fact that the exemption was not recommended by the panel until these open issues were clarified. at its meeting at the end of march, the committee decided to postpone the granting of the discharge, considering that further clarification of the agency's 2013 financial management is required in order to receive the final accounts. i voted in committee and in plenary to postpone the granting of the discharge.
in writing. ‒ following the presentation by the european court of auditors of its annual report for the financial year 2013, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out, in the context of the closure of the accounts procedure for 2013, a financial audit of the general budget of the european union concerning the fuel cell and hydrogen joint undertaking. the committee's primary task is to ensure and monitor the proper and efficient implementation of the community budget. the report welcomes the fact that the court of auditors has found the accounts of the fuel cells and hydrogen joint undertaking for the financial year 2013 to be reliable and that the underlying financial transactions were legal and regular in all material respects. it recognises concrete measures to prevent conflicts of interest. requests that the joint undertaking submit to the discharge authority a report on the economic and social benefits of the completed projects, and at the same time a report on the contributions of the members. the final audit report concludes that the financial and regularity reviews of the joint undertaking have not revealed any serious deficiencies. the committee decided at its meeting at the end of march to grant the discharge and to close the 2013 accounts. i voted in committee and in plenary to grant the discharge.
in writing. ‒ in line with the european people's party's line, i voted in favour of granting a budgetary discharge to the fuel cell and hydrogen joint undertaking. it is of the utmost importance that the fuel cells and hydrogen joint undertaking manages these resources responsibly. the joint undertaking should therefore take due account of any observations and suggestions made by the european court of auditors. we want the eu institutions to manage the resources entrusted to them responsibly. they should set an example to the eu member states in the area of responsible budgetary management.
in writing. ‒ the european court of auditors has prepared its annual report for the financial year 2013, which was presented to the european parliament's plenary and then to the committee on budgetary control. following the presentation of the report, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out a financial audit of the general budget of the european union concerning the implementation of the budgets of the agencies and offices in the context of the closure of accounts procedure for the financial year 2013. the committee's primary task is to ensure and monitor the proper and efficient implementation of the community budget. the final report on the annual accounts of the european union agencies and offices for the financial year 2012 concludes that the financial controls were carried out in an orderly manner and that the audit found no deficiencies. the problems highlighted in the report and to be addressed by the agencies include the need to increase transparency in public procurement procedures, to make the conflict of interest procedure more effective and to further strengthen internal control systems. at its march meeting, the cont committee decided to accept the report and to close the accounts of that authority for 2013. i supported the adoption of the report in the committee vote and in the plenary vote on 29 april.
in writing. ‒ following the presentation of the annual report of the european court of auditors for the financial year 2013, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out, in the context of the closure of the accounts procedure for 2013, a financial audit of the general budget of the european union concerning the joint undertaking for research on innovative medicines. the court found the institute's annual accounts to be reliable, but it could not find sufficient and appropriate audit evidence as to the legality and regularity of the transactions. the error rate in the legality and regularity of transactions is above the threshold and this has been the court's objection for the third year running. the final report shall also invite the joint undertaking to develop an action plan with clear and concrete measures and deadlines to avoid conflicts of interest and to strengthen transparency. present this report to the discharge authority. it also recommends that a full and adequate financial evaluation of the rights and obligations of the joint undertakings be carried out. the european people's party supported the granting of the joint undertaking's exemption in the plenary vote, as a result of the swift and effective action taken to address the identified deficiencies and the action plan adopted.
in writing. ‒ following the presentation of the annual report of the european court of auditors for the financial year 2013, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out, in the context of the closure of the accounts procedure for 2013, a financial audit of the general budget of the european union concerning the joint undertaking for research on innovative medicines. the court found the institute's annual accounts to be reliable, but it could not find sufficient and appropriate audit evidence as to the legality and regularity of the transactions. the error rate in the legality and regularity of transactions is above the threshold and this has been the court's objection for the third year running. the final report shall also invite the joint undertaking to develop an action plan with clear and concrete measures and deadlines to avoid conflicts of interest and to strengthen transparency. present this report to the discharge authority. it also recommends that a full and adequate financial evaluation of the rights and obligations of the joint undertakings be carried out. i voted in favour of granting the joint undertaking an exemption as a result of the swift and effective response to the identified deficiencies and the action plan adopted, in line with the guidelines of the european people's party.
in writing. ‒ the european court of auditors has prepared its annual report for the financial year 2013, which was presented to the european parliament's plenary and then to the committee on budgetary control. following the presentation of the report, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out a financial audit of the general budget of the european union concerning the implementation of the budgets of the agencies and offices in the context of the closure of accounts procedure for the financial year 2013. the committee's primary task is to ensure and monitor the proper and efficient implementation of the community budget. the final report on the annual accounts of the european union agencies and offices for the financial year 2012 concludes that the financial controls were carried out in an orderly manner and that the audit found no deficiencies. the problems highlighted in the report and to be addressed by the agencies include the need to increase transparency in public procurement procedures, to make the conflict of interest procedure more effective and to further strengthen internal control systems. at its march meeting, the cont committee decided to accept the report and to close the accounts of that authority for 2013. i supported the adoption of the report in the committee vote and in the plenary vote on 29 april.
in writing. ‒ following the presentation of the annual report of the european court of auditors for the financial year 2013, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out a financial audit of the general budget of the european union concerning the fusion energy development and iter european joint undertaking in the framework of the 2013 closure procedure. the court of auditors' report states that it has not been able to find sufficient and appropriate audit evidence as regards the legality and regularity of the transactions of the joint undertaking. the exemption report shows that the joint undertaking's letter of intent also reports a significant increase in risk. it also expressed concerns that the joint undertaking did not have a system in place to monitor cost fluctuations on a regular basis, did not have detailed financial statements, and did not have an approved staff policy. it asks to submit a report to the discharge authority on the payments made by the members and similarly on the current level of implementation of the projects, any risks, future developments. although significant progress has been made in the internal control system, a number of measures still need to be implemented in this area. the european people's party supported the granting of the joint undertaking's exemption in the plenary vote, as a result of the swift and effective action taken to address the identified deficiencies and the action plan adopted.
in writing. ‒ following the presentation of the annual report of the european court of auditors for the financial year 2013, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out a financial audit of the general budget of the european union concerning the fusion energy development and iter european joint undertaking in the framework of the 2013 closure procedure. the court of auditors' report states that it has not been able to find sufficient and appropriate audit evidence as regards the legality and regularity of the transactions of the joint undertaking. the exemption report shows that the joint undertaking's letter of intent also reports a significant increase in risk. it also expressed concerns that the joint undertaking did not have a system in place to monitor cost fluctuations on a regular basis, did not have detailed financial statements, and did not have an approved staff policy. it asks to submit a report to the discharge authority on the payments made by the members and similarly on the current level of implementation of the projects, any risks, future developments. although significant progress has been made in the internal control system, a number of measures still need to be implemented in this area. i voted in favour of granting the joint undertaking the discharge in accordance with the line of the european people's party, as a result of the swift and effective action taken to address the identified deficiencies and the action plan adopted.
in writing. ‒ the european court of auditors has prepared its annual report for the financial year 2013, which was presented to the european parliament's plenary and then to the committee on budgetary control. following the presentation of the report, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out a financial audit of the general budget of the european union concerning the implementation of the budgets of the agencies and offices in the context of the closure of accounts procedure for the financial year 2013. the committee's primary task is to ensure and monitor the proper and efficient implementation of the community budget. the final report on the annual accounts of the european union agencies and offices for the financial year 2012 concludes that the financial controls were carried out in an orderly manner and that the audit found no deficiencies. the problems highlighted in the report and to be addressed by the agencies include the need to increase transparency in public procurement procedures, to make the conflict of interest procedure more effective and to further strengthen internal control systems. at its march meeting, the cont committee decided to accept the report and to close the accounts of that authority for 2013. i supported the adoption of the report in the committee vote and in the plenary vote on 29 april.
in writing. ‒ following the presentation by the european court of auditors of its annual report for the financial year 2013, the committee on budgetary control carried out a financial audit of the general budget of the european union for the sesar joint undertaking in the context of the closure of the accounts procedure for 2013. the court of auditors has found the annual accounts of the sesar joint undertaking for the financial year 2013 to be reliable and the underlying financial transactions to be legal and regular in all material respects. highlights the essential role of the joint undertaking in coordinating and implementing research in the context of the sesar project. notes with concern that the joint undertaking's annual activity report for the financial year 2012 was published in the official journal of the european union on 29 september 2012; the final audit report concludes that the financial and regularity reviews of the joint undertaking have not revealed any serious deficiencies. the committee decided at its meeting at the end of march to grant the discharge and to close the 2013 accounts. i voted in committee and in plenary to grant the discharge.
in writing. ‒ in line with the european people's party's line, i voted in favour of granting a budgetary discharge to the sesar joint undertaking. it is of the utmost importance that the sesar joint undertaking manages those resources responsibly. the sesar joint undertaking should therefore take due account of any observations and suggestions made by the european court of auditors. we want the eu institutions to manage the resources entrusted to them responsibly. they should set an example to the eu member states in the area of responsible budgetary management.
in writing. ‒ the european court of auditors has prepared its annual report for the financial year 2013, which was presented to the european parliament's plenary and then to the committee on budgetary control. following the presentation of the report, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out a financial audit of the general budget of the european union concerning the implementation of the budgets of the agencies and offices in the context of the closure of accounts procedure for the financial year 2013. the committee's primary task is to ensure and monitor the proper and efficient implementation of the community budget. the final report on the annual accounts of the european union agencies and offices for the financial year 2012 concludes that the financial controls were carried out in an orderly manner and that the audit found no deficiencies. the problems highlighted in the report and to be addressed by the agencies include the need to increase transparency in public procurement procedures, to make the conflict of interest procedure more effective and to further strengthen internal control systems. at its march meeting, the cont committee decided to accept the report and to close the accounts of that authority for 2013. i supported the adoption of the report in the committee vote and in the plenary vote on 29 april.
in writing. ‒ the opinion of the transport committee has been fully incorporated in the discharge report. based on the data contained in the exemption, the report highlights the effective functioning of the agency and its key role in coordinating and implementing research under the sesar project, which is a pillar of the single european sky. i voted for the 2013 discharge.
in writing. ‒ as long as money fulfilled its original functions of facilitating the exchange of goods, mediating value and preserving it, there could be no problems. since it has been used for speculative purposes, it has caused enormous economic and social problems and conflicts. the proposal is another attempt to curb the financial liberalisation implemented during the 1990s, but it is doomed to failure from the outset, since these investment funds also serve financial speculation. i didn't vote for him because of his weakness. a real result would have been achieved by regulations similar to the glass-steagall act of 1933, significantly restricting the scope for financial speculation, including effectively separating commercial banking from investment banking.
in writing. ‒ in line with the european people's party's line, i voted in favour of the adoption of a draft law on the import of textile products from certain third countries not subject to eu import regulations. this is an apparently technical amendment which brings the existing comitology procedure into line with the treaty of lisbon. accordingly, powers should be conferred on the commission either for the traditional comitology procedure and thus for decision-making in the member states or for commission legislation with strong council and parliamentary control. in this connection, i am opposed to any attempt to treat the legislation to be amended in a uniform manner (the so-called omnibus approach). most of the delegations are not only technical issues, many of them also have a significant political dimension. therefore, the legislation to be amended and the powers contained therein should be examined and decided on a case-by-case basis. because of the political implications, this cannot be ignored.
in writing. ‒ in recent years, the eu has only had bilateral textile trade agreements with russia and serbia. with the accession of russia to the wto and the entry into force of the stabilisation and association agreement with serbia, that council regulation has lost its meaning.
in writing. ‒ at its meeting on 9 february 2015, the bureau adopted the guidelines proposed by the secretary-general for the 2016 budget. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's macro-financial assistance to the countries of central and eastern europe, including the countries of the former soviet union, and will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's macro-financial assistance to the countries of central and eastern europe. the member states are currently facing heavy burdens of public debt and financial consolidation, and parliament should pursue a responsible budgetary policy and exercise restraint in this regard. at the same time, it is necessary to ensure that sufficient resources are made available to the new parliament to enable it to exercise its powers and to ensure the proper functioning of the institution.
in writing. ‒ at its meeting on 9 february 2015, the bureau adopted the guidelines proposed by the secretary-general for the 2016 budget. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's macro-financial assistance to the countries of central and eastern europe, including the countries of the former soviet union, and will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's macro-financial assistance to the countries of central and eastern europe. the member states are currently facing heavy burdens of public debt and financial consolidation, and parliament should pursue a responsible budgetary policy and exercise restraint in this regard. at the same time, it is necessary to ensure that sufficient resources are made available to the new parliament to enable it to exercise its powers and to ensure the proper functioning of the institution. the fidesz-kdnp delegation supports the adoption of the report in line with the position of the people's party.
in writing. ‒ at its meeting on 9 february 2015, the bureau adopted the guidelines proposed by the secretary-general for the 2016 budget. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's macro-financial assistance to the countries of central and eastern europe, including the countries of the former soviet union, and will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's macro-financial assistance to the countries of central and eastern europe. the member states are currently facing heavy burdens of public debt and financial consolidation, and parliament should pursue a responsible budgetary policy and exercise restraint in this regard. at the same time, it is necessary to ensure that sufficient resources are made available to the new parliament to enable it to exercise its powers and to ensure the proper functioning of the institution. i supported the adoption of the report in line with the position of the european people's party.
in writing. ‒ at its meeting on 9 february 2015, the bureau adopted the guidelines proposed by the secretary-general for the 2016 budget. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's macro-financial assistance to the countries of central and eastern europe, including the countries of the former soviet union, and will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's macro-financial assistance to the countries of central and eastern europe. the member states are currently facing heavy burdens of public debt and financial consolidation, and parliament should pursue a responsible budgetary policy and exercise restraint in this regard. at the same time, it is necessary to ensure that sufficient resources are made available to the new parliament to enable it to exercise its powers and to ensure the proper functioning of the institution. the fidesz-kdnp delegation supports the adoption of the report in line with the position of the people's party.
in writing. ‒ at its meeting on 9 february 2015, the bureau adopted the guidelines proposed by the secretary-general for the 2016 budget. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's macro-financial assistance to the countries of central and eastern europe, including the countries of the former soviet union, and will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's macro-financial assistance to the countries of central and eastern europe. the member states are currently facing heavy burdens of public debt and financial consolidation, and parliament should pursue a responsible budgetary policy and exercise restraint in this regard. at the same time, it is necessary to ensure that sufficient resources are made available to the new parliament to enable it to exercise its powers and to ensure the proper functioning of the institution. the fidesz-kdnp delegation supports the adoption of the report in line with the position of the people's party.
in writing. ‒ at its meeting on 9 february 2015, the bureau adopted the guidelines proposed by the secretary-general for the 2016 budget. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's macro-financial assistance to the countries of central and eastern europe, including the countries of the former soviet union, and will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's macro-financial assistance to the countries of central and eastern europe. the member states are currently facing heavy burdens of public debt and financial consolidation, and parliament should pursue a responsible budgetary policy and exercise restraint in this regard. at the same time, it is necessary to ensure that sufficient resources are made available to the new parliament to enable it to exercise its powers and to ensure the proper functioning of the institution. as a member of the fidesz-kdnp delegation, i support the adoption of the report in line with the pp's position.
in writing. ‒ at its meeting on 9 february 2015, the bureau adopted the guidelines proposed by the secretary-general for the 2016 budget. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's macro-financial assistance to the countries of central and eastern europe, including the countries of the former soviet union, and will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's macro-financial assistance to the countries of central and eastern europe. the member states are currently facing heavy burdens of public debt and financial consolidation, and parliament should pursue a responsible budgetary policy and exercise restraint in this regard. at the same time, it is necessary to ensure that sufficient resources are made available to the new parliament to enable it to exercise its powers and to ensure the proper functioning of the institution. the fidesz-kdnp delegation supports the adoption of the report in line with the position of the people's party.
in writing. ‒ the proposal concerns the revenue and expenditure appropriations for the operation of the european parliament for the financial year 2016. the report of the committee on budgets, taking into account the priorities proposed by the secretary-general for 2016, the significant additional expenditure on parliament following the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon, and the political priorities adopted by parliament in the last legislative period, concludes that the increase in parliament's current expenditure in 2016 compared to 2015 should not exceed 2%. further increases in expenditure can only be justified by the need to strengthen the security of parliament's buildings and it systems. in view of all this, it proposes that the motion be adopted. i have voted in favour of the motion accordingly.
in writing. ‒ i supported the motion for a resolution on budgetary issues relating to the increased workload of the ep for 2016. the presentation focuses on security issues, including building security and information security.
i voted against the report on the establishment of the european public prosecutor's office. as a hungarian mp, i did not do this merely out of personal conviction, as the hungarian parliament adopted a resolution on the draft regulation establishing the european public prosecutor's office in october 2013. in this regard, it found that this was contrary to the principle of subsidiarity. the eppo should be able to provide the necessary legal advice to the national authorities in the member states, in particular to the national authorities responsible for the prosecution of serious criminal offences. and he also found that it extends beyond the law of our basic law on the functioning of the european union. by the way, yesterday in this debate, you talked about this function as the european public prosecutor. it should be noted that, as many would like, there is no single european state yet, and many of us are here to prevent that!
in writing. ‒ efficient and decisive action is needed to combat misuse, fraud and crime of eu funds. however, i abstained as a member of the hungarian people's party delegation from the vote on the interim report on the establishment of the european public prosecutor's office, as this report does not take into account the objections of the national parliaments, including the hungarian parliament, to subsidiarity and sovereignty (yellow-ground procedure). this right, granted by the treaty of lisbon, has been exhausted, since the commission has not taken any account of the objections raised by the national parliaments in relation to the eppo. the unresolved issues of subsidiarity and national sovereignty remain unresolved. the commission has also taken into account the fact that the national prosecutors' offices are not obliged to provide information to the public. the issues of jurisdiction are not clear. thus, while fully agreeing with the aim of taking effective action against those who commit crimes against the financial interests of the union, because of the many unresolved issues in the current interim report and because the national parliaments' concerns were ignored in the process, i could not support the report.
in writing. ‒ as a member of the hungarian people's party delegation, i share the common view that effective and decisive action is needed to combat the misuse, fraud and crime of eu funds. however, i abstained from the vote on the interim report on the establishment of the european public prosecutor's office, as this report does not take into account the objections of the national parliaments, including the hungarian parliament, to subsidiarity and sovereignty (the yellow-ground procedure). this right, granted by the treaty of lisbon, has been exhausted, since the commission has not taken any account of the objections raised by the national parliaments in relation to the eppo. the unresolved issues of subsidiarity and national sovereignty remain unresolved. the commission has also taken into account the fact that the national prosecutors' offices are not obliged to provide information to the public. the issues of jurisdiction are not clear. thus, while fully agreeing with the aim of taking effective action against those who commit crimes against the financial interests of the union, because of the many unresolved issues in the current interim report and because the national parliaments' concerns were ignored in the process, i could not support the report.
in writing. ‒ efficient and decisive action is needed to combat misuse, fraud and crime of eu funds. however, i abstained as a member of the hungarian people's party delegation at the vote on the interim session on the establishment of the european public prosecutor's office, as this report does not take into account the objections of the national parliaments, including the hungarian parliament, to subsidiarity and sovereignty (yellow-ground procedure). this right, granted by the treaty of lisbon, has been exhausted, since the commission has not taken any account of the objections raised by the national parliaments in relation to the eppo. the unresolved issues of subsidiarity and national sovereignty remain unresolved. the commission has also taken into account the fact that the national prosecutors' offices are not obliged to provide information to the public. the issues of jurisdiction are not clear. thus, while fully agreeing with the aim of taking effective action against those who commit crimes against the financial interests of the union, because of the many unresolved issues in the current interim report and because the national parliaments' concerns were ignored in the process, i could not support the report.
in writing. ‒ efficient and decisive action is needed to combat misuse, fraud and crime of eu funds. however, i abstained as a member of the hungarian people's party delegation at the vote on the interim session on the establishment of the european public prosecutor's office, as this report does not take into account the objections of the national parliaments, including the hungarian parliament, to subsidiarity and sovereignty (yellow-ground procedure). this right, granted by the treaty of lisbon, has been exhausted, since the commission has not taken any account of the objections raised by the national parliaments in relation to the eppo. the unresolved issues of subsidiarity and national sovereignty remain unresolved. the commission has also taken into account the fact that the national prosecutors' offices are not obliged to provide information to the public. the issues of jurisdiction are not clear. thus, while fully agreeing with the aim of taking effective action against those who commit crimes against the financial interests of the union, because of the many unresolved issues in the current interim report and because the national parliaments' concerns were ignored in the process, i could not support the report.
in writing. ‒ efficient and decisive action is needed to combat misuse, fraud and crime of eu funds. however, i abstained as a member of the hungarian people's party delegation at the vote on the interim session on the establishment of the european public prosecutor's office, as this report does not take into account the objections of the national parliaments, including the hungarian parliament, to subsidiarity and sovereignty (yellow-ground procedure). this right, granted by the treaty of lisbon, has been exhausted, since the commission has not taken any account of the objections raised by the national parliaments in relation to the eppo. the unresolved issues of subsidiarity and national sovereignty remain unresolved. the commission has also taken into account the fact that the national prosecutors' offices are not obliged to provide information to the public. the issues of jurisdiction are not clear. thus, while fully agreeing with the aim of taking effective action against those who commit crimes against the financial interests of the union, because of the many unresolved issues in the current interim report and because the national parliaments' concerns were ignored in the process, i could not support the report.
in writing. ‒ efficient and decisive action is needed to combat misuse, fraud and crime of eu funds. however, i abstained as a member of the hungarian people's party delegation at the vote on the interim session on the establishment of the european public prosecutor's office, as this report does not take into account the objections of the national parliaments, including the hungarian parliament, to subsidiarity and sovereignty (yellow-ground procedure). this right, granted by the treaty of lisbon, has been exhausted, since the commission has not taken any account of the objections raised by the national parliaments in relation to the eppo. the unresolved issues of subsidiarity and national sovereignty remain unresolved. the commission has also taken into account the fact that the national prosecutors' offices are not obliged to provide information to the public. the issues of jurisdiction are not clear. thus, while fully agreeing with the aim of taking effective action against those who commit crimes against the financial interests of the union, because of the many unresolved issues in the current interim report and because the national parliaments' concerns were ignored in the process, i could not support the report.
in writing. ‒ efficient and decisive action is needed to combat misuse, fraud and crime of eu funds. however, i abstained as a member of the hungarian people's party delegation at the vote on the interim session on the establishment of the european public prosecutor's office, as this report does not take into account the objections of the national parliaments, including the hungarian parliament, to subsidiarity and sovereignty (yellow-ground procedure). this right, granted by the treaty of lisbon, has been exhausted, since the commission has not taken any account of the objections raised by the national parliaments in relation to the eppo. the unresolved issues of subsidiarity and national sovereignty remain unresolved. the commission has also taken into account the fact that the national prosecutors' offices are not obliged to provide information to the public. the issues of jurisdiction are not clear. thus, while fully agreeing with the aim of taking effective action against those who commit crimes against the financial interests of the union, because of the many unresolved issues in the current interim report and because the national parliaments' concerns were ignored in the process, i could not support the report.
in writing. ‒ efficient and decisive action is needed to combat misuse, fraud and crime of eu funds. however, i abstained as a member of the hungarian people's party delegation at the vote on the interim session on the establishment of the european public prosecutor's office, as this report does not take into account the objections of the national parliaments, including the hungarian parliament, to subsidiarity and sovereignty (yellow-ground procedure). this right, granted by the treaty of lisbon, has been exhausted, since the commission has not taken any account of the objections raised by the national parliaments in relation to the eppo. the unresolved issues of subsidiarity and national sovereignty remain unresolved. the commission has also taken into account the fact that the national prosecutors' offices are not obliged to provide information to the public. the issues of jurisdiction are not clear. thus, while fully agreeing with the aim of taking effective action against those who commit crimes against the financial interests of the union, because of the many unresolved issues in the current interim report and because the national parliaments' concerns were ignored in the process, i could not support the report.
in writing. ‒ my abstention in this vote was justified because project of a european prosecutor raises unresolved issues of subsidiarity and member state sovereignty.
in writing. ‒ when the position of the hungarian fidesz-kdnp delegation differs from the position of the people's party, in order not to be in contradiction with my duty as vice-president, in cases where the faction votes differently from the hungarian representatives during the roll-call voting, i will not participate in the vote directly. i do not press the ballot button, but i do raise my hand to indicate to the pp group the voting position that we had previously agreed on.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the adoption of the report and, therefore, of the ideas for the establishment of the european public prosecutor's office and the legal and political framework for its operation. the report highlights an important link when it emphasises that less effective action by the authorities against fraud in individual member states is a loss for the community as a whole and must therefore be addressed at european level. in considering this question, i also took into account the regrettable experience of some member states where corruption, tax, procurement, tendering and other fraud now systematically reaches the levels of government - including those who oversee the prosecution service - and so should act against themselves. i believe that the eppo can also be a useful tool to make the fight against government-committed/covered abuses more effective. however, i regard the framework set out in the report as a first step and consider it necessary to strengthen the independence of the eppo from member states in the future, to define fraud affecting the eu's financial interests and thus to significantly expand the competence of the organisation. i also agree with the need for the ep to be more actively involved in the legislation and control of the eppo, given that the ep has an important political role to play in making the eppo a truly european institution with competence and a european dimension.
in writing. ‒ examples from member states show that prosecutors are subject to political pressure. politically motivated corruption and the unacceptable interconnection of politics and economics are serious problems. i fully support the creation of an independent european public prosecutor's office, which operates independently of the governments of the member states.
ladies and gentlemen! this is a very serious situation and we need to put aside all ideological debate. it's not that there's no room for ideological debate, but that the mass slaughter of students and staff at garissa university is another, truly shocking, sign of the brutality of extremist islam. innocent, they were killed by the militants of the terrorist group al-shabaab for one reason: their christianity. i'm trying to understand you people who are trying to put this into perspective. you must understand the persecuted. it is possible to speak of all, but the christian minorities, the christian diasporas, all over the world, look to europe. they are counting on us here in the european parliament to be able to act in their interests as a united front. we haven't been able to do that. they are in immediate danger of death! this is not an ideological issue, it's a human rights issue. it's not a religious issue, it's a human rights issue. we cannot reject, we cannot reject any persecuted because we don't like them for some reason or because they are persecuting others. i would like to draw your attention, as one of the authors of the resolution, to the fact that you are in solidarity with persecuted christians! as the text of the resolutions states, the persecution of christians is a specific phenomenon today, and christianity has become the most persecuted religion in the world today. europe is part of secularism, part of - thank you very much, just one sentence - secularism, secularism, but the european union can never, never support a secular caliphate!
madam president, with our resolution today we jointly condemn the persecution and attacks on christians around the world, including the brutal killing of students in kenya. in the same spirit we have to stay united towards all violations of freedom of religion and belief, because it is a fundamental right. europe’s christian roots demand that we remain responsible towards christians around the world. christians remain by far the most persecuted religious group globally. al—shabaab has been openly and publicly claiming to wage a war against christians. building on today’s christian consensus, let us ensure that the issue of the persecution of christians remains the eu priority in this house, in the eeas and in our member states. the protection of human dignity and lives is our duty.
motions for resolutions to be tabled in accordance with rule 128 (5) of the rules of procedure shall be announced at a later date. i'll close this discussion. the vote will take place on thursday 30 april 2015. the commission shall be assisted by the committee established by article 15 of regulation (eu) no 182/2011.
the next item is the statement by the vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy the situation in the maldives (2015/2662(rsp))
motions for resolutions to be tabled in accordance with rule 128 (5) of the rules of procedure shall be announced at a later date. i'll close this discussion. the vote will take place on thursday 30 april 2015.
the following point is inserted after point 2 of annex i to the eea agreement:
on behalf of the verts/ale group.– madam president, i want to congratulate and thank our rapporteur who through hard, competent and patient work was able to produce a highly balanced and thoughtful report. i am glad to agree with many colleagues of mine who have spoken before me who emphasised the steady progress albania has made in the last couple of years on the road towards accession. let me assure our albanian friends that we are fully aware that this road is far from being easy; it is a challenging task. but at the same time i am almost entirely certain that within a reasonable period of time albania will succeed in reaching the end of that road. no doubt there is a lot to do: capacity building in public administration, a consistent anti-corruption policy with steady implementation, and working out a consistent energy strategy with due emphasis on renewables. the tasks are not dissimilar to those of other countries in the region. that is one of the reasons, and certainly not the only reason, why we believe that regional cooperation is a must both for albania and for other countries of this vibrant part of the world. in conclusion, allow me to issue a word of warning. in our process of accession and in the negotiations, we should not adopt a tone of condescension. we are not a charity organisation giving out free money without benefit to us. the accession of the western balkans is beneficial to both the european union and to the countries of the region.
albania was one of the darkest and last dictatorships of the collapsed communist bloc. in the context of political restoration, building democracy means for him the dismantling of his own withdrawn communist past. like other countries in the region, it must continually fight the forces of the former communist nomenclature and the secret services that are returning to power, which operate an extensive network of corruption. we must support the forces of democracy in this fight. i am pleased that the report places particular emphasis on the protection of traditional minority communities. this is obviously a stability issue in the balkans and in east-central europe. in addition to ensuring the fundamental rights and equal opportunities of ethnic, linguistic and religious minorities, we must support them and, with them, civil society as a whole, through access to eu funds. the report calls for albania to adopt a minority law. i would point out that many member states and the union itself are still in debt to this day, and let us not forget that all the western-backed plans to resolve the crisis in yugoslavia are based on a system of ethnic and regional autonomy.
listening to this debate today, i think we all feel that there has been a lot of progress in albania. we are entitled to make a lot of criticisms, but it is important to note at this point that this debate today is also likely to help albania to maintain the prospects it has set itself as a candidate country. of course, whenever we express praise, criticism or, god forbid, tasks on behalf of the european union, we must also realise that we have a role to play within the european union. the same things that we are now saying about albania are increasingly coming to the fore in the countries of the european union today. and i think that just today, when the words of the hungarian prime minister were condemned by many politicians, in which he wanted to restore the death penalty, well, these are the real testimonies.
it's a two-card draw. i'm speaking to you as the person in charge of this report, and i really want to congratulate you on this job. although what you have just said, it was not as clear to me as the written version, that in this country, bosnia and herzegovina, this process has stopped, and even a little bit backwards. how would you describe this process?
my colleagues! i believe that the european commission has not done its homework in the light of the answer to my earlier question on the marrakesh agreement. in the past year, no document has been produced that would have reassuringly addressed the problems or implementation obstacles that may arise in the future, which are the subject of this debate. i do not understand, from the statements of the council and the commission, what the real obstacle is. why is there no progress? why is there no document that states in advance what and how they intend to arrange for swift implementation? based on which necessary decisions can be made quickly. i sincerely hope that this clustering does not mean that the european commission is in favour of the use not going towards free use. the whole issue should not be treated as a commercial, political issue. no, you can't. this is about the non-profit organizations that are involved in the use of the publications. i ask the council and the commission, on behalf of the visually impaired, to do this as soon as possible and to have a tangible result as soon as possible.
it's a two-card draw. i think, and i think i am not alone, that the bank has a good place in its activities in terms of focusing on a range of projects to tackle youth unemployment. but the honourable member mentioned that there are very, very big geographical differences. typically, what does this mean (in use)? do the richer or poorer countries benefit from the youth guarantee?
in writing. the european union is facing difficult economic conditions, with rising unemployment, which has serious consequences for our societies, especially for young people. the extraordinary times clearly call for extraordinary measures, for a coherent european response to overcome the crisis. as the european union's bank, the eib should play a key role in financing investment for growth and jobs. the eib has always responded to the specific needs of the regions most affected by the crisis and its report welcomes its intention to continue to do so. in many cases, this bank is the only financier that can play this role to a significant extent. i am positive that as an eu bank, it has focused on its countercyclical role and behaved as a reliable partner in economically sound investments both inside and outside the european union. i agree with the rapporteur that the investments they finance can make a real difference to people's lives, whether it is the jobs provided to hundreds of thousands of small businesses that ensure the progress of infrastructure investments in the regions most affected by the crisis, or the cutting-edge innovations that help maintain europe's global competitiveness and the continued support for clean energy, and i will therefore support the constructive proposals in the report in tomorrow's vote.
it's a two-card draw. mr. deputy, you have praised the choice of subject, and i would like to commend our italian colleagues, especially mr castro, who is a great driver of this cause here in this house. but in this same house, we also find that having equitable access to food is greatly hampered by the huge amount of taxes that go into food. we also deal with the fact that corporations don't pay taxes. i ask you, do you agree that governments should properly collect taxes from large corporations and thereby reduce the burden on food?
i have received a motion for a resolution tabled in accordance with rule 128 (5). i'll close this discussion. the vote will take place on thursday 30 april 2015 at 12 noon. the commission shall be assisted by the committee established by article 15 of regulation (eu) no 182/2011.
the next item is the debate on the question for an oral answer on the outbreak of xylella fastidiosa in olive trees, tabled by mr czesław adam siekierski on behalf of the committee on agriculture and rural development (o-000038/2015 b8-0117/2015 (2015/2652(rsp)).
i'll close this discussion. the vote will take place at the next plenary session. i thank my fellow members for their disciplined behavior regarding the time frame. and given that we have less than 12 hours and four minutes until the vote, i'm going to adjourn until the vote. the commission shall be assisted by the committee established by article 15 of regulation (eu) no 182/2011.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the proposal put forward by the political forces represented in the ep, including the s&d group.
in writing. ‒ in my view, given that alcoholism is a serious health and social problem in several member states, including hungary, and that data on the drinking habits of young people are particularly worrying, it is necessary to create a european strategy to support prevention and informed decision-making.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the european parliament resolution on the alcohol strategy, as i agree that we need to tackle excessive alcohol consumption at eu level. as we know, a significant proportion of preventable deaths and diseases in europe are attributable to this and the previous eu strategy to mitigate alcohol-related harm expired in 2012. the socialists and democrats group was also actively involved in the drafting of the draft and its proposals were successfully incorporated. in my view, the resolution is not intended to make the sector unviable, since this would also mean the loss of jobs, for example, in the case of local products. moreover, in this respect, the resolution also takes into account local cultural traditions. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'common carrier' to cover the transport of dangerous goods by road. the strategy is also of particular importance because it allows member states to coordinate their monitoring and data collection practices in relation to alcohol consumption, and to encourage prevention, health protection, early diagnosis and better access to treatment. i believe that the elements of the strategy do not represent a burden for producers, but that we can take important steps to achieve responsible drinking.
in writing. ‒ the adopted decision details the achievements to date on the second anniversary of the rana plaza collapse and the progress made under the bangladesh sustainability pact. it's important that tragedies like this can be avoided in the future. i voted for the resolution.
in writing. ‒ saving lives in an emergency is our moral duty. at the same time, we have a responsibility within the union to prevent or prevent more and more people from being put at the crossroads of life and death. we must therefore take decisive action against the networks of human traffickers, and we must do everything we can to prevent thousands of people from taking such risky journeys. hungary has seen a 20-fold increase in the number of illegal immigrants this year, and we are the fifth most affected member state. people are employed in immigration policy to differentiate between genuine refugees and illegal immigrants for a living. the eu urgently needs a solidarity mechanism to tackle the problem, but a system of mandatory quotas imposed centrally, without following local problems and without taking into account local characteristics, is not a solution to the increasingly serious situation. i therefore abstained from voting on the resolution.
in writing. ‒ as a member of the fidesz-kdnp delegation, i share the common position that saving human life in an emergency is our moral duty. at the same time, we have a responsibility within the union to prevent or prevent more and more people from being put at the crossroads of life and death. we must therefore take decisive action against the networks of human traffickers, and we must do everything we can to prevent thousands of people from taking such risky journeys. hungary has seen a 20-fold increase in the number of illegal immigrants this year, and we are the fifth most affected member state. people are employed in immigration policy to differentiate between genuine refugees and illegal immigrants for a living. the eu urgently needs a solidarity mechanism to tackle the problem, but a system of mandatory quotas imposed centrally, without following local problems and without taking into account local characteristics, is not a solution to the increasingly serious situation. i therefore abstained from voting on the resolution.
in writing. ‒ saving lives in an emergency is our moral duty. at the same time, we have a responsibility within the union to prevent or prevent more and more people from being put at the crossroads of life and death. we must therefore take decisive action against the networks of human traffickers, and we must do everything we can to prevent thousands of people from taking such risky journeys. hungary has seen a 20-fold increase in the number of illegal immigrants this year, and we are the fifth most affected member state. people are employed in immigration policy to differentiate between genuine refugees and illegal immigrants for a living. the eu urgently needs a solidarity mechanism to tackle the problem, but a system of mandatory quotas imposed centrally, without following local problems and without taking into account local characteristics, is not a solution to the increasingly serious situation. i therefore abstained from voting on the resolution.
in writing. ‒ saving lives in an emergency is our moral duty. at the same time, we have a responsibility within the union to prevent or prevent more and more people from being put at the crossroads of life and death. we must therefore take decisive action against the networks of human traffickers, and we must do everything we can to prevent thousands of people from taking such risky journeys. hungary has seen a 20-fold increase in the number of illegal immigrants this year, and we are the fifth most affected member state. people are employed in immigration policy to differentiate between genuine refugees and illegal immigrants for a living. the eu urgently needs a solidarity mechanism to tackle the problem, but a system of mandatory quotas imposed centrally, without following local problems and without taking into account local characteristics, is not a solution to the increasingly serious situation. i therefore abstained from voting on the resolution.
in writing. ‒ saving lives in an emergency is our moral duty. at the same time, we have a responsibility within the union to prevent or prevent more and more people from being put at the crossroads of life and death. we must therefore take decisive action against the networks of human traffickers, and we must do everything we can to prevent thousands of people from taking such risky journeys. hungary has seen a 20-fold increase in the number of illegal immigrants this year, and we are the fifth most affected member state. people are employed in immigration policy to differentiate between genuine refugees and illegal immigrants for a living. the eu urgently needs a solidarity mechanism to tackle the problem, but a system of mandatory quotas imposed centrally, without following local problems and without taking into account local characteristics, is not a solution to the increasingly serious situation. i therefore abstained from voting on the resolution.
in writing. ‒ saving lives in an emergency is our moral duty. at the same time, we have a responsibility within the union to prevent or prevent more and more people from being put at the crossroads of life and death. we must therefore take decisive action against the networks of human traffickers, and we must do everything we can to prevent thousands of people from taking such risky journeys. hungary has seen a 20-fold increase in the number of illegal immigrants this year, and we are the fifth most affected member state. people are employed in immigration policy to differentiate between genuine refugees and illegal immigrants for a living. the eu urgently needs a solidarity mechanism to tackle the problem, but a system of mandatory quotas imposed centrally, without following local problems and without taking into account local characteristics, is not a solution to the increasingly serious situation. i therefore abstained from voting on the resolution.
in writing. ‒ saving lives in an emergency is our moral duty. at the same time, we have a responsibility within the union to prevent or prevent more and more people from being put at the crossroads of life and death. we must therefore take decisive action against the networks of human traffickers, and we must do everything we can to prevent thousands of people from taking such risky journeys. hungary has seen a 20-fold increase in the number of illegal immigrants this year, and we are the fifth most affected member state. people are employed in immigration policy to differentiate between genuine refugees and illegal immigrants for a living. the eu urgently needs a solidarity mechanism to tackle the problem, but a system of mandatory quotas imposed centrally, without following local problems and without taking into account local characteristics, is not a solution to the increasingly serious situation. as a member of the fidesz-kdnp parliamentary group, i abstained from voting on the resolution.
in writing. ‒ saving lives in an emergency is our moral duty. at the same time, we have a responsibility within the union to prevent or prevent more and more people from being put at the crossroads of life and death. we must therefore take decisive action against the networks of human traffickers, and we must do everything we can to prevent thousands of people from taking such risky journeys. hungary has seen a 20-fold increase in the number of illegal immigrants this year, and we are the fifth most affected member state. people are employed in immigration policy to differentiate between genuine refugees and illegal immigrants for a living. the eu urgently needs a solidarity mechanism to tackle the problem, but a system of mandatory quotas imposed centrally, without following local problems and without taking into account local characteristics, is not a solution to the increasingly serious situation. i therefore abstained from voting on the resolution.
in writing. ‒ in the absence of a common eu immigration policy, the mediterranean sea has become the world's largest mass grave in recent months. europe must accept the fact that refugees crossing the mediterranean on boats will continue to travel even if we send warships to the libyan coast, and risk their lives even if europe reduces the number of ships deployed to rescue them. as one recent survivor put it, "i would go if the whole ocean was electrified". where there's war, anarchy, poverty, people run away because the instinct to survive is stronger than anything else. the eu can continue to watch with interest as the mediterranean becomes a single cemetery of infection, or it can act like a nobel peace prize-winning, sober superpower, restoring its rescue capacity and giving refugees the opportunity to make their claim legally. the hungarian prime minister turns his back on this when he makes such morally unacceptable statements that europe does not need immigrants. the memory of the thousands who drowned at sea is being violated by the hungarian prime minister when, in response to the humanitarian disaster, he launches a national consultation on the detention, immediate deportation and processing of migrants to reimburse their costs of stay. we must not fight against illegal immigrants, but against the causes of illegal immigration. it would be good if the hungarian prime minister could see this and stop his declining popularity by not scapegoating, by demonizing immigrants.
in writing. ‒ when the position of the hungarian fidesz-kdnp delegation differs from the position of the people's party, in order not to be in contradiction with my duty as vice-president, in cases where the faction votes differently from the hungarian representatives during the roll-call voting, i will not participate in the vote directly. i do not press the ballot button, but i do raise my hand to indicate to the pp group the voting position that we had previously agreed on.
in writing. ‒ the commission has proposed to amend council regulation (ec) no 1215/2009 introducing exceptional trade measures for countries and territories participating in or linked to the european union's stabilisation and association process. the proposal would: extend the current benefits until the end of 2020 in order to allow time for beneficiary countries to align the benefits under the basic regulation with those under the stabilisation and association agreements and the interim agreements; supplement the regulation with a human rights clause allowing for the suspension of benefits in the event of a serious and systematic violation by any beneficiary country of the principles of human rights, democracy and the rule of law; suspend the application of the regulation to bosnia and herzegovina from 1 january 2016, as bosnia and herzegovina has not contributed to the interim agreement on the liberalisation of trade between it and the eu taking into account the accession of croatia to the union. i agree with all three amendments.
in writing. ‒ the opinion of the committee on foreign affairs shall form an integral part of this report. in the interest of the development of the region, it is important to extend the autonomous trade measures for the western balkan countries and territories participating in the stabilisation and association process for a further five years, until 31 december 2020. this preferential trade arrangement has contributed to the increase in imports of western balkan products into the union. it is essential that the copenhagen criteria apply alongside trade considerations (including basic labour and environmental standards, promoting and protecting human rights and the principles of sustainable development). i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. - in recent times, not a day has gone by without news of christian persecution. the media is full of horrific stories, often unfortunately about child victims. we also know that thousands of women and children are currently living in refugee camps overnight. we must do everything we can to protect these christians from the cruelties of the dark ages. we must protect children, women, deprived of their human rights from the horrors of war, from the horrors of weapons anywhere in the world.
in writing. ‒ i supported and considered important the adoption of the resolution, not only out of outrage at the brutal murder of kenyan students, but also because the case strongly highlights the global, transnational and political nature of terrorism. this is a matter for the whole international community, and it is also a european matter, which the european parliament cannot afford to ignore. i take our action for granted, because as a politician i have always been particularly sensitive to the fact that my fellow human beings have been attacked by religious fanatics/terrorists because of their origin, race, or - as the case may be - religious affiliation or lack of religion. i welcome the fact that the resolution refers to the responsibility of the kenyan government and the need for international support in order to enable the authorities to deal more effectively with the terrorist threat to the kenyan population. the international community must also be held accountable, as this tragic incident once again demonstrates that poverty, social deprivation and social exclusion, along with nationalism and religious fanaticism, are the main sources of international terrorism. i am also in favour of the eu and the ep, with the help of the european external action service, continuing to monitor the situation closely and taking the necessary political steps to prevent similar tragedies.
in writing. ‒ action against terrorism must be taken at all levels. the european parliament resolution states that freedom of religion is a fundamental right and strongly condemns any form of violence or discrimination based on religion. the terrorist attacks that have intensified in recent months can only be prevented by a concerted international response. the real answer in this case will be to act together with the other african countries. i voted for the resolution.
in writing. ‒ the european parliament strongly condemns the deliberate destruction of cultural, archaeological and religious monuments by isis in syria and iraq. the proposal calls on the vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy to take appropriate policy measures to end the illicit trade in cultural goods from the syrian and iraqi territories during the conflict period, thereby preventing the use of these goods as a source of financing. cultural diplomacy and intercultural dialogue should be used as a tool for reconciling different communities and rebuilding destroyed sites. security measures should be applied at the external borders of the union to prevent the smuggling of cultural goods from syria and iraq into the union. in line with the position of the fidesz-kdnp group, i voted in favour of the adoption of the motion.
in writing. ‒ the european parliament strongly condemns the deliberate destruction of cultural, archaeological and religious monuments by isis in syria and iraq. the proposal calls on the vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy to take appropriate policy measures to end the illicit trade in cultural goods from the syrian and iraqi territories during the conflict period by preventing the use of these goods as a source of financing. cultural diplomacy and intercultural dialogue should be used as a tool for reconciling different communities and rebuilding destroyed sites. security measures should be applied at the external borders of the union to prevent the smuggling of cultural goods from syria and iraq into the union. in line with the position of the fidesz-kdnp group, i voted in favour of the adoption of the motion.
in writing. ‒ the european parliament strongly condemns the deliberate destruction of cultural, archaeological and religious monuments by isis in syria and iraq. the proposal calls on the vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy to take appropriate policy measures to end the illicit trade in cultural goods from the syrian and iraqi territories during the conflict period by preventing the use of these goods as a source of financing. cultural diplomacy and intercultural dialogue should be used as a tool for reconciling different communities and rebuilding destroyed sites. security measures should be applied at the external borders of the union to prevent the smuggling of cultural goods from syria and iraq into the union. in line with the position of the fidesz-kdnp group, i voted in favour of the adoption of the motion.
in writing. ‒ the european parliament strongly condemns the deliberate destruction of cultural, archaeological and religious monuments by isis in syria and iraq. the proposal calls on the vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy to take appropriate policy measures to end the illicit trade in cultural goods from the syrian and iraqi territories during the conflict period by preventing the use of these goods as a source of financing. cultural diplomacy and intercultural dialogue should be used as a tool for reconciling different communities and rebuilding destroyed sites. security measures should be applied at the external borders of the union to prevent the smuggling of cultural goods from syria and iraq into the union. in line with the position of the fidesz-kdnp group, i voted in favour of the adoption of the motion.
in writing. ‒ albania has made significant progress in recent years towards eu accession and was granted candidate status in june 2014. however, problems remain which need to be resolved quickly and effectively in order to make further progress on the path towards eu membership. i welcome the joint working groups established in the framework of the high level dialogue on key priorities, which aim to build a comprehensive platform to ensure the smooth implementation of reforms and to monitor progress on the five key priorities, with particular regard to administrative reform, strengthening the judiciary, combating corruption and organised crime, and strengthening the protection of human rights, including the rights of national minorities.
in writing. ‒ the european parliament adopted by a large majority a parliamentary resolution on the 2014 country report on albania. we have adopted a balanced, realistic resolution which gives a good indication of the tasks facing albania in the coming period. the government should bring about sustainable reforms in the areas of public administration, justice, fundamental freedoms, and the fight against corruption and organised crime, which remain a major challenge for the country. other serious problems arise in the area of media independence. the strong polarization in the political arena is a major drag on the future eu integration process and it is important that the government and the opposition work together responsibly and effectively. but it is important to mention the achievements of the past period. the decision acknowledges that albania has achieved eu candidate status, that it has brought its foreign policy fully into line with the eu's foreign policy stance. progress has also been made in curbing drug smuggling and production, and of particular importance are the advances in economic governance, which are directly linked to and can improve the dynamics of the eu integration process.
in writing. ‒ i supported the submission, including the commission's proposal, as amended in line with the recommendations of the advisory working party of the legal services of the european parliament, the council and the commission, which includes a simple consolidation of the existing texts without substantial amendments.
in writing. ‒ the european parliament's 2014 resolution on bosnia and herzegovina gives a realistic picture of the country's current situation, its shortcomings, its future tasks and all the progress already made. the eu's accession process is under way and the eu is committed to the implementation of the eu's external relations policy. further progress is also needed in the fight against corruption and in structural, institutional and economic reforms. political leaders must stand firmly and unequivocally for the european path and bring about the necessary reforms as soon as possible. the country's political stalemate, its institutional structure unstable and inefficient, and the relationship between political leaders are also a cause for concern. all these factors have a negative impact on the stability and development of the country. the resolution also acknowledges that the government was successfully formed in the country and that the elections were held without major complications. it is also important to mention that earlier this year bosnia and herzegovina made a written commitment to eu integration, but in order for this to not remain a mere fact, it is necessary to have a successful implementation and a comprehensive reform draft as soon as possible, and therefore it is necessary for the ep to continue to monitor bosnia and herzegovina and its development.
in writing. the european union is facing difficult economic conditions, with rising unemployment, which has serious consequences for our societies, especially for young people. the extraordinary times clearly call for extraordinary measures, for a coherent european response to overcome the crisis. as the european union's bank, the eib should play a key role in financing investment for growth and jobs. the eib has always responded to the specific needs of the regions most affected by the crisis and its report welcomes its intention to continue to do so. in many cases, this bank is the only financier that can play this role to a significant extent. as a member of the fidesz-kdnp group, i welcome the fact that the eib focused primarily on an anti-cyclical role in 2013 and that it acted as a reliable partner in economically sound investments both inside and outside the european union. i agree with the rapporteur that the investments they fund can make a real difference to people's lives, whether it is the jobs provided to hundreds of thousands of small businesses that ensure the progress of infrastructure investments in the regions most affected by the crisis, or cutting-edge innovations that help maintain europe's global competitiveness and sustain support for clean energy, and i therefore supported the constructive proposals in the report in the final vote on 30 april 2015.
in writing. ‒ the european union is facing difficult economic conditions, with rising unemployment, which has serious consequences for our societies, especially for young people. the extraordinary times clearly call for extraordinary measures, for a coherent european response to overcome the crisis. as the european union's bank, the eib should play a key role in financing investment for growth and jobs. the eib has always responded to the specific needs of the regions most affected by the crisis and its report welcomes its intention to continue to do so. in many cases, this bank is the only financier that can play this role to a significant extent. as a member of the fidesz-kdnp group, i welcome the fact that the eib focused primarily on an anti-cyclical role in 2013 and that it acted as a reliable partner in economically sound investments both inside and outside the european union. i agree with the rapporteur that the investments they fund can make a real difference to people's lives, whether it is the jobs provided to hundreds of thousands of small businesses that ensure the progress of infrastructure investments in the regions most affected by the crisis, or cutting-edge innovations that help maintain europe's global competitiveness and sustain support for clean energy, and i therefore supported the constructive proposals in the report in the final vote on 30 april 2015.
in writing. ‒ the european union is facing difficult economic conditions, with rising unemployment, which has serious consequences for our societies, especially for young people. the extraordinary times clearly call for extraordinary measures, for a coherent european response to overcome the crisis. as the european union's bank, the eib should play a key role in financing investment for growth and jobs. the eib has always responded to the specific needs of the regions most affected by the crisis and its report welcomes its intention to continue to do so. in many cases, this bank is the only financier that can play this role to a significant extent. as a member of the fidesz-kdnp group, i welcome the fact that the eib focused primarily on an anti-cyclical role in 2013 and that it acted as a reliable partner in economically sound investments both inside and outside the european union. i agree with the rapporteur that the investments they fund can make a real difference to people's lives, whether it is the jobs provided to hundreds of thousands of small businesses that ensure the progress of infrastructure investments in the regions most affected by the crisis, or cutting-edge innovations that help maintain europe's global competitiveness and sustain support for clean energy, and i therefore supported the constructive proposals in the report in the final vote on 30 april 2015.
in writing. ‒ the european union is facing difficult economic conditions, with rising unemployment, which has serious consequences for our societies, especially for young people. the extraordinary times clearly call for extraordinary measures, for a coherent european response to overcome the crisis. as the european union's bank, the eib should play a key role in financing investment for growth and jobs. the eib has always responded to the specific needs of the regions most affected by the crisis and its report welcomes its intention to continue to do so. in many cases, this bank is the only financier that can play this role to a significant extent. as a member of the fidesz-kdnp group, i welcome the fact that the eib focused primarily on an anti-cyclical role in 2013 and that it acted as a reliable partner in economically sound investments both inside and outside the european union. i agree with the rapporteur that the investments they fund can make a real difference to people's lives, whether it is the jobs provided to hundreds of thousands of small businesses that ensure the progress of infrastructure investments in the regions most affected by the crisis, or cutting-edge innovations that help maintain europe's global competitiveness and sustain support for clean energy, and i therefore supported the constructive proposals in the report in the final vote on 30 april 2015.
in writing. ‒ as a member of the fidesz-kdnp group, i welcome the fact that the eib focused primarily on a kind of anti-cyclical role in 2013 and that it behaved as a reliable partner in economically sound investments both inside and outside the european union. as the european union's bank, the eib should play a key role in financing investment for growth and jobs. the eib has always responded to the specific needs of the regions most affected by the crisis and its report welcomes its intention to continue to do so. in many cases, this bank is the only financier that can play this role to a significant extent. i agree with the rapporteur that the investments they fund can make a real difference to people's lives, whether it is the jobs provided to hundreds of thousands of small businesses that ensure the progress of infrastructure investments in the regions most affected by the crisis, or cutting-edge innovations that help maintain europe's global competitiveness and sustain support for clean energy, and i therefore supported the constructive proposals in the report in the final vote on 30 april 2015.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the adoption of the annual report 2013 of the european investment bank. however, i would like to draw attention to what the report itself rightly mentions, namely that we must bear in mind the importance of supporting smes, their drive for innovation and sustainability. however, the primary objective of investment must be to create quality jobs. the projects supported should have a greater impact on job creation, which can only be truly beneficial if it means quality jobs where a well-qualified workforce is needed. otherwise, there will be no one to create new smes and innovative start-ups. in order to avoid losing more generations, the eib should invest in measures that create sustainable jobs for the younger generation in addition to the youth employment initiative, and this should be coordinated with appropriate education/training systems, which are clearly lacking in some member states. the commitment by vice-president katainen to increase the eib's potential in youth employment and education is welcome. we expect to report on the results of this in the next annual report. however, in this area we cannot rely solely on the commission and the eib, the responsibility of the member states is indisputable. the eib's activities are not a substitute for economic policy and structural reforms in member states aimed at job creation.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution on the milan world expo, which sets out practical incentives for the commission and the member states and summarises in a comprehensive way the main issues concerning the event. i think it is important that the european parliament also addresses the global challenge of food security. i consider this topic to be of great importance, as one of my main objectives in my work is to make as much useful progress as possible on food here in the european union. the milan expo provides a unique opportunity to discuss food safety issues at an international level. addressing the scarcity of natural resources, promoting healthy food, research and sustainable forms of agriculture, reducing food waste and reducing malnutrition, all contribute to improving the security of food production and supply. this event will also provide an opportunity to discuss other topics such as food taxation or the fight against food fraud. in my view, the practice of high taxation completely exhausts the concept of overtaxation, against which i am also calling for a solution at eu level in the taxe committee. i should also note that the high tax content also puts sustainability in question, as one of the main objectives of the cap is to provide food at affordable prices for the consumer.
in writing. ‒ the plenary session will be followed by the opening of the next world expo in milan, with the theme 'feeding our planet' and 'energy for life'. the resolution adopted by the ep encourages the european commission and the member states to use this opportunity to ensure that everyone has access to healthy food and to tackle food waste. i supported the resolution.
it's a two-card draw. i would like to ask my colleague from svoboda, although i could ask any mp from the people's party. in the ranks of your party family sits a popular delegation of the hungarian fidesz. how do you live with them? when their boss, viktor orbán, is pledging daily loyalty to putin and his regime, and, what's more, making all sorts of deals with him?
mr president, i think the procedure which is going on here, whereby someone in one of the member states who does not belong to a majority party here in the european parliament says something and we call an emergency debate and resolution, is not the right way. rebecca harms gave two reasons why we should have a resolution on this, and both of them are false. the first was on the death penalty. viktor orbán made it clear, in conversation with the president and also in public statements, that he is not taking any measures to reintroduce the death penalty. so there is nothing on the table. the other issue is whether there will be a referendum in hungary. there is not going to be a referendum in hungary. rebecca harms, when asking for a resolution on this question, should have been better prepared on this, because this is not a referendum but a questionnaire with about a dozen questions on immigration, which is currently the hot topic in europe. they do not like these questions being asked of the people. i think that the two reasons given by rebecca harms are false, so my opinion is that we should not have a resolution on this topic.
in writing. developing countries have a disproportionately high number of people with disabilities, who very often live in extreme poverty and lack basic human rights. the european year of development is a unique opportunity to do something for them. but ending poverty and inequality can only be achieved by mobilising sufficient and adequate resources for all and better targeting marginalised groups such as children, women, the elderly or people with disabilities. illegal capital outflows from developing countries amount to us$1 trillion, or ten times official development assistance. it is therefore necessary to strengthen the tax collection capacity of developing countries by strengthening the areas of tax administration, financial management and public financial management. international collaboration is needed to improve the quality of statistics, data and information, including data disaggregated by income, gender, age, racial and ethnic origin, migration status, disability, geographical location and other characteristics relevant to the national context. this is the only way to ensure transparent and effective implementation of assistance and financing, in particular by signing and effectively implementing the provisions of the un convention against corruption.
blue-card question. – mr president, i listened quite carefully to the explanation by my colleague, but my question is rather of a general nature. when we are talking about this battle, as the commissioner has pointed out already, it is about money, nothing else: money from the point of view of the governments; and money from the point of view of the criminals. does she think that the current policies of the european commission are adequate in order to prevent future crimes?
any measure or initiative that would harmonise, simplify or make tax practices more transparent within the eu is welcome. and the fact that from this year onwards the rate of taxation of radio and audiovisual media services, telecommunications services and electronic services provided to private individuals will be determined by the tariff key of the place of residence of the private consumer. well, this is very important for my country, hungarian businesses, because until now they were at a huge disadvantage, because they could only provide services at the highest vat rate in the union, i.e. 27%, and everyone else was cheaper than them. however, in addition to the fact that this in itself raises the question of overdose, there are two other things that pose dangers. hopefully, a european tax union will solve all of this, but until we get there, we face two dangers here. one is that the idea of a 'mini one-stop shop' seems very good, but here it is important to be careful that individual operators do not collect, say, the amounts corresponding to the highest tax rate in the member state. this is important because for some euro services it does not make such a marked difference. it is also possible to distort trade by allowing certain suppliers to supply only one type of market or a few markets where vat is the lowest. i therefore ask, and i propose, that we consider establishing a common vat rate for services which are the most european and operate across borders.
the court of justice of the european union recently ruled that member states should be able to reduce the tax on books stored in digital form. we may be happy about this, but the answer is not that simple. so the first question that comes up is, what is this digital form, what do we consider to be part of this circle? and then we're not happy anymore, because it turns out that only the books that appear on physical media, on cds, on flash drives. at the same time, books downloaded from the internet, for example, are already considered as a service. i'm afraid that any exceptions we make in this area will only complicate the system. but that is not what we are interested in at all, we are interested in simplification, because i think all the speakers have said that we have a common interest in making our businesses, especially small and mediumsized enterprises, which are poorer in capital and have fewer opportunities, competitive in this area. so we should have a system in place to support these companies that have suffered a significant competitive disadvantage in this area. at the same time, i would like to draw attention to another aspect of the issue of vat reductions: it is clear that this is a budgetary issue, a matter for the member states. we're not here to complicate things. simplification, acceleration, and the first step of that is to have a very good piece of legislation that creates the framework for that.
in writing. in the context of quality healthcare, it should be emphasised that patient safety is also closely linked to labour shortages. unfortunately, there was very little mention of this in the report. the european union is facing a growing shortage of health workers. the commission estimates that by 2020 there will be a shortage of around 1 million healthcare workers in europe's healthcare systems. the reasons are complex, including the rise in the average age of workers, the lack of the necessary replacement, the increase in the demand for care of an ageing society. however, for hungary and several other new member states, the real problem is the migration of health workers. in europe, we are witnessing a reverse labour dumping: the old member states are luring doctors, nurses and social workers from the new member states abroad with the promise of wages five to ten times higher, creating a serious problem of security of supply in the countries concerned. as the member states most affected by migration cannot be expected to raise the salaries of health workers to a similar level in a short time, it is essential that the european commission address the problem as a matter of priority. it is not enough to draw up eu action plans and studies, concrete assistance and european solidarity are needed to remedy the deteriorating situation.
it's a two-card draw. - madam president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. you gave a very nice list of the aspects to be taken into account in the creation of the digital single market, but i missed it, or at least i did not hear you talk about the taxation issue. the cross-border nature of this sector is quite strong. i ask you: can you agree that a single internal market should be established for vat as well?
in writing. - my fellow members of parliament! an integrated strategy and clear legal rules are needed to ensure that the digital revolution shaping our world can deliver on our core values and that the changes brought about by development benefit all european citizens. as a politician of the mszp and also as a member of the political leadership of the european internet foundation i actively support the european commission's proposal for a digital single market. however, in order to create a digital environment that allows cross-border cooperation with the necessary guarantees and at the same time ensures the rights of consumers and citizens, as envisaged by the social democrats, not only a single digital market is needed, but a digital union. europe must play an active role in the digital revolution, and it is in hungary's interest to be part of the digital union. the progressive innovations brought about by the digital revolution are bringing about major changes in the functioning of almost all sectors, including tourism, which is a major driver of europe's economy. as vice-chair of the european parliament's committee on transport and tourism, i therefore attach great importance to the debate on the creation of the digital union.
the next item is the vote. (for the results and other details of the vote: see minutes)
that concludes the vote.
the next item is the explanations of vote.
written explanations of vote
in writing. ‒ the codification report, noted by andrzej duda, helps to structure european union legislation in a uniform way. as a result, the union acts to be consolidated are repealed and replaced by a single legislative act by a single legislative decision, provided that the changes do not involve substantial amendments. this procedure, based on the interinstitutional agreement between the european parliament, the european commission and the european council on better law-making, facilitates the coordination of legislative processes and contributes to making them more transparent for union citizens. i voted in favour of this report because i consider it essential to improve the quality of legislation, to simplify legislation.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on safeguard measures provided for in the agreement between the european economic community and the swiss confederation (codified text). as an alternate member of the delegation to the eu/iceland joint parliamentary committee and the eea joint parliamentary committee responsible for relations with switzerland and norway, i consider it particularly important to draw attention to the fact that the amendments will make cooperation more effective. one of the main elements of this is the bilateral safeguard regime, the implementation of which requires the adoption of safeguard measures under uniform conditions. i think it is important to note that the european parliament, through its work in the consultation procedure, is making a tangible contribution to making the legislation more effective in a way that is understandable to the electorate.
written explanations of vote
written explanations of vote
written explanations of vote
written explanations of vote
written explanations of vote
written explanations of vote
in writing. as the people's party coordinator of the constitutional affairs committee, i consider it important that other eu institutions have the opportunity to express their views and make proposals on the report improving the functioning of the european union by exploiting the potential of the lisbon treaty. rule 137 of the rules of procedure and rules of procedure provides for the possibility of consulting the european parliament on these important issues. that is why, following the line of the people's party, i voted in favour of the request for consultation of the european economic and social committee.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of consulting the european economic and social committee in shaping the institutional future of the european union, because the eesc has shown in its work that it can make a useful contribution to the development of common european solutions by integrating the perspectives, interests and knowledge of the various economic operators and by directly representing them, especially in the wake of the crisis. i consider this to be particularly important in the current period of economic governance, and particularly in order to assess and validate the economic aspects of the non-euro area member states. i also took into account that the treaty of lisbon itself assigns an important role to the european economic and social committee and i believe that analysing and asserting the perspectives beyond the government, the council and political actors can also be useful in exploiting the potential of the new institutional structure.
written explanations of vote
in writing. as the people's party coordinator of the constitutional affairs committee, i consider it important that other eu institutions have an opportunity to express their views and make proposals on the report possible changes and amendments to the current institutional structure of the european union. rule 137 of the rules of procedure and rules of procedure provides for the possibility of consulting the european parliament on these important issues. that is why, following the line of the people's party, i voted in favour of the request for consultation of the european economic and social committee.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of consulting the european economic and social committee in shaping the institutional future of the european union, because the eesc has shown in its work that it can make a useful contribution to the development of common european solutions by integrating the perspectives, interests and knowledge of the various economic operators and by directly representing them, especially in the wake of the crisis. i consider this to be particularly important in the current period of economic governance, and particularly in order to assess and validate the economic aspects of the non-euro area member states. i also took into account that the treaty of lisbon itself assigns an important role to the european economic and social committee and i believe that analysing and asserting the perspectives beyond the government, the council and political actors can also be useful in exploiting the potential of the new institutional structure.
written explanations of vote
in writing. as the people's party coordinator of the constitutional affairs committee, i consider it important that other eu institutions have the opportunity to express their views and make proposals on the report improving the functioning of the european union by exploiting the potential of the lisbon treaty. rule 138 of the rules of procedure and rules of procedure provides for the possibility of consulting the european parliament on these important issues. i therefore voted in favour of the request for consultation of the committee of the regions, following the line of the people's party.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the adoption of the report because i am convinced that the committee of the regions, as the guardian of subsidiarity, is an essential actor in the democratic and effective functioning of european integration. i also consider its involvement in shaping the future of the european union to be important because, in the institutional crisis that preceded the adoption of the current eu institutional structure, the committee of the regions played an important bridging role by strengthening the regional dimension of european cooperation and thus contributing to maintaining its operational capacity. as an institution particularly close to the citizen, it can continue to strengthen the democratic content of the union's functioning. in my decision, i also took into account the fact that the committee of the regions' opinion and expertise had already made a valuable contribution to the development of the treaty of lisbon, and that the treaty of lisbon itself had given the committee of the regions a new role and a new mandate to exploit the new institutional opportunities.
written explanations of vote
in writing. as the people's party coordinator of the constitutional affairs committee, i consider it important that other eu institutions have an opportunity to express their views and make proposals on the report possible changes and amendments to the current institutional structure of the european union. rule 138 of the rules of procedure and rules of procedure provides for the possibility of consulting the european parliament on these important issues. i therefore voted in favour of the request for consultation of the committee of the regions, following the line of the people's party.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the adoption of the report because i am convinced that the committee of the regions, as the guardian of subsidiarity, is an essential actor in the democratic and effective functioning of european integration. i also consider its involvement in shaping the future of the european union to be important because, in the institutional crisis that preceded the adoption of the current eu institutional structure, the committee of the regions played an important bridging role by strengthening the regional dimension of european cooperation and thus contributing to maintaining its operational capacity. as an institution particularly close to the citizen, it can continue to strengthen the democratic content of the union's functioning.
oral explanations of vote
written explanations of vote
in writing. the reduction of financial speculation is a welcome objective. unfortunately, this solution is fragile and, at first sight, extremely bureaucratic, and it also requires the member states to exercise their competence. and yet, the regulation does not address the root of the problem, and so it is not able to stop the rampant financial speculation that we are seeing today as a symptom of the greek crisis. the proposal is unacceptable because the present situation is unsustainable, with the eu divided into debtors' and creditors' camps. it is very timely that the free flow of capital should be replaced by controlled flows of capital, otherwise the fundamental objective of preventing financial manipulation to plunder economically weaker member states cannot be achieved.
oral explanations of vote
written explanations of vote
in writing. ‒ i would like to stress that official development assistance should prioritise basic social services for all and public goods that the private sector can provide less effectively, such as basic education, social safety nets, healthcare, and sanitation, water and energy infrastructure, so that developing countries can reach their full potential. it is important that accessibility should be a fundamental criterion in international public funding to support universal and inclusive services and infrastructure. i supported the adoption of the report in agreement with the fidesz-kdnp group.
in writing. ‒ the third financing for development conference will be held in addis ababa in july 2015. the conference brings together high-level representatives from political life, international actors, non-governmental actors and business actors. the aim is to decide on the amount of money to be allocated to international development and to support the implementation of the eu and global development framework post-2015, including the sustainable development goals, which are planned to be adopted in new york in september 2015. the report aims to establish an international partnership for development finance that effectively supports the above objectives. the report highlights the european union's leadership in international development and stresses the importance of shared responsibility, and calls on emerging and middle-income countries to make significant commitments. the report urges the european union to immediately re-commit itself to a target of 0.7% of gni for official development assistance (oda). at least 50% of official development assistance and at least 0,2% of gni to be reserved for least developed countries and taking into account budgetary constraints. these objectives are in line with the policy pursued by fidesz-kdnp, in particular with regard to the settlement of the migration issue. that's why i voted for it.
in writing. the third development finance conference will be held in addis ababa in july 2015. the conference brings together high-level representatives from political life, international actors, non-governmental actors and business actors. the aim is to decide on the amount of money to be allocated to international development and to support the implementation of the eu and global development framework post-2015, including the sustainable development goals, which are planned to be adopted in new york in september 2015. the report aims to establish an international partnership for development finance that effectively supports the above objectives. the report highlights the european union's leadership in international development and stresses the importance of shared responsibility, and calls on emerging and middle-income countries to make significant commitments. the report urges the european union to immediately re-commit itself to a target of 0.7% of gni for official development assistance (oda). at least 50% of official development assistance and at least 0,2% of gni to be reserved for least developed countries, and taking into account budgetary constraints. these objectives are in line with the policy pursued by fidesz-kdnp, in particular with regard to the settlement of the migration issue. that's why i voted for it.
in writing. ‒ the third financing for development conference will be held in addis ababa in july 2015. the conference brings together high-level representatives from political life, international actors, non-governmental actors and business actors. the aim is to decide on the amount of money to be allocated to international development and to support the implementation of the eu and global development framework post-2015, including the sustainable development goals, which are planned to be adopted in new york in september 2015. the report aims to establish an international partnership for development finance that effectively supports the above objectives. the report highlights the european union's leadership in international development and stresses the importance of shared responsibility, and calls on emerging and middle-income countries to make significant commitments. the report urges the european union to immediately re-commit itself to a target of 0.7% of gni for official development assistance (oda). at least 50% of official development assistance and at least 0,2% of gni to be reserved for least developed countries and taking into account budgetary constraints. these objectives are in line with the policy pursued by fidesz-kdnp, in particular with regard to the settlement of the migration issue. that's why i voted for it.
in writing. ‒ the third financing for development conference will be held in addis ababa in july 2015. the conference brings together high-level representatives from political life, international actors, non-governmental actors and business actors. the aim is to decide on the amount of money to be allocated to international development and to support the implementation of the eu and global development framework post-2015, including the sustainable development goals, which are planned to be adopted in new york in september 2015. the report aims to establish an international partnership for development finance that effectively supports the above objectives. the report highlights the european union's leadership in international development and stresses the importance of shared responsibility, and calls on emerging and middle-income countries to make significant commitments. the report urges the european union to immediately re-commit itself to a target of 0.7% of gni for official development assistance (oda). at least 50% of official development assistance and at least 0,2% of gni to be reserved for least developed countries and taking into account budgetary constraints. these objectives are in line with the policy pursued by fidesz-kdnp, in particular with regard to the settlement of the migration issue. that's why i voted for it.
in writing. ‒ the third financing for development conference will be held in addis ababa in july 2015. the conference brings together high-level representatives from political life, international actors, non-governmental actors and business actors. the aim is to decide on the amount of money to be allocated to international development and to support the implementation of the eu and global development framework post-2015, including the sustainable development goals, which are planned to be adopted in new york in september 2015. the report aims to establish an international partnership for development finance that effectively supports the above objectives. the report highlights the european union's leadership in international development and stresses the importance of shared responsibility, and calls on emerging and middle-income countries to make significant commitments. the report urges the european union to immediately re-commit itself to a target of 0.7% of gni for official development assistance (oda). at least 50% of official development assistance and at least 0,2% of gni to be reserved for least developed countries and taking into account budgetary constraints. these objectives are in line with the policy pursued by fidesz-kdnp, in particular with regard to the settlement of the migration issue. that's why i voted for it.
in writing. ‒ the third financing for development conference will be held in addis ababa in july 2015. the conference brings together high-level representatives from political life, international actors, non-governmental actors and business actors. the aim is to decide on the amount of money to be allocated to international development and to support the implementation of the eu and global development framework post-2015, including the sustainable development goals, which are planned to be adopted in new york in september 2015. the report aims to establish an international partnership for development finance that effectively supports the above objectives. the document highlights the european union's leading role in international development and stresses the importance of shared responsibility, and calls on emerging and middle-income countries to make significant commitments. the report urges the european union to immediately re-commit itself to a target of 0.7% of gni for official development assistance (oda). at least 50% of official development assistance and at least 0,2% of gni to be reserved for least developed countries and taking into account budgetary constraints. these objectives are in line with the policy pursued by fidesz-kdnp, in particular with regard to the settlement of the migration issue. that's why i voted for it.
in writing. ‒ the third financing for development conference will be held in addis ababa in july 2015. the conference brings together high-level representatives from political life, international actors, non-governmental actors and business actors. the aim is to decide on the amount of money to be allocated to international development and to support the implementation of the eu and global development framework post-2015, including the sustainable development goals, which are planned to be adopted in new york in september 2015. the report aims to establish an international partnership for development finance that effectively supports the above objectives. the report highlights the european union's leadership in international development and stresses the importance of shared responsibility, and calls on emerging and middle-income countries to make significant commitments. the report urges the european union to immediately re-commit itself to a target of 0.7% of gni for official development assistance (oda). at least 50% of official development assistance and at least 0,2% of gni to be reserved for least developed countries, and taking into account budgetary constraints. these objectives are in line with the policy pursued by fidesz-kdnp, in particular with regard to the settlement of the migration issue. that's why i voted for it.
in writing. ‒ the european union and its member states' participation in humanitarian and development assistance plays an important role in ensuring the livelihoods of the 1.5 billion people living in extreme poverty, in maintaining international stability, and in promoting global development. i believe it is particularly important that this aid be focused on eradicating poverty and providing basic public services such as education, health care, water and energy. i believe it is essential that the terms of aid create favourable conditions for private companies and for participation in development and build on the contribution of the civil sector.
in writing. ‒ the third financing for development conference will be held in addis ababa in july 2015. the conference brings together high-level representatives from political life, international actors, non-governmental actors and business actors. the aim is to decide on the amount of money to be allocated to international development and to support the implementation of the eu and global development framework post-2015, including the sustainable development goals, which are planned to be adopted in new york in september 2015. the report aims to establish an international partnership for development finance that effectively supports the above objectives. the report highlights the european union's leadership in international development and stresses the importance of shared responsibility, and calls on emerging and middle-income countries to make significant commitments. the report urges the european union to immediately re-commit itself to a target of 0.7% of gni for official development assistance (oda). at least 50% of official development assistance and at least 0,2% of gni to be reserved for least developed countries, and taking into account budgetary constraints. these objectives are in line with the policy pursued by fidesz-kdnp, in particular with regard to the settlement of the migration issue. that's why i voted for it.
in writing. ‒ the report aims to develop an international partnership for financing development that effectively supports the implementation of the eu and global development framework post-2015, including the sustainable development goals. the report highlights the european union's leadership in international development and stresses the importance of shared responsibility, and calls on emerging and middle-income countries to make significant commitments. these objectives are in line with the policy pursued by fidesz-kdnp, in particular with regard to the settlement of the migration issue. that's why i voted for it.
oral explanations of vote
written explanations of vote
in writing. ‒ patient safety and the fight against drug resistance with particular reference to antimicrobial resistance is not a new topic for those involved in the management of health systems. i am convinced that responsible and targeted use of antibiotics in both human and veterinary medicine, and global strategies to control infections across all sectors of healthcare (hospitals, long-term care and outpatient facilities) are the cornerstones of effective interventions to screen for and prevent the transmission of antibiotic-resistant bacteria. i would like to stress the need to ensure that health policies do not fall victim to the cuts caused by the economic crisis and austerity measures, and that the objective of applying the highest possible patient safety standards set by the eu is not jeopardised. on behalf of the fidesz-kdnp group, i supported the adoption of the report
in writing. between 50 and 70% of meat products tested by european consumer organisations in 14 eu member states were found to be contaminated with antibiotic-resistant bacteria. if you have a problem with cooking or eating, you have a good chance of getting these bacteria during a hospital visit or even a visit. it's a good sign. the proposal attempts in many respects to find a way out of a situation which is not in the least rosy and should therefore be supported. it would be helpful if the old member countries did not lure the health workers and researchers of the new member countries with better salaries, which are largely covered by the colonization of the new member countries. they should be training their own specialists before the bacteria that are pooping on the border win.
in writing. ‒ antibiotic resistance could threaten the lives of up to 10 million european citizens by 2050. the report submitted shall contain reasonable and feasible proposals to minimise this risk. it is particularly important that patients are given adequate information about the possible long-term effects of each treatment.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on safer healthcare, which helps prevent and control healthcare-associated infections. the report deals with the control of serious cross-border health threats, which i believe is of common european interest. the report highlights the sad fact that 8-12% of patients in hospitals in the union experience avoidable adverse events in healthcare. i believe that it is essential for the safety of patients and for quality healthcare that healthcare professionals are able to work in a safe and decent working environment. i personally welcome the improvement of the eu surveillance system for healthcare-associated infections and regret that the relative progress of member states in patient safety is uneven. i agree that health systems should not be affected by restrictive measures and that adequate funding for these systems should be maintained; therefore member states should in particular avoid harmful measures. the report calls on member states to ensure that an even more patient-centred approach is introduced and that adequate healthcare professionals are available to this end; and encourages member states, including hungary, to ensure equal access to healthcare services for patients in order to eliminate health inequalities.
oral explanations of vote
i supported the adoption of the report because small and medium-sized enterprises must be given a prominent role in the green economy. the global annual market for this economy is in the order of €1 trillion and could double by 2020. why is it important that smes play a key role in this economy? because economic development cannot be an end in itself, and 67% of jobs in the european union are in small and medium-sized enterprises. therefore, they should also be assisted in this respect by means of loans and grant aid. in this context, i find it strange that the benefit for smes in the european fund for strategic investments is extended to large companies with 3,000 employees, so that it does not really help this group of companies that create jobs.
written explanations of vote
in writing. ‒ it is well known that more than 98% of eu enterprises are smes, and these smes account for 67% of the total employment level in the union and 58% of the gross value added. this means that smes are the backbone of the european union's economy and an important driver of long-term economic growth and job creation in the 28 member states. it is important that policy-makers fully understand the potential of the green economy, but also recognise the difficulties currently faced by smes, in particular in greening their products, production processes, business practices and services. the commission's green action plan for smes is an initiative to further encourage smes to extend the benefits of green growth. the enormous potential of the green economy can only be fully exploited if the right framework for research, development and innovation (r & d & i) is in place. although various public funding schemes may provide some incentives for r & d & i, the biggest incentive is an open, stable and innovation-friendly regulatory and investment framework. clearly, green growth has great potential, but this potential can only be fully exploited if a number of basic conditions are met. such conditions include a stronger emergence of entrepreneurial thinking, the development of open and innovation-friendly rules, diversification of access to finance or the expansion of opportunities for knowledge sharing.
in writing. every year, there are many excellent statistics showing that more than 98% of eu enterprises are smes and that smes account for 67% of total employment and 58% of gross value added in the union. but the subsidies, the tax breaks, the big corporations are getting the bulk of it. perhaps the most tangible element of the proposal is that it calls on the commission and the eib to ensure that smes, including green and innovative enterprises, are the main beneficiaries of the support provided under the proposal during the implementation phase of the european investment plan. i'm all for any solution that can help small businesses overcome the disadvantages of multi-channel, including this one.
in writing. ‒ the changing environment and the emergence of a smart and green economy present both challenges and opportunities for all actors. the situation of small and medium-sized enterprises is particularly important as they are important employers and can also represent a breakout opportunity for many. these enterprises are flexible and creative in adapting to market changes and are able to mobilise significant intellectual capital. among the instruments proposed, those relating in particular to research and innovation and training and to regulatory rationalisation appear promising.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the green growth opportunities for small and medium-sized enterprises (smes), as i consider the role of smes in the green economy to be important. the report points out that more than 98% of enterprises in the union are smes and that smes account for 67% of the total employment level in the union and 58% of the gross value added. the report supports the vision of green growth and the circular economy and highlights the significant economic and employment potential of these areas for different sectors. it stresses the need to look at green growth in a broader perspective, which i believe is lacking in many member states. i find it regrettable that the hungarian government does not have this perspective and that it does not exploit the potential of green energy. the report's recommendations include that the eu needs to radically change its entrepreneurial culture so that more people start their own businesses and explore more business opportunities, especially in the area of green growth. in this process, the added value of the eu budget in supporting smes, micro, social enterprises and cooperatives to access finance and international markets (both in terms of operations, research and development, start-up incentives, deregulation and, for example, knowledge management) will be highlighted. i hope that the recommendations of the report will be implemented in hungary as soon as possible.
the rapporteur of the opinion of the committee on the internal market and consumer protection. i also thank the high representative for her thoughts. indeed, the issue of defence policy is an important one, and the issue of migration is no longer knocking on the door, but is already in the living room waiting to be answered. however, let me not deal with this issue, but rather with the conditions of protection and the importance of creating it, as the rapporteur for imco did in this matter, focusing specifically on the subject. the high representative ended her speech by mentioning the very important issues, such as the transposition of the home affairs directive. i agree with this, it is very important that the member states transpose this directive. it is only in this way that we can achieve the goal of an integrated internal market and that the fragmentation that exists can be reduced. more so, because let's be honest, our previous measures to standardize demand have not been very successful. i can also say that the european defence agency's capacity building plan, for example, has not produced any results. i'm waiting for the june summit to come up with a decision, conclusions and actual work.
it's a two-card draw. mr president of the group, i respect your work, you are the leader of the european people's party, the largest parliamentary group, and that is why i would like to ask you what you think of the following sentence: i think that europe does not exist now, there is a flimsy institutional system called the european union, which has long since hardly resembled what the founding fathers set out to achieve, let alone a community of values. no, this is not what a politician of some extreme political force said, but what the president of the hungarian parliament, a leader of fidesz, said about this institutional system the other day. let me ask you, mr. weber, what is your opinion? one of the leaders of a disorganized institution?
it's a two-card draw. mr president, i didn't really want to ask a question, but if you do, i'd be happy to ask mr pittella, just to be balanced: mr pittella, you are so sensitive to ... (the president interrupts the member) i'm going to keep going. it's a little complicated, but it's such an interesting and colorful story. mr pittella, what about mr timmermans, who specifically threatened us because he said that article 2 would be used against us. mr. pittella, are you not in favor of talking openly and publicly about issues? mr. pittella, do you have a list of taboo subjects? share these with me, because then i don't know what parliament i'm in. can't we talk about the death penalty? is that a taboo subject? can't we talk about the fact that there are immigration issues and that needs to be resolved? what can we talk about then? where's that list? i'd like to know.
it's a two-card draw. i'd like to ask you a very short question. would you, mr. kirkhope, like your country's prime minister to say that he wants to build an illiberal democracy in your country? would you agree with your prime minister?
it's a two-card draw. i have a very short question: why is it shocking that a national consultation is held in which every hungarian citizen is asked about an important issue that no one here discusses, the refugee issue?
when i saw the title 'the situation in hungary' in the agenda item, i could not understand why. as a representative of the movement for a better hungary, i know of no events that would justify this agenda. i am now convinced that you, the european parliament, do not respect your own values: freedom of expression. why not start a social debate in a country, for example, on the issue of immigration, which we're debating here tomorrow? why can't we talk about taboo subjects based on the demands of society? you also want to tell me what to ask a government if it asks. the strange thing is that i myself wouldn't have spent 1 billion forints on it and found another way to do it. but this is not a violation of european values. i can assure you that the orbán government is continuing on the path hungary embarked on at the time of the lisbon treaty, which leads to a deeper integration, both explicitly and implicitly, towards the 'united states of europe'. fidesz, merged into the people's party, represents exactly that in this parliament. president barroso expressed his appreciation to viktor orbán for the six-month hungarian presidency, during which he did much to introduce economic governance. when viktor orbán talks about the ukrainian situation, saying that autonomy is the most important thing for hungarians, the foreign minister in the official forum says that ukraine's integrity is the most important thing. rest assured, despite some domestic rhetoric, this administration is meeting your expectations.
that's a two-card answer. on monday, you may have told a slanderous story here at the agenda discussion. he called the movement for a better hungary a death threat to homosexual people. i checked it out, nothing like that happened. there's no news of that. i don't know what personal interest you bring here, but the movement for a better hungary has never made any such threats. at the most, it was said on occasion that he spoke out against the excessive propaganda of this, which is offensive to the public, but never, in any way, opposed those who are homosexual.
mr. president, this may sound strange, but i have to say i'm not happy to have the hungarian prime minister in this parliament. i'm not happy about it because every time he came here, all five times, it was always about the same shameful policies that this government is pursuing, and the shadow of those policies is cast, whether we like it or not, on my country. again, the prime minister in his speech painted a callous, inhuman, xenophobic picture of hungary. and i want to assure the house that this is not hungary, this is not my country. this government is constantly and consciously confronting the fundamental values of the european union, the values on which this union is built. illiberal democracy, the success of autocratic political systems, the debates around democracy, which the prime minister called "bullshit", i have to say, there is of course no solidarity in this hungary, of course there is only misleading people, inciting fear and stirring up resentments. and all because the far-right voters are being hunted by the government, by the prime minister. his original supporters are gone, and now he needs the far right. i have to say that the european union cannot finance, cannot support this kind of policy, it must be made clear that it is not hungary that is sitting on the shameful bench, but the policy of the hungarian government.
mr. president, i think we're in the same place in this debate as we were in the previous ones: nobody listens to anybody. mr verhofstadt, you deliberately let viktor orbán slip the phrase that as a christian, a christian democrat, you want to accept all the persecuted. did you deliberately let those words slip past your ears in the argument? because if so, then he lied and abused the 56 refugees in this case, exploiting their misery for low and petty political ends. mr. verhofstadt, do you consider yourself a democrat? you're the one who's flagging the questions for this questionnaire. do you think that asking every hungarian citizen, every adult hungarian citizen, a question on an important issue, such as the one you mentioned, whether the regulations are stricter in something, is undemocratic? these are rhetorical questions, and i know you're gonna let these slip by, so you don't have to answer them. but i think that the deaf dialogue is still going on, and i would add that i understand the remorse of many of the speakers on the left who have attacked us, because they come from countries that had great colonial empires, and as a result, they have a very different culture of welcoming people. hungary is different. there has been no immigration in hungary in the recent period. as a result, you don't know what our problem is. what happens when you arrive at the border in droves of refugees, of persecuted people, and you can't differentiate between economic refugees and people fleeing political persecution? hungary is the second country after sweden that has accepted the most asylum applications in the recent period. what is your problem with incorporating our experience into european regulation? i see in 't veld mrs. is also shaking her head that i said something awful by saying that your culture regarding immigration is different. indeed, you made some wrong decisions 20 or 30 years ago, decisions that we do not want to make because we want to, because we have a different culture, different customs, and the hungarian population must be very careful in this respect, precisely in order to prevent xenophobia in europe. peaceful coexistence is a fundamental issue for europe. so we have to create the conditions for that to happen.
mr. president, i am a hungarian and a european social democrat. that is why i would like to point out very strongly that it is not hungary, as the orbán government has been showing in the past. i am ashamed of the orbán government for the way it portrays us, and i would like to join my colleagues who are saying that hungary has another face. so let's pour some clean water into the glass. the hungarian prime minister is not concerned with the death penalty, not with the problem of migrants, not with a national consultation, but with a national system of mind-altering, maintained annually with tens of millions of euros, a goebbels technology in which they try to lead the hungarian people. but not everyone is asking you, mr prime minister, not to speak on my behalf, for example, not to speak on behalf of the hundreds of thousands of hungarian young people who have left the country, and not to speak on behalf of those who, for example, sent me their questionnaire and asked me to tear it up here in parliament, because it is not a real questionnaire, it is a provocation and a change of consciousness.
mr president, mr prime minister, in order to make your european partners see you throwing down the gauntlet of common european democratic values, you have been convincing them for years that fidesz is the barrier to the advance of the extreme right in hungary. but in his race against the far right, he may not have realized how he was becoming more and more like those from whom he wanted to take political space. your speech today did not dispel that suspicion, and i think that slowly, mr weber, you too must face this fact. the problem is that the strategy has failed. instead of seducing voters with his increasingly radical speeches, he himself accustomed his voters to the ideas that jobbik has been voicing for years. and these voters, when it becomes clear to them that the only consequence of your government is pervasive, institutionalized corruption, are now migrating without any internal barrier. you personally paved the way for them to do that. mr. prime minister, you would like to consider yourself as adding to the ranks of outstanding hungarian leaders, but you will only be a historical example of one thing: narrow-minded political cynicism.
i am very sorry that you did not allow the use of the blue card, because then all the many-many errors, omissions, lies that have been said could have been dealt with, so i can only say very quickly that there is no consultation on the introduction of the death penalty, mrs ferrara, and i hope you are listening: this is a serious mistake. yes, we provide for refugees, mr. verhofstadt, we take them in and we distinguish between refugees and illegal economic migrants, mr. verhofstadt. we consider free employment and free movement to be a common european achievement, mrs lunacek, and if we consider this a common european achievement, i do not understand why the prime minister is blaming people for living off free employment and free movement. i don't understand what you're basing your moral judgment on, mrs. wikström, what you're basing your moral judgment on, some of us in this room. i'll just say that because the number of illegal border crossers in hungary has suddenly increased by such a large number, twenty times, it's no wonder that people are concerned about these issues. in this questionnaire, the questions are worded as they are, as these questions appear to them. in each case, you are given an 'agree' or 'disagree' so that you can decide whether or not you agree with the questions you have raised. we think this is an opportunity for a democratic response. yes, people on the street do not ask questions or express their fears in the correct style of speech that is accepted in the brussels corridors, but i think it would be important to finally listen to how these people talk on the street. i'm sorry, mr. president, that you didn't read the letter that represented the voice of hundreds of thousands of hungarians that was requested of you today. according to this, the majority of hungarian people think that this debate today is unnecessary and pointless ... (president interrupts speech)
in writing. this afternoon there were two debates on the issue of migration: the first was a sympathetic, albeit critical, one that showed that we cannot be satisfied with what we have achieved so far. in contrast, the tone of this debate is aggressive, targeting a country with a prime minister who senses the real problems and, instead of discussing them superficially, speaks openly about them, and, moreover, calls for consultation of more than 8 million hungarian citizens. the reasons for today's debate were very sought after, and the ep representatives of the hungarian opposition parties also spat the plenary speeches into their mouths. i think the ep has taken a dangerous path with these debates, as they have become a political tool, unfortunately not for the first time. the strasbourg plenary session today has become a plaything for unsuccessful opposition parties in hungary. and the threat of migration is truly enormous. as most of the speakers pointed out, the immigration statistics in hungary speak for themselves. let's not argue, this is not the way. the hungarian opposition parties should win the favor of their voters at home. we must recognise the seriousness of the situation and not leave member states alone with their migration problems. it is time to find a common answer: illegal immigration for livelihood is not the solution to europe's demographic problems, the right answer is to further extend family policies.
in writing. some demagogically quote the bible and european principles and judge on the basis of them. (matt. 7:1) jesus' words are not to be taken lightly. for what seems to be a low interest in party politics, the militant spokesmen of the left-liberal parties have been trying for years to put hungary on the shameful european pedestal. the current debate was provoked by, for example, false accusations and slander that the hungarian government, in particular prime minister viktor orbán, is pursuing a racist and xenophobic policy on refugees, wants to close the border to refugees and wants to send them to labor camps. one could say that this political witch hunt, which is the measure of the general hungarian opposition, could not have taken place without the complicit contribution of the opposition parties of the homeland. but for the ex-communists and ultra-liberals who have lost their political and economic power, nothing is precious in their quest to loot and overthrow the government. aware of their own weakness and hopelessness, they call upon the "salvation armies" of their ill-intentioned or misguided western comrades. we can safely say that the allegations made in the debate are untrue, targeted and distorted. it is not the immigrants who should be protected from the hungarians, but rather hungary and the whole of europe from the flood of economic refugees. hungary should not be stigmatized, but on the contrary: it should deserve solidarity and support from the union.
the following is the second reading of the recommendation of the committee on economic and monetary affairs and the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs: prevention of the use of financial systems for the purpose of money laundering or terrorist financing (05933/4/2015 - c8-0109/2015 - 2013/0025 ((cod)) (director: krišjānis kariņš, judith sargentini (a8-0153/2015).
it's a two-card draw. madam president, in your speech you drew attention to a number of errors which could be dangerous in the application of the directive, and in your last words you mentioned the fight against tax havens. what do you think is the reason why the european institutional system - and this is my question - what is the reason why you think the european institutional system is still indebted to the precise definition of tax havens?
ladies and gentlemen, please report to the police. first of all, i want to thank you for your work. you did a great job. today, money laundering has become one of the most profitable and largest businesses in the world. there are laws, of course, and there will be new laws, but it's very difficult to keep track of the movements of the criminal syndicates. this is a very important and challenging task. i agree with the statement that foreign entities must comply with the requirements of the country in question regarding the transparency of information. i also agree that the business registers need to be improved so that we have information about the ultimate owner. this is not an easy task, and the member states have a lot of work to do here, and the european union itself, for that matter. if i can see the end goal, i think this could be a great tool.
in writing.– we welcome the approval of this second reading agreement on the prevention of the use of the financial system for the purposes of money laundering or terrorist financing. in our fight against organised crime, we must ensure that the transparency of the financial system will be a serious obstacle to financing criminal activities and terrorist operations. these rules improve the traceability of payments, so important in preventing and detecting money laundering and terrorist financing when transferring funds. they also regulate payment service providers to send information on the payer throughout the payment chain for the purposes of prevention, investigation and detection of money laundering and terrorist financing. we need to strengthen the eu’s repressive response to money laundering as well as harmonise criminal law for this offence. one effective way to fight terrorism is by cutting their sources of funding. we can achieve this by increasing transparency in financial transfers and strengthening the eu financial system.
on behalf of the ppe group. we are in the unique historical situation where the un is examining the european union to see whether it is properly implementing the un convention on the rights of persons with disabilities. the european commission sent its report to the un committee responsible last june, which was examined in april this year, and 45 new questions were formulated on the basis of it. this is called the "list of issues". the european commission will have to formally respond to this. i am firmly of the view that the european parliament, as the only democratically elected institution of the european union, the only member of the eu framework for monitoring the implementation of the un convention which is in line with the paris criteria, must not miss the opportunity to reply to the un commission itself. first of all, i would urge the three member states that have not yet ratified the un convention to do so as soon as possible. these countries are the netherlands, finland and ireland. and i urge the commission to do so as soon as possible... (excuse me, i'm sorry...) so those who have already ratified the un convention, and i urge those who have already ratified the un convention, including the european union, to implement the un convention as quickly as possible. finally, i urge the european commission to formally involve the european parliament in a constructive dialogue with the un and finally to produce the long-awaited european accessibility package.
in writing. i ask all my fellow members to support the motion of parliament on the application of the un convention on the rights of persons with disabilities. we must send a clear and overwhelming signal to our fellow disabled people that we will do everything possible to ensure that their rights are respected. i consider it of the utmost importance that the eu be able to give a full and credible account to the un committee on disabilities of how it is implementing the un convention on the rights of persons with disabilities. a strong call should be made to those member states which have not yet transposed the un convention on the rights of persons with disabilities into their national law. i also urge the commission to formally involve the members of parliament and the eu in a constructive dialogue with the un and to produce the long-awaited european accessibility legislation.
mr president, the situation in europe as a whole is serious as regards illegal immigration and asylum. it is not only serious in the southern countries where tragedies reach the threshold of media attention, but also in states where the population has not yet experienced this phenomenon on such a scale, such as hungary. today, it has the second highest number of immigrants per capita in the world after sweden, according to frontex data. it's increased by 20 percent in a few months, and most of them are not eligible for refugee protection, but are clearly economic migrants. illegal immigrants should therefore be distinguished from refugees eligible for asylum and from illegal economic immigrants. europe will not be able to deal with the growing migration crisis unless it makes this distinction with clear consequences at the policy and regulatory level. it is clear that in terms of refugee policy, moral considerations, international treaties, obligations are the starting point. the management of illegal economic migration should remain a member state competence.
in writing. first, we need to clarify the concepts to avoid political demagoguery. immigration and refugee issues are not directly linked. refugees should be recognised as persons who are persecuted in their country of origin or habitual residence, or who have a well-founded fear of persecution, on account of their race, nationality, membership of a particular social group, religion or political opinion. regardless of the economic status of the refugee. this is a matter of solidarity. neither the eu nor the member states have a choice on this issue: we must remain in solidarity with refugees and with member states facing disproportionate refugee pressures. this solidarity also prevents the criminalisation of refugees. throughout history, hundreds of thousands of hungarians have been accepted in all parts of the world, having fled from various regimes. they weren't treated like criminals either. the immigration issue is different in that the european union and its member states can decide whether to allow legal immigration from third countries into the eu. this issue, together with the demographic challenges facing europe, is indeed one of the most important issues of our time. but we must find solutions to this question together in europe, responsibly, on the basis of facts and not on the basis of the fears and prejudices of citizens. the so-called national consultation in hungary, which links immigration to terrorism and which raises politically driven, polarized questions. this is all the result of irresponsible politics.
in writing. the commission's proposal is an important step forward in the common european asylum and immigration policy. it recommends effective and rapid measures to save lives and to resolve the crisis caused by the refugee crisis affecting the mediterranean region in a humane manner. it initiates the distribution of refugees among member states and provides financial and technical assistance to the countries to which refugees arrive. the solutions developed will be available to all member states concerned, including hungary, at a later stage. it is crucial that the commission proposes to strengthen the common european asylum policy, to make legal migration possible, to exploit its economic benefits and to effectively integrate immigrants. one of the key issues for the future of europe is to give migrants a real chance to live their lives as equal european citizens. we need to create proper educational opportunities, employment programs, child care, and community opportunities. this kind of integration is in the common interest of all of us. this allows newcomers to europe to play a useful economic role, to be equal members of communities, and helps to prevent radicalisation and xenophobia. there are also public conditions for integration. any statement or action that arouses anti-migrant sentiment, especially if it comes from the leaders in charge, is poisoning the atmosphere, damaging europe and all the member states. instead of resentment, we need rational dialogue, instead of closure, we need solidarity and cooperation.
in writing.– solidarity lays at the foundation of the european union, including with those people who have been brought to europe with the recent influx of refugees. i believe the proposals tabled by the commission to deal with the issue duly reflect this solidarity, consequently i fully support the set of measures for resettlement and relocation drafted in the agenda on migration. efficient execution of the agenda requires full backing by all member states. one particular member state government, however, is challenging its bases, those of european values, solidarity and humanity. as we heard in this very part-session of parliament from hungarian prime minister mr orbán himself, his government insists on undermining current eu efforts by dealing with all migration and refugee issues under exclusive national competence, rejecting current and future migrants, thereby using arguments that smack of nationalist and populism. the most appalling aspect of his attack against the commission’s proposals is the fact that mr orbán launched this provocation purely to serve his internal political goals, to cover up recent corruption scandals his proxies were involved in. in response to such challenges from the council i urge parliament to use its full political weight to back the commission in this important effort.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of extending the protocol to the eu-south africa trade, development and cooperation agreement to croatia. croatia is a member of the european union, so all international treaties concluded by the eu apply to croatia. to do that, we need to take the necessary legal steps, and this is one of them.
in writing. ‒ in line with the position of the fidesz-kdnp group, i voted in favour of the adoption of the new anti-money laundering regulation, already agreed with the council, which now obliges member states for the first time to identify the beneficial owners of companies, other legal persons and asset managers in a central database. the new directive aims to combat money laundering, tax-related crime and the financing of terrorism. money laundering has become one of the most profitable and largest businesses in the world today. according to the imf, the volume of money laundering is equivalent to 2 to 5% of the combined gdp of all countries on earth. the initiatives now proposed will finally coordinate and integrate existing standards and create a more targeted and focused risk-based approach to combat money laundering more effectively across the eu. i believe that member states should be able to require foreign entities on their territory to report any suspicious activity to the financial intelligence unit in the member state concerned. the commission has also received comments from the czech authorities, which have not provided any information on the measures taken by the czech republic to comply with the requirements of article 3 of the regulation. unfortunately, the interconnection of registers is essential for the usability of this information due to the cross-border nature of business transactions and the interconnectedness of the internal market. therefore, the registers should be urgently linked and made available to the authorities and obliged entities.
in writing. ‒ in line with the position of the fidesz-kdnp group, i voted in favour of the adoption of the new money laundering regulation, already agreed with the council, which now obliges member states for the first time to identify the beneficial owners of companies, other legal persons and asset managers in a central database. the new directive aims to combat money laundering, tax-related crime and the financing of terrorism. money laundering has become one of the most profitable and largest businesses in the world today. according to the imf, the volume of money laundering is equivalent to 2 to 5% of the combined gdp of all countries on earth. the initiatives now proposed will finally coordinate and integrate existing standards and create a more targeted and focused risk-based approach to combat money laundering more effectively across the eu. i believe that member states should be able to require foreign entities on their territory to report any suspicious activity to the financial intelligence unit in the member state concerned. the commission has also received comments from the czech authorities, which have not provided any information on the measures taken by the czech republic to comply with the requirements of article 3 of the regulation. unfortunately, the interconnection of registers is essential for the usability of this information due to the cross-border nature of business transactions and the interconnectedness of the internal market. it is therefore urgently necessary to link the registers and make them available to the authorities and obliged entities.
in writing. in line with the position of the fidesz-kdnp group, i voted in favour of the adoption of the new anti-money laundering regulation, already agreed with the council, which now obliges member states for the first time to identify the beneficial owners of companies, other legal persons and asset managers in a central database. the new directive aims to combat money laundering, tax-related crime and the financing of terrorism. money laundering has become one of the most profitable and largest businesses in the world today. according to the imf, the volume of money laundering is equivalent to 2 to 5% of the combined gdp of all countries on earth. the initiatives now proposed will finally coordinate and integrate existing standards and create a more targeted and focused risk-based approach to combat money laundering more effectively across the eu. i believe that member states should be able to require foreign entities on their territory to report any suspicious activity to the financial intelligence unit in the member state concerned. the commission has also received comments from the czech authorities, which have not provided any information on the measures taken by the czech republic to comply with the requirements of article 3 of the regulation. unfortunately, the interconnection of registers is essential for the usability of this information due to the cross-border nature of business transactions and the interconnectedness of the internal market. it is therefore urgently necessary to link the registers and make them available to the authorities and obliged entities.
in writing. ‒ this is a very important issue, since all means must be used to combat the financing of criminal organisations and terrorist organisations. the purpose of the proposed legislation is therefore to ensure greater transparency of financial flows. the agreement reached with the council at second reading meets the objectives set out and i therefore voted in favour of approving the text of the agreement.
in writing. ‒ in line with the position of the fidesz-kdnp group, i voted in favour of the adoption of the new anti-money laundering regulation, already agreed with the council, which now obliges member states for the first time to identify the beneficial owners of companies, other legal persons and asset managers in a central database. the new directive aims to combat money laundering, tax-related crime and the financing of terrorism. money laundering has become one of the most profitable and largest businesses in the world today. according to the imf, the volume of money laundering is equivalent to 2 to 5% of the combined gdp of all countries on earth. the initiatives now proposed will finally coordinate and integrate existing standards and create a more targeted and focused risk-based approach to combat money laundering more effectively across the eu. i believe that member states should be able to require foreign entities on their territory to report any suspicious activity to the financial intelligence unit in the member state concerned. the commission has also received comments from the czech authorities, which have not provided any information on the measures taken by the czech republic to comply with the requirements of article 3 of the regulation. unfortunately, the interconnection of registers is essential for the usability of this information due to the cross-border nature of business transactions and the interconnectedness of the internal market. therefore, the registers should be urgently linked and made available to the authorities and to the obliged entities.
in writing. ‒ in line with the position of the fidesz-kdnp group, i voted in favour of the adoption of the new money laundering regulation, already agreed with the council, which now obliges member states for the first time to identify the beneficial owners of companies, other legal persons and asset managers in a central database. the new directive aims to combat money laundering, tax-related crime and the financing of terrorism. money laundering has become one of the most profitable and largest businesses in the world today. according to the imf, the volume of money laundering is equivalent to 2 to 5% of the combined gdp of all countries on earth. the initiatives now proposed will finally coordinate and integrate existing standards and create a more targeted and focused risk-based approach to combat money laundering more effectively across the eu. i believe that member states should be able to require foreign entities on their territory to report any suspicious activity to the financial intelligence unit in the member state concerned. the commission has also received comments from the czech authorities, which have not provided any information on the measures taken by the czech republic to comply with the requirements of article 3 of the regulation. unfortunately, the interconnection of registers is essential for the usability of this information due to the cross-border nature of business transactions and the interconnectedness of the internal market. it is therefore urgently necessary to link the registers and make them available to the authorities and obliged entities.
in writing. ‒ in line with the position of the fidesz-kdnp group, i voted in favour of the adoption of the new money laundering regulation, already agreed with the council, which now obliges member states for the first time to identify the beneficial owners of companies, other legal persons and asset managers in a central database. the new directive aims to combat money laundering, tax-related crime and the financing of terrorism. money laundering has become one of the most profitable and largest businesses in the world today. according to the imf, the volume of money laundering is between 2 and 5% of the combined gdp of all countries on earth. the initiatives now proposed will finally coordinate and integrate existing standards and create a more targeted and focused risk-based approach to combat money laundering more effectively across the eu. i believe that member states should be able to require foreign entities on their territory to report any suspicious activity to the financial intelligence unit in the member state concerned. the commission has also received comments from the czech authorities, which have not provided any information on the measures taken by the czech republic to comply with the requirements of article 3 of the regulation. unfortunately, the interconnection of registers is essential for the usability of this information due to the cross-border nature of business transactions and the interconnectedness of the internal market. it is therefore urgently necessary to link the registers and make them available to the authorities and obliged entities.
in writing. ‒ in line with the position of the fidesz-kdnp and epp group, i voted in favour of the adoption of the new money laundering regulation, already agreed with the council, which now obliges member states for the first time to identify the beneficial owners of companies, other legal persons and asset managers in a central database. the new directive aims to combat money laundering, tax-related crime and the financing of terrorism. money laundering has become one of the most profitable and largest businesses in the world today. according to the imf, the volume of money laundering is equivalent to 2 to 5% of the combined gdp of all countries on earth. the initiatives now proposed will finally coordinate and integrate existing standards and create a more targeted and focused risk-based approach to combat money laundering more effectively across the eu. i believe that member states should be able to require foreign entities on their territory to report any suspicious activity to the financial intelligence unit in the member state concerned. the commission has also received comments from the czech authorities, which have not provided any information on the measures taken by the czech republic to comply with the requirements of article 3 of the regulation. unfortunately, the interconnection of registers is essential for the usability of this information due to the cross-border nature of business transactions and the interconnectedness of the internal market. therefore, the registers should be urgently linked and made available to the authorities and obliged entities.
in writing. the fight against money laundering and terrorist financing is a natural consequence. but this proposal is a trojan horse, primarily a centralizing one, that takes away the powers of the nation-state. and it's not even addressing the root of the problem, because the path we're on is impassable, and this speculative financial system is unsustainable. it is time to return to the flawed pre-deregulation system and replace the free flow of capital that caused the economic crisis with controlled capital flows. the proposal in its present form is therefore unacceptable, as the current financial system, together with the above reforms, does not serve the interests of the wider social strata in the member states.
in writing. ‒ money laundering has become one of the most profitable and largest businesses in the world today. in line with the position of the fidesz-kdnp group, i voted in favour of the adoption of the new money laundering regulation, which has already been agreed with the council, and which now for the first time requires member states to identify the beneficial owners of companies, other legal persons and asset managers in a central database. the new directive aims to combat money laundering, tax-related crime and the financing of terrorism. unfortunately, the interconnection of registers is essential for the usability of this information due to the cross-border nature of business transactions and the interconnectedness of the internal market. foreign entities must comply with the requirements of the country in question regarding the transparency of information.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the adoption of the recommendation on the prevention of the use of financial systems for the purpose of money laundering or terrorist financing. i agree that in order to reduce the problem, targeted measures beyond criminal law are needed. i would also point out that the socialist and democratic group believes that much more effective measures are needed to eliminate tax havens in third countries, but i myself am firmly convinced that the existence of 'quasi-tax havens' and of secret and opaque tax agreements within the union's borders is unacceptable. the fight must be intensified in this area as well. i would also like to stress that this problem is closely linked to the issue of government corruption in some member states, which is also being legalised in some places by means of legislation. although the recommendation does not deal with this issue in detail, i believe that in the future we will have to pay more attention to this as it may also have a negative impact on the resources provided by the union.
in writing. ‒ this draft law aims to make it more difficult for criminal organisations and terrorist organisations to obtain funding . the obligation to provide new information makes money laundering more difficult. the agreement reached with the council at second reading meets the objectives set out and i therefore voted in favour of approving the text of the agreement.
in writing. ‒ in line with the position of the fidesz-kdnp group, i voted in favour of the adoption of the new money laundering regulation, already agreed with the council, which now obliges member states for the first time to identify the beneficial owners of companies, other legal persons and asset managers in a central database. the new directive aims to combat money laundering, tax-related crime and the financing of terrorism. money laundering has become one of the most profitable and largest businesses in the world today. according to the imf, the volume of money laundering is equivalent to 2 to 5% of the combined gdp of all countries on earth. the initiatives now proposed will finally coordinate and integrate existing standards and create a more targeted and focused risk-based approach to combat money laundering more effectively across the eu.
in writing. i consider the proposal already acceptable in the fight against money laundering and the financing of crime. this could indeed be done by complex monitoring of international transfers through the introduction of a system requiring banks and other payment service providers to provide the details of the payer and the payee binding on the transfer. however, care will be taken to respect the rights of the individual and to ensure that no additional charges are imposed on customers in this area.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of adopting the recommendation on data accompanying transfers of funds because i believe that the misuse of the principle of free movement of capital seriously harms our common interests and the european union. coordinated action at union level is needed to prevent money laundering and terrorist financing. making money transfers much more transparent is an important step towards this goal.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the adoption of the agreement with the council at second reading. the new legislation will contribute to a more efficient and simpler handling of cross-border insolvency proceedings, while keeping insolvency bodies within national jurisdiction.
in writing. many small businesses in the country have gone bankrupt because they could not access the income they were entitled to after working honestly. in many of its confused subcontracting chains, companies with interests in several countries were found. this regulation regulates insolvency proceedings involving several countries very well, and it clearly serves legal certainty, which is why i supported it wholeheartedly. it can be of great help to smes, which have been unable to take the costly and complex legal path.
in writing. ‒ given that the plenary did not fully share the principles of the hungarian people's party and the epp in its assessment of key issues, i had no choice but to abstain from the final vote in order to allow the dialogue to continue in the interinstitutional dialogue. mandating certification of origin at a later stage in the production chain would impose an excessive economic and administrative burden on european smes, while at the same time reinforcing control mechanisms in the countries of origin of minerals that contribute to a fair distribution of the resources of the system. i therefore aim to create a balanced regime that promotes sustainable development in countries of origin affected by armed conflict, without the economic effects of applying these rules being comparable to embargoes.
in writing. given that the plenary did not fully share the principles of the hungarian people's party and the epp in its assessment of the key issues, i had no choice but to abstain from the final vote in order to allow the dialogue to continue in the interinstitutional agreement. mandating certification of origin at a later stage in the production chain would impose an excessive economic and administrative burden on european smes, while at the same time reinforcing control mechanisms in the countries of origin of minerals that contribute to a fair distribution of the resources of the system. i therefore aim to create a balanced regime that promotes sustainable development in countries of origin affected by armed conflict, without the economic effects of applying these rules being comparable to embargoes.
in writing. ‒ i agree with the eu's efforts to tackle more effectively than at present the financing of armed groups operating in conflict zones, one of the forms of which is that these groups finance their activities through mining and trading of minerals. so we offer alternatives to the acquisition of major minerals, such as gold in the first place, but also tin, tantalum, tungsten, which are easy and legal ways to acquire these minerals. the proposed voluntary self-certification scheme can be a good tool for importers who decide to carry out this activity responsibly. with this legislation, the union is contributing to international efforts to address the problems of resource-rich countries exposed to armed conflict, such as those in the african great lakes region. in view of the above, i voted in favour of the draft legislation.
in writing. ‒ given that the plenary did not fully share the principles of the hungarian people's party and the epp in its assessment of key issues, i had no choice but to abstain from the final vote in order to allow the dialogue to continue in the interinstitutional dialogue. mandating certification of origin at a later stage in the production chain would impose an excessive economic and administrative burden on european smes, while at the same time reinforcing control mechanisms in the countries of origin of minerals that contribute to a fair distribution of the resources of the system. i therefore aim to create a balanced regime that promotes sustainable development in countries of origin affected by armed conflict, without the economic effects of applying these rules being comparable to embargoes.
in writing. ‒ given that the plenary did not fully share the principles of the hungarian people's party and the epp in its assessment of key issues, i had no choice but to abstain from the final vote in order to allow the dialogue to continue in the interinstitutional dialogue. mandating certification of origin at a later stage in the production chain would impose an excessive economic and administrative burden on european smes, while at the same time reinforcing control mechanisms in the countries of origin of minerals that contribute to a fair distribution of the resources of the system. i therefore aim to create a balanced regime that promotes sustainable development in countries of origin affected by armed conflict, without the economic effects of applying these rules being comparable to embargoes.
in writing. ‒ given that the plenary did not fully share the principles of the hungarian people's party and the epp in its assessment of key issues, i had no choice but to abstain from the final vote in order to allow the dialogue to continue in the interinstitutional dialogue. mandating certification of origin at a later stage in the production chain would impose an excessive economic and administrative burden on european smes, while at the same time reinforcing control mechanisms in the countries of origin of minerals that contribute to a fair distribution of the resources of the system. i therefore aim to create a balanced regime that promotes sustainable development in countries of origin affected by armed conflict, without the economic effects of applying these rules being comparable to embargoes.
in writing. ‒ mining and marketing of various ores and metals is one of the main sources of funding for conflicts of the war and civil war type in the world. these are usually mined under inhuman conditions, using slave, forced and child labour, with no regard for the rights and freedoms of workers, and with environmental destruction. the resources thus generated are, in a significant proportion of cases, used in an opaque way to maintain the repressive machinery of dictatorial regimes, to purchase weapons, to finance crime and terrorist activities. in my view, the fundamental values on which the european union is founded require us to do everything possible to combat this practice, to establish strict rules that promote ethical and responsible behaviour on this matter by european operators, while respecting the requirements of a market economy.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on self-certification for importers of minerals and metals from conflict-affected and high-risk areas. i agree that the mineral wealth in these areas while representing a huge development opportunity may be controversial if the revenues from them are used to fuel or sustain violent conflicts that undermine efforts towards development, good governance and the rule of law. in these areas, breaking the link between conflict and illegal mining is a critical element in guaranteeing peace, development and stability. the proposal highlights the sad fact that human rights abuses are widespread in the extractive industries, including child labour, sexual violence, enforced disappearances, forced evictions and the destruction of ritually or culturally significant sites. i therefore consider it important that parliament has today sent a strong signal to the european commission and the council to put an end to this phenomenon. the socialist and democratic group has unanimously supported the report, which is a step towards demonstrating that respect for human rights is more important than the economic interests of multinationals.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution on the exemption of cadmium used in lighting and display lighting applications and its amendment to adapt it to technical progress. the proposal states that the commission has provided a new, specific exemption for cadmium in a directive. they claim that it is already used in displays due to its low energy consumption, highlighting its positive effects and that quantum dots without cadmium are not technically feasible yet. on the contrary, i agree that there has been a significant development in the market and therefore cadmium-free quantum dots can be expected to have energy saving properties similar to those of cadmium quantum dots. it is also a fact that, based on the eco-label information, when comparing televisions of the same size, displays using cadmium-free quantum dots showed a lower energy consumption compared to cadmium quantum dots. the commission's justification for the exemption is therefore based on an outdated situation as regards the feasibility of replacing quantum dots containing cadmium. in order to resolve the conflicting situation, i support the request to the commission to repeal this delegated directive without delay.
in writing. ‒ the delegated act in question would have provided significant relief to bioethanol importers. under the guise of simplification, it would have abolished the quarterly reporting obligation and most of the procedural obligations relating to import licences for ethyl alcohol. consequently, a huge increase in ethanol imports would take place on the union market, which would lead to the bankruptcy of the hungarian bioethanol producers. this must be prevented, as bioethanol production provides a stable income for maize farmers and a significant amount of non-gmo and healthy feed, which is needed more than ever in the eu and hungary. this legislation would have given an advantage to the major bioethanol exporting countries over union producers. many of these countries are now in eu free trade negotiations, and i'll just mention ttip. beyond that, i have environmental concerns. bioethanol is produced from gm crops in the major ethanol exporting third countries. on the other hand, these places are cutting down rainforests and forcing farmers off their land to establish huge monocultures of maize, rapeseed or palm for bioethanol production. if large quantities of foreign bioethanol were allowed in, the eu would also contribute to the negative effects mentioned above. for these reasons, i voted in favour of a move which was also in line with the line of the european people's party of attacking the delegated act.
in writing. ‒ the delegated act in question would have provided significant relief to bioethanol importers. under the guise of simplification, it would have abolished the quarterly reporting obligation and most of the procedural obligations relating to import licences for ethyl alcohol. consequently, a huge increase in ethanol imports would take place on the union market, which would lead to the bankruptcy of the hungarian bioethanol producers. this must be prevented, as bioethanol production provides a stable income for maize farmers and a significant amount of non-gmo and healthy feed, which is needed more than ever in the eu and hungary. this legislation would have given an advantage to the major bioethanol exporting countries over union producers. the eu is currently negotiating free trade agreements with several of these countries. the elimination of duties and market access should be negotiated in free trade negotiations and not decided in a commission act. in addition to the above, environmental concerns are also raised. bioethanol is produced from gm crops in the major ethanol exporting third countries. on the other hand, these places are cutting down rainforests and forcing farmers off their land to establish huge monocultures of maize, rapeseed or palm for bioethanol production. if large quantities of foreign bioethanol were allowed in, the eu would also contribute to the negative effects mentioned above. for these reasons, and in line with the position of the fidesz-kdnp group, i supported the challenge of the delegated act.
in writing. the delegated act in question would have provided significant relief to bioethanol importers. under the guise of simplification, it would have abolished the quarterly reporting obligation and most of the procedural obligations relating to import licences for ethyl alcohol. consequently, there would be a huge increase in ethanol imports on the union market, which would lead to the bankruptcy of the hungarian bioethanol producers. this must be prevented, as bioethanol production provides a stable income for maize farmers and a significant amount of non-gmo and healthy feed, which is needed more than ever in the eu and hungary. this legislation would have given an advantage to the major bioethanol exporting countries over union producers. many of these countries are now in eu free trade negotiations, and i'll just mention ttip. the elimination of duties and market access should be negotiated in free trade negotiations and not decided in a commission act. beyond that, i have environmental concerns. bioethanol is produced from gm crops in major ethanol exporting third countries. on the other hand, these places are cutting down rain forests and driving farmers off their land to establish huge monocultures of maize, rapeseed, or palm for bioethanol production. if large quantities of foreign bioethanol were allowed in, the eu would also contribute to the negative effects mentioned above. for these reasons, i voted in favour of a move which was also in line with the line of the european people's party of attacking the delegated act.
in writing. ‒ the delegated act in question would have provided significant relief to bioethanol importers. it would have eliminated the quarterly reporting obligation and most of the procedural obligations relating to import licences for ethyl alcohol under the guise of simplification. consequently, a huge increase in ethanol imports would take place on the union market, which would lead to the bankruptcy of the hungarian bioethanol producers. this must be prevented, as bioethanol production provides a stable income for maize farmers and a significant amount of non-gmo and healthy feed, which is needed more than ever in the eu and hungary. this legislation would have given an advantage to the major bioethanol exporting countries over union producers. many of these countries are now in eu free trade negotiations, and i'll just mention ttip. the elimination of duties and market access should be negotiated in free trade negotiations and not decided in a commission act. beyond that, i have environmental concerns. bioethanol is produced from gm crops in the major ethanol exporting third countries. on the other hand, these areas are cutting down rain forests and forcing farmers off their land to establish huge monocultures of maize, rapeseed, or palm for bioethanol production. if large quantities of foreign bioethanol were allowed in, the eu would also contribute to the negative effects mentioned above. for these reasons, i voted in favour of challenging the delegated act.
in writing. ‒ the delegated act in question would have provided significant relief to bioethanol importers. under the guise of simplification, it would have abolished the quarterly reporting obligation and most of the procedural obligations relating to import licences for ethyl alcohol. consequently, a huge increase in ethanol imports would take place on the union market, which would lead to the bankruptcy of the hungarian bioethanol producers. this must be prevented, as bioethanol production provides a stable income for maize farmers and a significant amount of non-gmo and healthy feed, which is needed more than ever in the eu and hungary. this legislation would have given an advantage to the major bioethanol exporting countries over union producers. many of these countries are now in eu free trade negotiations, and i'll just mention ttip. the elimination of duties and market access should be negotiated in free trade negotiations and not decided in a commission act. beyond that, i have environmental concerns. bioethanol is produced from gm crops in the major ethanol exporting third countries. on the other hand, these places are cutting down rain forests and driving farmers off their land to establish huge monocultures of corn, canola, or palm for bioethanol production. if large quantities of foreign bioethanol were allowed in, the eu would also contribute to the negative effects mentioned above. for these reasons, i voted in favour of a move which was also in line with the line of the european people's party of attacking the delegated act.
in writing. ‒ the delegated act in question would have provided significant relief to bioethanol importers. under the guise of simplification, it would have abolished the quarterly reporting obligation and most of the procedural obligations relating to import licences for ethyl alcohol. consequently, a huge increase in ethanol imports would take place on the union market, which would lead to the bankruptcy of the hungarian bioethanol producers. this must be prevented, as bioethanol production provides a stable income for maize farmers and a significant amount of non-gmo and healthy feed, which is needed more than ever in the eu and hungary. this legislation would have given an advantage to the major bioethanol exporting countries over union producers. many of these countries are now in eu free trade negotiations, and i'll just mention ttip. the elimination of duties and market access should be negotiated in free trade negotiations and not decided in a commission act. beyond that, i have environmental concerns. bioethanol is produced from gm crops in the major ethanol exporting third countries. on the other hand, these places are cutting down rainforests and forcing farmers off their land to establish huge monocultures of maize, rapeseed or palm for bioethanol production. if large quantities of foreign bioethanol were allowed in, the eu would also contribute to the negative effects mentioned above. for these reasons, i voted in favour of a move which was also in line with the line of the european people's party of attacking the delegated act.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the obligation to present a licence for the import of ethyl alcohol of agricultural origin. i share the view that the monitoring of data on ethyl alcohol of agricultural origin provides both transparency and knowledge of the evolution of a market which is still unstable and which is facing strong competition, in particular from imports from third countries. the motion for a resolution also states that this information is extremely useful in the negotiation of international agreements and in anti-dumping investigations. such precise information is currently not available, which means that market participants, member states and the union institutions cannot be fully informed about the market situation.
in writing. ‒ in line with the position of the fidesz-kdnp group, i did not support the motion for a resolution on maternity leave, given that the determination of the allowance for maternity leave should remain a matter for the member states. we believe that this directive should primarily - as the existing directive - include measures to improve the health and safety of women at work, while better reconciliation of work and family life should be ensured through other directives, legislative instruments. it is necessary to develop a system which respects the logic and differences of the systems in each member state.
in writing. ‒ in line with the position of the fidesz-kdnp group, i did not support the motion for a resolution on maternity leave, given that the determination of the allowance for maternity leave should remain a matter for the member states. we believe that this directive should primarily - as the existing directive - include measures to improve the health and safety of women at work, while better reconciliation of work and family life should be ensured through other directives, legislative instruments. it is necessary to develop a system which respects the logic and differences of the systems in each member state.
in writing. in line with the position of the fidesz-kdnp group, i did not support the motion for a resolution on maternity leave, given that the determination of the allowance for maternity leave should remain a matter for the member states. we believe that this directive should primarily - as the existing directive - include measures to improve the health and safety of women at work, while better reconciliation of work and family life should be ensured through other directives, legislative instruments. it is necessary to develop a system which respects the logic and differences of the systems in each member state.
in writing. ‒ in line with the position of the fidesz-kdnp group, i did not support the motion for a resolution on maternity leave, given that the determination of the allowance for maternity leave should remain a matter for the member states. in my view, this directive should primarily - as in the case of the existing directive - include measures to improve the health and safety of women at work, while ensuring a better reconciliation of work and family life through other directives, legislative instruments. it is necessary to develop a system which respects the logic and differences of the systems in each member state.
in writing. ‒ in line with the position of the fidesz-kdnp group, i did not support the motion for a resolution on maternity leave, given that the determination of the allowance for maternity leave should remain a matter for the member states. we believe that this directive should primarily - as the existing directive - include measures to improve the health and safety of women at work, while better reconciliation of work and family life should be ensured through other directives, legislative instruments. it is necessary to develop a system which respects the logic and differences of the systems in each member state.
in writing. ‒ in line with the position of the fidesz-kdnp group, i did not support the motion for a resolution on maternity leave, given that the determination of the allowance for maternity leave should remain a matter for the member states. we believe that this directive should primarily - as the existing directive - include measures to improve the health and safety of women at work, while better reconciliation of work and family life should be ensured through other directives, legislative instruments. it is necessary to develop a system which respects the logic and differences of the systems in each member state.
in writing. ‒ in line with the position of the fidesz-kdnp group, i did not support the motion for a resolution on maternity leave, given that the determination of the allowance for maternity leave should remain a matter for the member states. we believe that this directive should primarily - as the existing directive - include measures to improve the health and safety of women at work, while better reconciliation of work and family life should be ensured through other directives, legislative instruments. it is necessary to develop a system which respects the logic and differences of the systems in each member state.
in writing. ‒ in line with the position of the fidesz-kdnp group, i abstained on the motion for a resolution on maternity leave, given that the determination of the allowance for maternity leave should remain a matter for the member states. we believe that this directive should primarily - as the existing directive - include measures to improve the health and safety of women at work, while better reconciliation of work and family life should be ensured through other directives, legislative instruments. it is necessary to develop a system which respects the logic and differences of the systems in each member state.
in writing. a manifestation of a people-centred european union is the resolution which aims to help adoptive parents to avoid losing their jobs and to better reconcile work and family life. the european parliament has finally taken a firm stand for the interests of its citizens, even taking a stand against the council. conscious adoption must be promoted by all means, because it is the key to europe's future.
in writing. ‒ ensuring equal opportunities for women and men and increasing the employment rate requires that we also act at european level to ensure that maternity leave is adequately and decently regulated in all member states. in my view, such a common european regulation would help to achieve a better balance between private life and work. i welcome the initiative to include paid paternity leave.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution on maternity leave, which sets out proposals on the principle of equal treatment between women and men. i am in favour of the european union not discriminating directly or indirectly between men and women, even on the basis of family responsibilities. i support the motion for a resolution calling for the development of a system of paternity leave with at least 10 days of paid leave in the framework of a separate directive and for further encouragement of legislative and other measures to enable men, particularly fathers, to exercise their right to work-life balance. i feel that these suggestions are vital to ensuring a healthy balance in family life.
mr president, the resolution adopted by a large majority today gives the un concrete answers about the measures taken by the european parliament in recent years. i would like to highlight a few specific references. the first is that the resolution calls on the three eu member states, finland, ireland and the netherlands, to ratify the un convention on the rights of persons with disabilities as soon as possible. the other specific reference is that it urges the european commission to involve the european parliament as soon as possible in the dialogue with the un commission so that we can conduct this dialogue together. the third is to urge the commission to adopt the european accessibility act as soon as possible. fourthly, to provide a separate budget for the eu framework for monitoring the implementation of the un convention, so that it can do its job effectively. i would like to point out that after the un has examined the european union and made its recommendations, the three european parliament committees, empl, libe and peti, will prepare a joint report on the process. finally, i would like to thank you, because i think it is symbolic that the factions have been able to work together and that such a transversal cooperation has been achieved.
in writing. a unique historic opportunity for the un to examine whether the eu is properly implementing the un convention on the rights of persons with disabilities. the european parliament must not miss the opportunity to respond to the un on its own behalf. this is what the resolution is about, giving concrete answers to the un about what the european parliament is doing for people with disabilities. the resolution calls on the three eu member states - finland, ireland and the netherlands - which have not yet ratified the convention to do so as soon as possible, and those which have already done so - including the eu itself - to speed up the implementation of the convention. we urge the european commission to formally involve parliament in a constructive dialogue with the un and to draw up the long-awaited european barriers code. the eu framework for monitoring the implementation of the convention, of which the ep is a member, needs funds to be able to operate effectively. it is important that following the un final report, the european parliament's empl, libe and peti committees will also produce a joint report on the subject, expected later this autumn. in line with the position of the fidesz-kdnp group, i voted in favour of the adoption of the motion because it promotes the effective implementation of the un convention.
in writing. ‒ a unique historic opportunity for the un to examine whether the eu is properly implementing the un convention on the rights of persons with disabilities. the european parliament must not miss the opportunity to respond to the un on its own behalf. the resolution is about this and gives concrete answers to the un on what the european parliament is doing for people with disabilities. the resolution calls on the three eu member states - finland, ireland and the netherlands - which have not yet ratified the convention to do so as soon as possible, and those that have already done so - including the eu itself - to speed up the implementation of the convention. we urge the european commission to formally involve parliament in a constructive dialogue with the un and to produce the long-awaited european accessibility legislation! the eu framework, which monitors the implementation of the convention and of which the ep is a member, needs funds to be able to operate effectively. in line with the position of the fidesz-kdnp group, i voted in favour of the adoption of the motion because it promotes the effective implementation of the un convention.
in writing. a unique historic opportunity for the un to examine whether the eu is properly implementing the un convention on the rights of persons with disabilities. the european parliament must not miss the opportunity to respond to the un on its own behalf. the resolution is about this and gives concrete answers to the un on what the european parliament is doing for people with disabilities. the resolution calls on the three eu member states - finland, ireland and the netherlands - which have not yet ratified the convention to do so as soon as possible, and on those which have already done so - including the eu itself - to speed up the implementation of the convention. we urge the european commission to formally involve parliament in a constructive dialogue with the un and to produce the long-awaited european accessibility legislation! the eu framework for monitoring the implementation of the convention, of which the ep is a member, needs funding to be able to operate effectively. it is important that following the un final report, the european parliament's empl, libe and peti committees will also produce a joint report on the subject, expected later this autumn. in line with the position of the fidesz-kdnp group, i voted in favour of the adoption of the motion because it promotes the effective implementation of the un convention.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the parliament's resolution on the application of the un convention on the rights of persons with disabilities. i am pleased that the european parliament's plenary voted overwhelmingly in favour of the report by my colleague adam kósa. it is essential that the eu can give a full and credible account to the un committee of experts on how it is implementing the un convention on the rights of persons with disabilities. a strong call should be made to member states that have not yet transposed the un convention on the rights of persons with disabilities into their national law. we also urge the commission to formally involve parliament and eu members in a constructive dialogue with the un and to create the long-awaited european accessibility legislation.
in writing. ‒ a unique historic opportunity for the un to examine whether the eu is properly implementing the un convention on the rights of persons with disabilities. the european parliament must not miss the opportunity to respond to the un on its own behalf. the resolution is about this and gives concrete answers to the un on what the european parliament is doing for people with disabilities. the resolution calls on the three eu member states - finland, ireland and the netherlands - which have not yet ratified the convention to do so as soon as possible, and those that have already done so - and thus the eu itself - to speed up the implementation of the convention. we urge the european commission to formally involve parliament in a constructive dialogue with the un and to produce the long-awaited european accessibility legislation! the eu framework for monitoring the implementation of the convention, of which the ep is a member, needs funds to function effectively. it is important that following the un final report, the european parliament's empl, libe and peti committees will also produce a joint report on the subject, expected later this autumn. in line with the position of the fidesz-kdnp group, i voted in favour of the adoption of the motion because it promotes the effective implementation of the un convention.
in writing. ‒ a unique historic opportunity for the un to examine whether the eu is properly implementing the un convention on the rights of persons with disabilities. the european parliament must not miss the opportunity to respond to the un on its own behalf. the resolution is about this and gives concrete answers to the un on what the european parliament is doing for people with disabilities. the resolution calls on the three eu member states - finland, ireland and the netherlands - which have not yet ratified the convention to do so as soon as possible, and those that have already done so - including the eu itself - to speed up the implementation of the convention. we urge the european commission to formally involve parliament in a constructive dialogue with the un and to produce the long-awaited european accessibility legislation! the eu framework, which monitors the implementation of the convention and of which the ep is a member, needs funds to be able to operate effectively. it is important that following the un final report, the european parliament's empl, libe and peti committees will also produce a joint report on the subject, expected later this autumn. in line with the position of the fidesz-kdnp group, i voted in favour of the adoption of the motion because it promotes the effective implementation of the un convention.
in writing. ‒ a unique historic opportunity for the un to examine whether the eu is properly implementing the un convention on the rights of persons with disabilities. the european parliament must not miss the opportunity to respond to the un on its own behalf. the resolution gives concrete answers to the un on what the european parliament is doing for people with disabilities. the resolution calls on the three eu member states - finland, ireland and the netherlands - which have not yet ratified the convention to do so as soon as possible. those that have already ratified the convention - including the eu itself - should speed up its implementation. we urge the european commission to formally involve parliament in a constructive dialogue with the un and to produce the long-awaited european accessibility legislation. the eu framework, which monitors the implementation of the convention and of which the ep is a member, needs funds to function effectively. it is important that following the un final report, the european parliament's empl, libe and peti committees will also produce a joint report on the subject, expected later this autumn. in line with the position of the fidesz-kdnp group, i voted in favour of the adoption of the motion because it promotes the effective implementation of the un convention.
in writing. ‒ a unique historic opportunity for the un to examine whether the eu is properly implementing the un convention on the rights of persons with disabilities. the european parliament must not miss the opportunity to respond to the un on its own behalf. this is what the resolution is about, giving concrete answers to the un about what the european parliament is doing for people with disabilities. the resolution calls on the three eu member states - finland, ireland and the netherlands - which have not yet ratified the convention to do so as soon as possible, and those that have already done so - and thus the eu itself - to speed up the implementation of the convention. we urge the european commission to formally involve parliament in a constructive dialogue with the un and to produce the long-awaited european accessibility legislation! the eu framework for monitoring the implementation of the convention, of which the ep is a member, needs funds to function effectively. it is important that following the un final report, the european parliament's empl, libe and peti committees will also produce a joint report on the subject, expected later this autumn. in line with the position of the fidesz-kdnp group, i voted in favour of the adoption of the motion because it promotes the effective implementation of the un convention.
in writing. unfortunately, experience shows that the people concerned feel that there are few results from similar resolutions, and that it is time to change this. the more effective approach, the renewed, more people-centred approach, is welcome. i supported the recommendation, confident that a more efficient use of resources would have a chance of improving the rights of people with disabilities. the fact is that there is still a lot to be done in the eu.
in writing. ‒ 80 million europeans with disabilities are equal citizens of the union, yet according to available data, they do not enjoy equal rights and opportunities in most member states. i believe that a broad dialogue between ngos, the eu institutions and the member states on the necessary measures, including a strong accessibility package and improving educational and employment opportunities, is key. i find it extremely regrettable that there is still no directive prohibiting discrimination against people with disabilities, guaranteeing equal access to social protection, health care, education, housing and services. the adoption of this must be one of the most important tasks of the european institutional system in the period ahead.
in writing. ‒ the un committee on the review of the un convention on the rights of persons with disabilities (crpd) is preparing a report on the european union, examining how the eu is transposing the un convention into practice. the european commission is preparing a response to the un's questions, but it is important that the european parliament also stresses the importance of the issue. the resolution urges the eu to take stronger action on behalf of people with disabilities. it also highlights the acceleration of the ratification of the crpd as an important objective. the resolution also calls on the european commission to respond to the european parliament's position by involving it more strongly in the dialogue with the un. in accordance with the objectives set out above, i voted in favour of the adoption of the resolution.
in writing. ‒ a unique historic opportunity for the un to examine whether the eu is properly implementing the un convention on the rights of persons with disabilities. the european parliament must not miss the opportunity to respond to the un on its own behalf. the resolution is about this and gives concrete answers to the un on what the european parliament is doing for people with disabilities. in line with the position of the fidesz-kdnp group, i voted in favour of the adoption of the motion because it promotes the effective implementation of the un convention.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution on the un convention on the rights of persons with disabilities, as i agree that persons with disabilities have the same rights as non-disabled citizens, that their dignity is inalienable and that they are entitled to equal treatment, to independent living and to full participation in society. i believe that people with disabilities are one of the most vulnerable groups in our society and that their integration into the labour market is one of the greatest challenges for social and labour market policy. i support encouraging those member states which have not yet ratified the convention on the rights of persons with disabilities to do so without delay. i consider it important to develop an ambitious proposal for a european accessibility pact and to ensure that people with disabilities are fully involved at all stages of the legislative cycle. i support accessibility not just in the physical sense, but in the sense that public services should be accessible. i believe that the motion gives a comprehensive picture of the problems that exist and that a comprehensive legislative work must be launched to solve them.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the parliament resolution calling for a stronger and more effective joint action against xylella fastidiosa. on the one hand, the commission should ensure that sufficient financial and human resources are available to implement strategies against this pest. producers should receive adequate financial support for the application of good agricultural practices which are crucial for the control of xylella fastidiosa. it is also necessary to provide union compensation to farmers who have suffered damage as a result of the felling of olive trees. finally, appropriate resources should be allocated to research on xylella fastidiosa and other harmful plant pests. horizon 2020 should be allocated to such cases, among others.
in writing. it is now the turn of the olive trees and the recommendation offers an effective package of solutions to this end, and is therefore worthy of support. but looking ahead, we need to think about the roots of similar problems that arise from time to time, legitimately, and the broader context of the problem. the eu's agricultural model is monocultural in nature, posing a major threat to the stability of agro-ecological systems due to its harmful impact on biodiversity. global free trade in goods, which is the basis for the spread of pathogens.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution on the outbreak of xylella fastidiosa in olive trees, as it calls for a solution to a highly dangerous infection that poses an immediate threat. it is important to note that in addition to the oil trees mentioned in the title, the pathogen poses a risk to almond and peach trees and ornamental plants. the proposal draws attention to the fact that, depending on the type of bacterium, it poses a potential threat to vines, citrus and other crops and can cause damage of unprecedented scale and devastation with dramatic economic, environmental and social consequences. in this sense, it is not only dangerous for the southern european production regions. i agree that such an infection causes serious economic damage, not only to producers but also to the entire production chain (including cooperative and privately owned plants), tourism and distributors. one element of addressing the emerging threat is to prevent the import of infected products into the union through targeted measures, including, where necessary, the imposition of more stringent measures. i am confident that the eu will find a solution to stop the infection, but i believe that this requires a faster response to eradicate this type of infection. in this respect, i agree with the proposal in the motion to review the implementation of the eu's official plant health control system.
it's a two-card draw. mr. deputy, you said in your speech that your group was quite divided on the question of turkey. could you give me a concrete example of where you see a fault line in one or two of the most important issues? what are these?
madam president, turkey has declared its intention to join the union and has shown its willingness to introduce effective reforms, to establish good neighbourly relations and to adopt the necessary international standards. however, the country still fails to guarantee freedom of speech and the press, there is no legal framework to combat corruption, the separation of powers and the independence of the judiciary leave much to be desired, and turkey's neighbourhood relations are very tense. turkey has a strategic role to play in the eastern and southern european neighbourhood policy, particularly in the fight against terrorism in syria and iraq. it also plays an important role in european energy security. in view of these considerations, it is necessary to continue to cooperate with it. however, the euro-turkish dialogue must remain based on values. we can rightly expect turkey to fulfil its own commitments to guarantee fundamental human rights, to refrain from any action that has a detrimental impact on neighbourly relations, to settle its relations with greece and cyprus and to normalise its relations with armenia. a century after the armenian genocide, this step can no longer be delayed.
i have received a motion for a resolution tabled in accordance with rule 123 (2) of the rules of procedure. i'll close this discussion. the vote will take place on thursday 21 may 2015. the commission shall be assisted by the committee established by article 15 of regulation (eu) no 182/2011.
the following point is inserted after point 2 of the annex to the eea agreement:
on behalf of the verts/ale group.– mr president, we in the green group, are in full agreement with all our colleagues who say that the situation in macedonia is serious and even fraught with further danger. while the crisis is obviously regional in its origin and it is fundamentally an internal macedonian political crisis, it is not entirely surprising that a country waiting for 10 years for the start of the accession negotiations may lose its political balance. actually, macedonia has become the prince of wales of european accession: it has been waiting for the start for a decade by now. although we generally support the new greek government in breaking with the policies of its predecessors and we welcome its anti-austerity programmes, we think that there is now a very important opportunity for this new greek government to break with the past and revise their policies vis-à-vis macedonia. i commend the efforts of our three colleagues in bringing the macedonian political leaders to the negotiating table. however, we believe that the promise to continue the talks is not enough now. the government of macedonia should immediately initiate fully transparent and impartial investigations both into the kumanovo tragedy and the allegations in the wire-tapping crisis. if they feel unable to do that, they should step down and someone else should do it. we believe there is much to be built upon in macedonian politics, but this building needs to be done right now. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8))
blue-card answer. – yes, we are in full agreement, except that there are no negotiations going on for the accession of macedonia for the time being, precisely because greece is blocking them.
it's a two-card draw. while i agree with a lot of what you said, congressman, i have a serious problem here. i ask you whether you think it is appropriate, do you think it is appropriate, to unilaterally shift the responsibility onto macedonia, while the european institutions have completely undermined the prospects for enlargement of this country - and other countries - or the credibility of this country. i think there are at least two parties to this case. the balkans have always been a powder keg, here europe cannot say, "oh, my god, you are the bad guys and we are the good guys!" no, no, no. i'm not going to. i ask you, do you see the situation as one-sided?
on behalf of the verts/ale group.– madam president, if there is one policy amongst our common external policies that is in desperate need of a review, it is our neighbourhood policy and more specifically, the eastern partnership. compared to its original aims and admissions, it is far from an unqualified success. therefore our group has welcomed the review process initiated by commissioner hahn and the work on its broad conclusions as well – so far. differentiation, which is the core word of this review, is reasonable and probably unavoidable in the eastern partnership. nevertheless, we should not forget that three of the partnership countries signed an association agreement with us and under the dcftas, they are aligning their economies with that of the european union. they should be offered primarily a credible european perspective, and we should help them in the short and the medium term to offset the social costs which are associated with that economic alignment. the more-for-more principle of neighbourhood policies in general makes sense only if it also implies a less-for-less policy. we believe it would be right and proper to increase the more-for-more financial allocations which are currently at 20 % and direct them towards the associated countries. in order to be credible, the european neighbourhood policy requires proper financial support. the eur 2 billion allocated yearly both to southern and eastern neighbours allows neither a credible commitment nor an ambitious policy. we think we should certainly revisit that number in the forthcoming mid-term review. so in short, we need a credible commitment to our partners, both in the south and in the east.
the eastern partnership, madam president, could be the appropriate framework for the eu to develop good political and economic relations with the six former soviet republics. but the level of cooperation cannot be increased by force. having a government committed to the eu does not mean that a country is ready for an association agreement. the case of ukraine is proof of this. one of the first measures taken by the political forces that came to power with the support of the us was to restrict the use of minority languages. the rampant corruption, the rule of oligarchs, the state legalization of extremist armed groups are all contrary to what we consider to be european values. and we also have to accept that there are countries that are approaching the eu and they don't want to give up their relationship with russia. let's not force them to choose.
the president, the commission and the representative of the council, also on behalf of the hr, have all made encouraging statements on what should be one of the most important outcomes of the riga summit, namely that the european union should regain its role of initiator and leader in our most important and uncertain neighbourhood. but in the process, let us note the elephant in the room. our largest partner in the eastern partnership, ukraine, has been hit by external aggression, is at war, and is being subjected to similar aggressive russian power-seeking in several other countries in the region. in this situation, the eu must therefore be offered a credible and attractive democratic european alternative. it is precisely for the sake of credibility that the union must not face a crisis along its borders politically unprepared or that some large member states take over the community's role in resolving critical situations. i therefore ask and encourage the high representative and the commission to take up this responsibility in the full unity of the eu.
madam president, the annexation of crimea and the crisis of the war between russia and ukraine have created a completely new geopolitical situation for the eastern partnership countries. the eastern partnership summit in riga will now take place in this highly complex and challenging framework. the meeting, therefore, in these radically changed and unfavourable circumstances, should send a message of encouragement and reassurance to our mutually shared partners, in particular to ukraine, moldova and georgia, which signed the european association agreement last year. in order to avoid war and ensure security in the region, the union must first of all find a political solution to the russia-ukraine and russia-europe crises. it should, however, ensure its eastern partners further committed support, offering them a credible roadmap and a vision for their further european accession.
in writing. i regard the eastern partnership summit in riga on 21-22 may as one of the most important events in recent times for the eu's eastern neighbours, where the main focus of the negotiating parties will be on promoting state-building and the rule of law, exploring new market opportunities, discussing energy security, mobility and strengthening civil society relations. as vice-president of euronest, i asked the summit participants to include in their message the important issues affecting the eastern partnership country that has suffered the most in the past year, ukraine. i asked for a speedy implementation of reforms in ukraine, in particular with regard to decentralisation and minority rights, and for ukraine to guarantee and respect the fundamental and equal human and political rights of all nationalities living in the country. i believe that discussing these issues and resolving them as soon as possible will help ukraine to emerge from the deep economic and social crisis. i also drew attention to the importance of cross-border and cross-border cooperation and joint projects, which help to develop a closer relationship between the european union and its eastern partners.
in writing. - mr president, i have to go. a year and a half ago, the eastern partnership summit was the beginning of the maidan square protests, during which ukraine made it clear that it belonged to europe instead of the east, that it chose western civic development instead of the authoritarian past. since russia's military annexation of crimea, it has been actively destabilising eastern ukraine. at the current summit in riga, europe must respond decisively to the russian threat. the new financial assistance to ukraine and the entry into force of the association and free trade agreements point in this direction. the eu must provide the eastern partnership with adequate political and economic resources to counterbalance the partner countries' actions against russian sanctions. preventing further violence and ensuring political and economic stability in ukraine are key interests of the eu. we cannot let ukraine down after we have dragged the honeymoon of eu accession before it. however, the eu cannot compromise on its principles in relation to ukraine: the independence of the ukrainian judiciary, the solid rule of law, democratic principles and the fight against corruption are not negotiable. it is important, however, that if the eu cannot enforce respect for values internally, how can we expect it to demand this externally, from the eastern partnership countries? that is why it is important for the union to know what is happening in its own member states, for example in hungary.
it's a two-card draw. yes, i think what you think, that quality jobs are needed, but do you see any kind of control, evaluation system that can really guarantee that when governments spend money, they don't just provide some kind of "alibi" jobs, they don't just spend money in general, they don't just improve statistics, but they actually provide real, verifiable help to young people?
the first point is the commission's statement on growth rates in the eu and the spring 2015 economic forecasts (2015/2705 ((rsp)).
we've made some very important progress, and we have some very good forecasts. of course, there are also signs to look out for and problems to deal with. i now turn to the group leaders.
it's a two-card draw. in view of your optimistic words, i must ask you whether you think it is appropriate for the european statistical system to consider as a worker, as an employed worker, a person who has fled a country for economic reasons, for example from spain to south america, from hungary to england, etc. are you above these numbers?
mr. flanagan, please stop your screaming. this is not the place for you to shout. it's a different culture here, so please adapt. i did not give you the floor to interrupt mr reul later. he has honored you, so do you. please keep that in mind in the future.
i'll close this discussion. the commission shall be assisted by the committee established by article 15 of regulation (eu) no 182/2011.
the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's commitments under the paris agreement and will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's commitments under the paris agreement.
on behalf of the verts/ale group madam president, commission president juncker, when you took office, you started with a very impressive announcement. he said the new commission wants to be big on big things and small on small things. i was skeptical of that statement even then. i think you can't build big things without paying attention to the little ones. in the present situation, when it comes to financing acer, we are faced with exactly this problem again. the union is doing great things: it is announcing the energy union, it is appointing a special vice-president, the commission is adopting a strategy for the energy union, in the person of maroš šefčovič, and for energy security. it also gives acer itself tasks which go far beyond those it has been carrying out so far, and when it comes to the little things, when it comes to the practice of creating the necessary conditions and providing the necessary resources, the commission's attention somehow disappears. this is a very important issue. acer is the guarantee that the big plans that the commission is promoting for the energy union, for the unification and interconnection of the european energy market, can be put into practice. and it's not just about the energy market. in general, the issue of trust in the eu institutions is what we have to face. if the commission places tasks on one of its institutions and does not provide the necessary resources to enable the institution to carry them out properly and fully, it is encoding into the system that the institution will go bankrupt, and sooner or later consumers - whether they are retail consumers or market players - will experience this firsthand. and what will they conclude from this? they will deduce that the institutions of the union are not functional, that they are not able to do their job. if we want european voters and energy market players to have confidence in the european institutions, it is therefore essential that we provide the resources to do so. and when we talk about consumers, we must also bear in mind that acer's task is, among other things, to eliminate market distortions that necessarily mean higher energy prices for consumers. is the commission determined to do everything possible to ensure that european consumers have access to energy at the lowest possible price, by enforcing competition on the market, or not? my final question to the commission is whether it is committed to providing the necessary resources for acer to operate this year or at the latest in its 2016 budget.
i'll close this discussion. the commission shall be assisted by the committee established by article 15 of regulation (eu) no 182/2011.
madam president, i have to go. the next item is the debate on cases of breaches of human rights, democracy and the rule of law one hour maximum (rule 135) the following point is from the zimbabwe human rights defender case of itai dzamara (2015/2710 ((rsp))
in writing. ‒ the european security environment has changed significantly in recent times. new challenges have emerged to which the common security and defence policy must respond. all of this requires strengthening the european security and defence policy. in this context, the report urges the development of a common european strategy to respond appropriately to these new challenges. the report calls for closer cooperation between member states in the fight against terrorism, organised crime, cyber security and migration. it also called on the council to encourage member states to increase their defence spending, a significant part of which should be concentrated on crisis management. in accordance with the above objectives, and following the line of the people's party, i voted in favour of the adoption of the report.
in writing. ‒ the european security environment has changed significantly in recent times. new challenges have emerged to which the cfpb must also respond. all of this requires strengthening the european security and defence policy. in this context, the report urges the development of a common european strategy to respond appropriately to these new challenges. the report calls for closer cooperation between member states in the fight against terrorism, organised crime, cyber security and migration. it also called on the council to encourage member states to increase their defence spending, a significant part of which should be concentrated on crisis management. in accordance with the above objectives, and following the line of the people's party, i voted in favour of the adoption of the report.
in writing. the european security environment has changed significantly in recent times. new challenges have emerged to which the cfpb must also respond. all of this requires strengthening the european security and defence policy. in this regard, the report urges the development of a common european strategy to respond to these new challenges. the report calls for closer cooperation between member states in the fight against terrorism, organised crime, cybersecurity and migration. it also called on the council to encourage member states to increase their defence spending, a significant part of which should be concentrated on crisis management. in accordance with the above objectives, and following the line of the people's party, i voted in favour of the adoption of the report.
in writing. ‒ the european security environment has changed significantly in recent times. new challenges have emerged to which the common security and defence policy must also respond. all of this requires strengthening the european security and defence policy. in this context, the report urges the development of a common european strategy to respond appropriately to these new challenges. the report calls for closer cooperation between member states in the fight against terrorism, organised crime, cybersecurity and migration. it also called on the council to encourage member states to increase their defence spending, a significant part of which should be concentrated on crisis management. in accordance with the above objectives, and following the line of the people's party, i voted in favour of the adoption of the report.
in writing. ‒ the european security environment has changed significantly in recent times. new challenges have emerged to which the cfpb must also respond. all of this requires strengthening the european security and defence policy. in this context, the report urges the development of a common european strategy to respond appropriately to these new challenges. the report calls for closer cooperation between member states in the fight against terrorism, organised crime, cybersecurity and migration. it also called on the council to encourage member states to increase their defence spending, a significant part of which should be concentrated on crisis management. in accordance with the above objectives, and following the line of the people's party, i voted in favour of the adoption of the report.
in writing. ‒ the european security environment has changed significantly in recent times. new challenges have arisen to which the european union must respond in a meaningful way. all of this requires strengthening the european security and defence policy. in this context, the report urges the development of a common european strategy to respond appropriately to these new challenges. the report calls for closer cooperation between member states in the fight against terrorism, organised crime, cybersecurity and migration. it also called on the council to encourage member states to increase their defence spending, a significant part of which should be concentrated on crisis management. in accordance with the above objectives, and following the people's party, i voted in favour of the adoption of the report.
in writing. ‒ the european security environment has changed significantly in recent times. new challenges have emerged to which the cfpb must also respond. all of this requires strengthening the european security and defence policy. in this regard, the report urges the development of a common european strategy to respond to these new challenges. the report calls for closer cooperation between member states in the fight against terrorism, organised crime, cybersecurity and migration. it also called on the council to encourage member states to increase their defence spending, a significant part of which should be concentrated on crisis management. in accordance with the above objectives, and following the line of the people's party, i voted in favour of the adoption of the report.
in writing. the world seems to be going badly, with forces fomenting and sustaining more and more armed conflicts. they want to drag europe into an arms race. we must not get involved in this, we must find the political and economic means to enforce respect for international law and the un charter. this is demonstrated by the situation in libya, which has been in chaos ever since, as a result of the armed intervention of eu member states. the eu and nato must be kept strictly separate. the report is not in the interest of the majority of european citizens and therefore cannot be supported.
in writing. ‒ the importance of a common european defence policy is growing amid growing international risks. the terrorist threat and the aggressive russian ambitions justify the strengthening of the common policy. in my view, the possibility of common defence action increases the security of the member states and of european citizens, contributes to the avoidance of conflicts and to the deterrence of potential aggressors.
in writing. ‒ the european security environment has changed significantly in recent times. new challenges have emerged to which the cfpb must also respond. all of this requires strengthening the european security and defence policy. in this context, the report urges the development of a common european strategy to respond appropriately to these new challenges. the report calls for closer cooperation between member states in the fight against terrorism, organised crime, cybersecurity and migration. it also called on the council to encourage member states to increase their defence spending, a significant part of which should be concentrated on crisis management. in accordance with the above objectives, and following the line of the people's party, i voted in favour of the adoption of the report.
in writing. ‒ i supported the adoption of the report because i agree with its assessment of the strong but well-founded criticism of the achievements of the common defence and security policy so far. the key question for the future of the european union is how we respond to the new security challenges that the report highlights, particularly in ukraine and the mediterranean. i share the concerns that the implementation of the 2013 eit defence policy decisions is deficient, lagging behind in practice, with serious shortcomings in the functioning and financing of csdp missions, while the union's security policy environment has become more risky than ever. for my part, i particularly welcome the fact that the report gives the high representative a prominent role in the much more effective and coordinated implementation of the csdp and recommends strengthening her mandate and steering powers in this regard. in considering the merits of the report, i also considered it important that the authors advocate the development of a specific eu strategy to address new types of security challenges.
in writing. ‒ the report aims to express the european parliament's concern that the funding of the common security and defence policy has been reduced in terms of the amount of resources available. the report urges the development of a more flexible and coherent funding system. it also identifies a number of problems to be solved, such as duplication, lack of transparency, lack of flexibility in the different procedural rules and mechanisms. furthermore, the lack of transparency of financial instruments for missions and operations. the report highlights the objective of cost-effectiveness and efficiency. it shall also initiate the reform of the athena mechanism and the military operations of the csdp. i agree with the above objectives and, in line with the position of the ppe group, i voted in favour of the adoption of the report.
in writing. ‒ the report aims to express the european parliament's concern that the funding of the cfsp has been reduced in terms of the amount of resources available. the report urges the development of a more flexible and coherent funding system. it also identifies a number of problems to be solved, such as duplication, lack of transparency, lack of flexibility in the different procedural rules and mechanisms. furthermore, the lack of transparency of financial instruments for missions and operations. the report highlights the objective of cost-effectiveness and efficiency. it shall also initiate the reform of the athena mechanism and the military operations of the csdp. i agree with the above objectives and, in line with the position of the ppe group, i voted in favour of the adoption of the report.
in writing. the report aims to express the european parliament's concern that the funding of the cfp has been reduced in the amount of resources available. the report urges the development of a more flexible and coherent funding system. it also identifies a number of problems to be solved, such as duplication, lack of transparency, lack of flexibility in the different procedural rules and mechanisms. furthermore, the lack of transparency of financial instruments for missions and operations. the report highlights the objective of cost-effectiveness and efficiency. it shall also initiate the reform of the athena mechanism and the military operations of the csdp. i agree with the objectives set out above and have therefore voted in favour of the adoption of the report, in line with the position of the ppe group.
in writing. ‒ the report aims to express the european parliament's concern that the funding of the common security and defence policy has been reduced in terms of the amount of resources available. the report urges the development of a more flexible and coherent funding system. it also identifies a number of problems to be solved, such as duplication, lack of transparency, lack of flexibility in the different procedural rules and mechanisms. furthermore, the lack of transparency of financial instruments for missions and operations. the report highlights the objective of cost-effectiveness and efficiency. it also initiates the reform of the athena mechanism and of military operations under the common security and defence policy. i agree with the objectives set out above and, in line with the position of the group of the european people's party, i have voted in favour of the adoption of the report.
in writing. ‒ the report aims to express the european parliament's concern that the funding of the cfsp has been reduced in terms of the amount of resources available. the report urges the development of a more flexible and coherent funding system. it also identifies a number of problems to be solved, such as duplication, lack of transparency, lack of flexibility in the different procedural rules and mechanisms. furthermore, the lack of transparency of financial instruments for missions and operations. the report highlights the objective of cost-effectiveness and efficiency. it shall also initiate the reform of the athena mechanism and the military operations of the csdp. i agree with the above objectives and, in line with the position of the ppe group, i voted in favour of the adoption of the report.
in writing. ‒ the report aims to express the european parliament's concern that the funding of the common security and defence policy has been reduced in terms of the amount of resources available. the document calls for a more flexible and coherent system of financing. it also identifies the range of problems to be addressed, such as duplication, lack of transparency, lack of flexibility in the different procedural rules and mechanisms. it also points to the lack of transparency of financial instruments for missions and operations. the report highlights the objective of cost-effectiveness and efficiency. it also initiates the reform of the athena mechanism and of military operations under the common security and defence policy. i agree with the objectives set out above and have therefore voted in favour of the adoption of the report, in line with the position of the ppe group.
in writing. ‒ the report aims to express the european parliament's concern that the funding of the cfsp has been reduced in terms of the amount of resources available. the report urges the development of a more flexible and coherent funding system. it also identifies a number of problems to be solved, such as duplication, lack of transparency, lack of flexibility in the different procedural rules and mechanisms. furthermore, the lack of transparency of financial instruments for missions and operations. the report highlights the objective of cost-effectiveness and efficiency. it shall also initiate the reform of the athena mechanism and the military operations of the csdp. i agree with the objectives set out above and have therefore voted in favour of the adoption of the report, in line with the position of the ppe group.
in writing. please note that, in accordance with article 41 (2) of the treaty on european union, expenditure arising from military or defence-related actions shall not be charged to the budget of the union. full parliamentary control over funding should therefore be strengthened and a strict separation of civilian and military missions should be established. the proposal cannot be supported because taxpayers' money cannot be spent on purposes that are opaque, prohibited and uncontrollable.
in writing. ‒ the report aims to express the european parliament's concern that the funding of the cfsp has been reduced in terms of the amount of resources available. the report urges the development of a more flexible and coherent funding system. it also identifies a number of problems to be solved, such as duplication, lack of transparency, lack of flexibility in the different procedural rules and mechanisms. furthermore, the lack of transparency of financial instruments for missions and operations. the report highlights the objective of cost-effectiveness and efficiency. it shall also initiate the reform of the athena mechanism and the military operations of the csdp.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the adoption of the report, given that it provides in-depth analysis and data to support the shortcomings in the funding of the eu's common security and defence policy, while also indicating areas and directions for possible corrections. i agree that the high representative for foreign affairs and security policy should in future have a central and strengthened role in developing and ensuring coherence and complementarity with the eu's external relations ambitions and other policies, which are essential for effective functioning, as well as in supporting the union's common defence efforts in the implementation of the cfsp as a whole. the authors point out the potential for savings and cost-effectiveness in creating synergies between military and civilian assets, which was of great importance in my decision. equally important, i consider that csdp is a good way forward in line with the view of the authors of the report to ensure that the requirements of transparency and accountability are applied more consistently, in particular in the light of the experience of the organisational and financial deficiencies and errors identified in the implementation of joint military operations in the context of athene.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of mrs gomes' report, as i consider it very important that member states finally implement the directive on defence procurement in full and in practice, as only by reducing the diversity of public procurement rules in the defence sector can we sufficiently strengthen the single internal market. i myself regret that past efforts to unify demand have not improved the situation of fragmented demand, so that the rearrangement of priorities is one of our main tasks. i believe that a european defence review process should be launched and that in the future there should be coordination of national defence planning processes at eu level.
in writing. the eu defence industry is taking a significant slice of one of the world's largest and dirtiest businesses. while the report is hypocritically talking about protection and security, it is actually providing a tool for the relentless, permanent wars that are taking place on our planet. moreover, the material supports a line against the europe of nations, which is contrary to the original idea of the eu, to the interests of our citizens and to my own position.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report, which adds essential elements to the two other reports discussed and adopted by the european parliament on the implementation and financing of the common european security and defence policy. i am personally concerned that the prospect of a decline in defence spending in some member states and a lack of coordination between member states could jeopardise european autonomy in the acquisition of military equipment and thus defence capabilities. this is particularly true in the current period of proliferating armed conflicts, hybrid wars, which are fraught with new challenges. i therefore support the approach of the report to seek answers to the supply and financing constraints caused by budget deficits in the member states through the instruments of closer cooperation and coordination within the european union. i also attach great importance to the call in the report to ensure that the highest possible level of transparency is maintained in public procurement in the field of military equipment.
in writing. leaders of the international community took the important and courageous decision last year to exclude the russian president from the discussion of global issues, following the aggression against ukraine and the illegal annexation of crimea. the decision reaffirmed the primacy of democratic values in international relations, of which the eu as a community is today the most consistent representative. i think it is important that this should be confirmed at the g7 meeting in june, particularly with regard to energy security, another issue which, in addition to ukraine, is of major concern to europe and which determines russia's international role. the energy union, which is being developed as a result of the commission's package of proposals and which enjoys strong support in this parliament, will make the eu a leading global player in energy efficiency and security. i think it is important that the president of the european council and the president of the commission, at schloss elmau, should also set an example and set a global benchmark with this ambition, and that they should have convincing political support to do so. at a time when some members of the european council - above all the hungarian government - are making serious challenges to the unity of the union, including in terms of countering russian expansionist ambitions and developing a more effective common energy policy, we need to provide this political support from the european parliament. this is essential to strengthen the eu's credibility as a global player and as the only g7 participant with diverse national interests.
mr president, i would like to congratulate mr tarabella and the shadow rapporteurs for compiling this really informative report because in this way we can see how the eu can be a bit more efficient, even more than some reluctant member states and governments. i welcome very much the merger and the increase in volume where the school milk and vegetable schemes are concerned. in my amendments i have contributed by proposing to enhance national and local consultation in this regard, because i think that we must keep two beneficiaries in mind, namely the children on the one hand and the local suppliers on the other. at the same time, we should not benefit governments through this scheme. hungary, for instance, collects 27 % of vat on school supplies as on all other foodstuffs. so i would just like to the urge the commission to examine whether or not we could run this school scheme as vat exempt.
in writing. i would like to point out that school milk and school fruit schemes operate in different forms and with different success rates in the 28 member states of the european union. the latter depends only to a small extent on the eu legislation, but the circumstances in which the educational institutions of the member state operate and the financing of education by the member state are just as important, as are the eating habits. the objective of consolidating the programmes and establishing uniform rules for implementation, as set out in the commission's original proposal, cannot therefore be achieved. we cannot put the same coat on every eu member state. therefore, the amendment of the current programmes should be reconsidered. the proposal on the table cannot be accepted because it would lead to changes which would benefit only some member states while preventing others from carrying out programmes efficiently and on a country-by-country basis. the highly successful hungarian programmes would therefore receive less eu funding in the future than in the current situation. for these reasons, i shall vote against the adoption of the proposal. i welcome and support the commission's move to suspend the amendment of the school milk and school fruit programmes. the current system needs to be maintained with minor adjustments. such corrections shall not result in a reduction of member states' competences and flexibility.
in writing.– today, according to unicef, there are more than 700 million women who were married as children – one in three of them before the age of 15. the consequences are devastating for girls who have health problems and who endure sexual abuse, domestic violence and honour killings. girls forced to marry are also forced out of school, which condemns them to poverty and discrimination. too many girls in the world are being robbed of their childhood. childhood marriage is not only a violation of children’s rights; it also constitutes violence against women. the time has come to act. we call on member states to ratify the council of europe’s istanbul convention on combating violence against women, which recognises child marriage as a criminal offence. i approve of the fact that the european external action service and the member states have made child marriage a priority in the eu action plan on human rights and democracy and in the gender action plan.
mr president, efficient execution of the eu’s refugee agenda requires the full backing of all member states. one particular member state’s government, however, is challenging its bases – those of european values, solidarity and humanity. as we heard from hungarian prime minister orbán himself at the previous sitting of this parliament, his government insists on undermining current eu efforts by dealing with all migration and refugee issues within exclusive national competence, rejecting current and future immigrants, and using arguments for so doing that smack of nationalism and populism. the most disgusting aspect of his attack on the commission’s proposals is the fact that mr orbán launched this provocation purely to serve his internal political goals – to cover up recent corruption scandals that his proxies are closely involved in. in response to such challenges from the council, i urge parliament to use its full political weight to back the commission in this important effort.
in writing. ‒ in line with the fidesz-kdnp group's position, i believe that school milk and school fruit programmes operate in different forms and with different success rates in the 28 member states of the european union. the latter depends only to a small extent on the eu legislation, but the circumstances in which the educational institutions of the member state operate and the financing of education by the member state are just as important, as are the eating habits. i believe that the objective of consolidating the programmes and establishing uniform rules for implementation, as set out in the original commission proposal, cannot be achieved. we cannot put the same coat on every eu member state. therefore, the amendment of the current programmes should be reconsidered. i cannot accept the proposal on the table because it would lead to changes which would benefit only some member states while preventing others from carrying out programmes efficiently and on a country-by-country basis. the very successful hungarian programmes would therefore receive less eu funding in the future than in the present situation, which i cannot ignore. for these reasons, i voted against the adoption of the proposal.
in writing. ‒ in my view, school milk and school fruit programmes operate in different forms and with different success rates in the 28 member states of the european union. the latter depends only to a small extent on the eu legislation, but the circumstances in which the educational institutions of the member state operate and the financing of education by the member state are just as important, as are the eating habits. i believe that the objective of consolidating the programmes and establishing uniform rules for implementation, as set out in the original commission proposal, cannot be achieved. we cannot put the same coat on every eu member state. therefore, the amendment of the current programmes should be reconsidered. i cannot accept the proposal on the table because it would lead to changes which would benefit only some member states while preventing others from carrying out programmes efficiently and on a country-by-country basis. the very successful hungarian programmes would therefore receive less eu funding in the future than in the present situation, which i cannot ignore. for these reasons, i voted against the adoption of the proposal.
in writing. ‒ in my view, school milk and school fruit programmes operate in different forms and with different success rates in the 28 member states of the european union. the latter depends only to a small extent on the eu legislation, but the circumstances in which the educational institutions of the member state operate and the financing of education by the member state are just as important, as are the eating habits. i believe that the objective of consolidating the programmes and establishing uniform rules for implementation, as set out in the original commission proposal, cannot be achieved. we cannot put the same coat on every eu member state. therefore, the amendment of the current programmes should be reconsidered. i cannot accept the proposal on the table because it would lead to changes which would benefit only some member states while preventing others from carrying out programmes efficiently and on a country-by-country basis. the very successful hungarian programmes would therefore receive less eu funding in the future than in the present situation, which i cannot ignore. for these reasons, i voted against the adoption of the proposal.
in writing. ‒ in my view, school milk and school fruit programmes operate in different forms and with different success rates in the 28 member states of the european union. the latter depends only to a small extent on the eu legislation, but the circumstances in which the educational institutions of the member state operate and the financing of education by the member state are just as important, as are the eating habits. i believe that the objective of consolidating the programmes and establishing uniform rules for implementation, as set out in the original commission proposal, cannot be achieved. we cannot put the same coat on every eu member state. therefore, the amendment of the current programmes should be reconsidered. i cannot accept the proposal on the table because it would lead to changes which would benefit only some member states while preventing others from carrying out programmes efficiently and on a country-by-country basis. the very successful hungarian programmes would therefore receive less eu funding in the future than in the present situation, which i cannot ignore. for these reasons, i voted against the adoption of the proposal.
in writing. ‒ school milk and school fruit programmes operate in different forms and with different success rates in the 28 member states of the european union. the latter depends only to a limited extent on the nature of the union legislation. the circumstances in which the educational institutions of the member state operate and the financing of education by the member state are equally important, as are the dietary habits. i believe that the objective of consolidating the programmes and establishing uniform rules for implementation, as set out in the original commission proposal, cannot be achieved. we cannot put the same coat on every eu member state. consequently, the amendment of the current programmes should be reconsidered. i cannot accept the commission's proposal because it would lead to changes which would benefit only some member states while preventing others from implementing programmes efficiently and on a country-by-country basis. the very successful hungarian programmes would therefore receive less eu funding in the future than in the present situation, which i cannot ignore. as a member of the hungarian people's party delegation, for the reasons mentioned above, i did not support the adoption of the proposal.
in writing. ‒ in my view, school milk and school fruit programmes operate in different forms and with different success rates in the 28 member states of the european union. the latter depends only to a small extent on the eu legislation, but the circumstances in which the educational institutions of the member state operate and the financing of education by the member state are just as important, as are the eating habits. i believe that the objective of consolidating the programmes and establishing uniform rules for implementation, as set out in the original commission proposal, cannot be achieved. we cannot put the same coat on every eu member state. therefore, the amendment of the current programmes should be reconsidered. i cannot accept the proposal on the table because it would lead to changes which would benefit only some member states while preventing others from carrying out programmes efficiently and on a country-by-country basis. the very successful hungarian programmes would therefore receive less eu funding in the future than in the present situation, which i cannot ignore. for these reasons, i voted against the adoption of the proposal.
in writing. ‒ healthy eating in children and adolescents is of paramount importance both for their development and for the development of their nutritional habits in later life. consumption of vegetables, fruit and dairy products is declining in europe. 22 million european children are overweight and adolescents consume on average only 30 to 50% of the recommended daily intake of fruit and vegetables. that is why i think it is very important that european educational institutions provide pupils with adequate amounts of vegetables, fruit and dairy products at school meals. the document before the ep was on the opening of interinstitutional negotiations to this end and on the mandate to be given to these negotiations, which i was pleased to vote for.
in writing. ‒ the proposal aims to maintain and make more effective the school milk and school fruit programmes. i believe that these programs can be effective in improving the equality of opportunity in schools, and in reducing the child hunger and malnutrition that unfortunately exists in many countries.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the proposal because i believe that encouraging children to eat healthy food is essential. the current proposal for a decision can ensure healthy food for our children by extending the list of products currently available (e.g. healthy, sugar-free or flavoured milk products). the new approach also includes educational elements to help our children learn the benefits of healthy eating at an early age. i think this programme shows that the eu is much more effective in certain areas than many member states individually. the proposal to merge the existing school milk and school fruit programmes, increase the fund's resources and improve the system is a step in the right direction, but i think we should not stop there. the implementation of the programme in the member states requires a wide public consultation, thus ensuring the use of high-quality local products in the programme. we must take into account that the eu has different regions not only geographically but also in terms of traditions, which is why the choice and allocation must be increasingly made at local level. let's let the local farmers benefit from the program. the central logic behind the programme is that we should not be afraid of the idea of a common duty-free food, since the current vat rate on food in the european union ranges from 0% to 27%.
as my colleagues have already said, i too agree with the commission's report that the adjustment rates and the reserve for crises affecting the agricultural sector are acceptable and i fully accept the professional basis of the report. however, i would like to draw the commission's attention to the fact that one of the terrible signs of the regressions that are taking place in hungary is that direct payments and various types of pension funds are increasingly being channelled to friends of pro-government politicians, oligarchs and ministers in hungary today. in many cases, untraceably, although a corrupt government apparently does provide for that. so the conflicts are growing and there is little consolation that the two very important leaders of the hungarian agricultural office, which awards these subsidies, were arrested the other day, and that 100% of the lease of public land is now exclusively for oligarchs, in hungarian the hungarian people see that the union supports this land grab. the opposition has raised this issue on numerous occasions. in any event, i welcome the commission's decision to make it publicly available as from 31 may this year who has received what aid.
dear mr. commissioner of agriculture, i have to ask you to come with me. i'd like your help, your response and your investigation on a specific, very important matter. i was in the famous hungarian wilderness, hortobágy national park, this weekend, and i had some very shocking experiences that i would like to share with you and my fellow mps. you drive about ten miles [15 km] without seeing a single grazing animal on the famous desert pastures. why no animals? because the animals are locked in the stables, because the ranchers have lost their pastures on corrupt state land grants, the animals can't graze. the health of the animals is being destroyed, the farmers are being destroyed, the farms are being destroyed, because the grazing land has been won by people who - and you will see this with your own eyes - do not graze on the land, do not have animals, do not have a hunger for land, only a hunger for money, they wanted nothing but the european union's hectare-based subsidies. i'm asking you to please investigate this matter urgently. thank you, thank you.
in writing. the european commission plans to transfer €441.6 million from the budget for direct agricultural aids to the agricultural crisis fund at current prices for 2016. the adjustment to the deduction will be approximately 1,4%. this 1.4% reduction is not considered significant and will not affect the farmers. i welcome the european commission's decision to withdraw in a sufficiently moderate manner. sadly, however, this has not always been the case. one of the last actions of the barroso commission last autumn was to significantly reduce the aid to farmers this year. fortunately, this plan was not implemented because of the strong action of the european parliament and the council. i have taken the lion's share of this work with my colleague, tamás deutsch, in parliament. the current financial withdrawal proposal will therefore not hit farmers, and i will therefore support it with a clear heart.
on behalf of the ppe group. - i'm sorry, but i'm not sure. i think it is very important that you have also stated that promoting equal opportunities for women and men is an important common cause. i would like to tell you that the group of the european people's party feels exactly the same way about this question. not only does she support but she fights for this equality of opportunity to be realized. i'm glad we can find common ground on this. of course, we are all different, come from different cultures, and may have different values. these differences can be reflected in country-specific recommendations or in the positions we take in this parliament to represent the values and interests of our constituents, our electorate. i am sorry that in this very important report we have not been able to do this in full. i want to protect this issue from being used as a tool to address the issue of equal opportunities between women and men. it's a much more important issue than using it as a tool. it is therefore time to respect the competences of the member states in this matter, to apply the principle of subsidiarity and not to interfere in each other's territory mutually understood. it's also important to understand that there are issues -- this is the issue -- where the reports are pushing this boundary line, and even crossing the boundary line. it is not good, or even harmful, to try to force things on others that harm this subject. unrealistic measures, the recommendations of which are not needed in these reports. the european parliament's group of the european people's party has also drafted its own alternative motion for a resolution, which presents the strategic and operational aspects of the subject. unfortunately, that's not in the report, so i can't support it.
indirect or indirect discrimination is defined as a state decision which, although not explicitly discriminatory on the face of it, has a negative impact on one gender - usually women - more than another. typically, this indirect discrimination is implemented when, say, in hungary, one government after another - most recently the current one - decides not to give nurses, day care workers, teachers, social workers a salary increase, not to increase their income, but even ten years after our accession to the european union, the hungarian state is in the shameful position of a nurse or a social worker earning the equivalent of 300 euros. they think that women - because it's mostly women - won't rebel against it. but they are, they're in the streets, protesting. i ask you to support them, regardless of party affiliation, and to support the inclusion of this question on the agenda of the european parliament. thank you very much.
first of all, i would like to thank the author of this excellent and forward-looking report. you all know that gender equality is one of the fundamental values of the european union. that is why discrimination against women, violence against women, poverty amongst elderly women are european issues, not simply national ones. and although the principle of subsidiarity can be invoked, these remain european problems, problems of european societies. we need a forward-looking report, not one that tries to hide social problems behind pathetic anachronisms. we must face the fact that discrimination against women particularly affects those who are marginalised, those who live in poverty, those who suffer not only discrimination against women but also discrimination on the grounds of, for example, their ethnicity or their sexual orientation. i think, for example, of roma women, i think of women in the poorest of the poor, who are under-educated, who do not have the right qualifications, and therefore they barely get a job, or if they do get a job, it is in humiliating conditions. i think we need a new strategy, a new way of thinking. we need to pay special attention to women with altered working capacity, older women, women who are migrants, lgbt communities, roma. in this area, the european commission should seek to create new educational and social inclusion programmes. this is the only way to help eliminate all forms of discrimination against women within the european union. we must not forget the people who are in difficult situations, who are living in poverty. this is why we need quality education, access to childcare and other social support systems, special programmes. without it, we can't create order. thank you very much.
i'll close this discussion. the vote will take place tomorrow, tuesday, 9 june 2015. the commission shall be assisted by the committee established by article 15 of regulation (eu) no 182/2011.
the next item on the agenda is a minute's speech on important political issues.
june 4th was the 95th anniversary of the signing of the triennial peace dictatorship. for us hungarians, this is a day of mourning. the unjust dictatorship of the victors at the end of world war i brutally divided my country, hungary, which was not responsible for the war, as punishment: they took away two thirds of our territories, and forced three and a half million hungarians under the rule of foreign states. we hungarians will never accept this. the right to self-determination belongs to all peoples, but it is still denied to the hungarians, whereas in the last three decades many european peoples have been able to live with it, to form an independent state, to unite with the motherland or to realize territorial autonomy. in the annexed territories, millions of hungarians, who constitute an indigenous national community, live in deprivation of rights in their native land. it's a shame the european union is tolerating this. in order to preserve european security, we demand the revision of the infamous trianoni dictate and the right to self-determination for the hungarians living in transylvania, upper, southern and transcarpathia! no, no, not ever! i'll take care of trianon.
mr. president, i have to ask you... i would like to draw attention to a very important ecological and social disaster, which is the neglected state of the aknaszlatina salt mine settlement near the ukrainian-hungarian-romanian border and the continuous pollution of the tisza with concentrated saline, which threatens several eu member states. minas gerais is situated on the largest salt flat in europe. since the 1990s, the technical condition of the salt mines has deteriorated, the regular lack of water, the lack of money has put the efficiency of the salt mines' water-break protection in great danger. mine collapses became a regular occurrence, creating huge craters near the salt mines, directly threatening the residents and infrastructure of the settlement. although the salt mines have been closed, the size of the debris now exceeds three million cubic meters. however, the current situation has prevented the ukrainian government from paying attention to this and has cut off the funding for this. the authorities saw the solution in evacuating the population, forty-five kilometers from the current salt mine. the population is not accepting this eviction, so it's the last moment to help prevent this ecological and social disaster. thank you, thank you.
the european parliament has already dealt with the so-called xenophobic and misleading national consultation launched by the hungarian government at its last plenary session in strasbourg. we will even be adopting a resolution on this matter in parliament this week. but since then, the situation in hungary has unfortunately gotten much worse, as this week the government used one million euros of public money to launch a huge anti-immigrant, xenophobic poster campaign across the country. this caused a huge outcry among hungarians, a real national movement was started to paint over at least the xenophobic parts of these posters. in response, the hungarian police ordered the posters to be protected. civilian-clad detectives were assigned to the posters throughout the country, even ordering fingerprints to be taken. this kind of police action is obviously excessive and disproportionate, and we have to make this clear, as it was done by former hungarian police chiefs. we must condemn this kind of behaviour here in the european parliament.
mr president, let me also congratulate the rapporteur, mr landsbergis, who has worked hard to find common ground. he has secured a very large support base for this report, and deservedly so. i would like to encourage all our colleagues in this house to support the very same report in the vote. the message is entirely clear, and many of our colleagues have already mentioned it: we need to maintain unity and uphold sanctions as long as russia is not changing its policies both externally and internally. the message is clear, but we should also emphasise that we have no problem with the russian people. we would like to have russian society as partners; we would like to engage with anyone and everyone in russia who finds an interest and a clear motivation in working together with us. what we have a problem with is russia’s current leadership, and especially the way they use state power, both internally and externally. this is something we simply cannot condone and go back to business as usual. the russian leadership very often relies on the concept of sovereignty. at some point they even called their system a ‘sovereign democracy’. i shall not go into how far it is a democracy now, but we should be fully aware that sovereignty has its limits. one of the limits of sovereignty is the sovereignty of your neighbour, and this has been violated by russia in the last year and a half. the other obvious limit on sovereignty is international law and international norms. until and unless russia goes back to endorsing the international norms and international law relevant to its behaviour, there is no room for re-engagement. however, once that happens, we need to find a way to live together peacefully in this region with russia. but the ball is in russia’s court. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8))
blue-card answer.– first of all, let me remind you that the way we arrived at sanctions was fully democratic. nobody in this house has ever questioned whether the sanctions the european union imposed on russia were democratically arrived at. secondly, what we would want to change is russia’s behaviour in areas where it does not have sovereign powers to decide the fate of people, including donbas, eastern ukraine and crimea. this is where we would like to see change, and i think that is just right.
it's a two-card draw. although it has been said on several occasions in this chamber that there are doubts about the value or the impact of sanctions policy, i would like to ask my colleague what is actually to be done in a situation where russia wants a different kind of europe. (the member repeated his question because there was no interpretation.) many have raised the real value and effectiveness of sanctions policy, but i would like to ask my colleague that in a situation where europe wants a different russia and russia wants a different europe, what is actually to be done other than to try to put strong pressure on the russian side? thank you, thank you.
report, item 11: we are extremely concerned about the increasing restriction of internet freedom in russia. it reminds me that edward snowden has been a political refugee in this terrible russia for two years now. when will the union finally want to get out of there? point 12: it's about fighting russian propaganda, obviously russia today and other tv. in exactly the same tone as the communists did about the need to persecute radio free europe. point 15: calls on the eu to support the maintenance of high journalistic standards in russia. i just saw a movie called citizenfour about edward snowden. i recommend everyone to see it. i can see in my mind's eye the scene in the basement of the guardian when the british secret service smashed the data carriers that journalist glen greenwald used to obtain from edward slowden information about the exposure of the secret service's terrorist state. are we sure we're the good teachers in these matters?
mr landsbergis has done a very thorough job and gives a broad overview of eu-russia relations. as the report and many european politicians acknowledge, it is undeniable that eu-russia relations have reached a low point and are not expected to improve until the minsk agreements are fully implemented. the illegal annexation of crimea, the hybrid war launched against ukraine and its deliberate destabilisation all support russia's violation of international law and norms. the fact that there are currently 42,500 russian troops and separatist fighters in the donbas, supported and armed by russia, and that since the minsk ceasefire agreement, fighting has not abated and there have been more than four thousand ceasefire violations, from which 120 settlements have been fired on. in fact, since april, separatist artillery attacks have doubled, claiming another 150 lives, including 50 civilian casualties. it is therefore the european union's task to step up the dialogue, monitor it and bring the parties back to the negotiating table as soon as possible. thank you, thank you.
in writing. ‒ the european commission plans to transfer €441.6 million from the budget for direct agricultural aids to the agricultural crisis fund at current prices for 2016. the adjustment to the deduction will be approximately 1,4%. this 1.4% reduction is not considered significant and will not affect the farmers. i welcome the european commission's decision to withdraw in a sufficiently moderate manner. sadly, however, this has not always been the case. one of the last actions of the barroso commission last autumn was to significantly reduce the aid to farmers this year. fortunately, this plan was not implemented because of the strong action of the european parliament and the council. i have taken the lion's share of this work with my colleague, tamás deutsch, in parliament. the financial withdrawal proposed at present will not affect farmers, and i have therefore voted in favour of the report, in line with the line of the european people's party.
in writing. ‒ the level of direct payments should be aligned, in the light of the legitimate claims received, by a joint regulation of the parliament and the council with the amount voted for in the budget. i voted in favour of the commission's proposal for this regulation to allow for payments.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report, as i consider it important that the adjustment rate for direct payments and the provisioning of reserves be implemented in a transparent manner by the member states. i welcomed the decision of the european commission to make public the information on who received what eu aid from 31 may this year. in my view, transparency can be a barrier to corrupt practices in member states. i am confident that the fight against corruption in all its forms is on the agenda of the european union institutions and that measures like this will bring real results. the report will also be able to track backward practices, such as those unfortunately characteristic of the hungarian government. direct payments and various types of credit cards are increasingly being transferred to friends of pro-government politicians, oligarchs, and ministers in hungary today. in many cases, untraceably, though this is obviously provided by a corrupt government. conflicts are mounting, and little consolation that two prominent executives of the pay agency were recently arrested. in hungary, almost 100 percent of the bids for state lands have been won by oligarchs, while the hungarian people see that the european union is doing nothing to stop this land grab!
in writing. ‒ i am convinced that respect for the competences of the member states, especially in moral matters and family policy issues, is key to protecting equality. clear tasks and more effective monitoring are needed in the implementation of the post-2015 gender mainstreaming strategy to achieve real results in tackling discrimination in the labour market, education or decision-making. the report does not reflect the values of the people's party, and for this reason i could not support it in the final vote. at the same time, i would like to stress that supporting equal opportunities for women and men remains one of the key priorities of my group. i'm glad we can speak with one voice to protect our values. it is natural that we have different views, because we come from different cultural and social backgrounds, and it is precisely because of this that the principle of subsidiarity ensures that we have a representation of these different views. i'm sorry that this wasn't reflected in the report. in my opinion, the issue of equality between women and men should not be used as a tool and reports that go beyond the subject of the report and try to convey messages that are not appropriate to the subject should be stopped.
in writing. ‒ clear tasks and more effective monitoring are needed in the implementation of the post-2015 gender mainstreaming strategy to achieve real results in tackling discrimination in the labour market, education or decision-making. mrs noichl's report did not reflect the values of the people's party, and for that reason i could not support it in the final vote. at the same time, support for equal opportunities between women and men remains one of the key priorities of the epp group. i'm glad we can speak with one voice to protect our values. it is natural that we have different views, because we come from different cultural and social backgrounds, and it is precisely because of this that the principle of subsidiarity ensures that we have a representation of these different views. i regret that this position was not adequately reflected in the report. i am convinced that respect for the competences of the member states, in particular on ethical issues and on family policy issues, is key to safeguarding equality. i cannot support a report whose title is 'yes' but whose content is not a realistic equality of opportunity.
in writing. clear tasks and more effective monitoring are needed in the implementation of the post-2015 gender mainstreaming strategy to achieve real results in tackling discrimination in the labour market, education or decision-making. mrs noichl's report did not reflect the values of the people's party, and for that reason i could not support it in the final vote. at the same time, i would like to stress that supporting equal opportunities for women and men remains one of the key priorities of my group. i'm glad we can speak with one voice to protect our values. it is natural that we have different views, because we come from different cultural and social backgrounds, and it is precisely because of this that the principle of subsidiarity ensures that we have a representation of these different views. i regret that this position was not adequately reflected in the report. i am convinced that the issue of equality between women and men should not be used as a tool and that reports that go beyond the subject of the report, that violate boundaries and that try to convey messages that are not appropriate to the subject should be stopped. i am convinced that respect for the competences of the member states, in particular on ethical issues and on family policy issues, is key to safeguarding equality. i cannot support a report whose title is 'yes' but whose content is not a realistic equality of opportunity.
in writing. ‒ clear tasks and more effective monitoring are needed in the implementation of the post-2015 gender mainstreaming strategy to achieve real results in tackling discrimination in the labour market, education or decision-making. mrs noichl's report did not reflect the values of the people's party, and for that reason i could not support it in the final vote. at the same time, i would like to stress that supporting equal opportunities for women and men remains one of the key priorities of my group. i'm glad we can speak with one voice to protect our values. it is natural that we have different views, because we come from different cultural and social backgrounds, and it is precisely because of this that the principle of subsidiarity ensures that we have a representation of these different views. i regret that this position was not adequately reflected in the report. i believe that the issue of equality between women and men should not be used as a tool and that reports that go beyond the subject of the report, that violate boundaries and that try to convey messages that do not fit the theme should be stopped. i am convinced that respect for the competences of the member states, in particular on ethical issues and on family policy issues, is key to safeguarding equality.
in writing. ‒ the issue of equality between women and men should not be used as a tool. respect for the competences of the member states, in particular on ethical issues and family policy issues, is key to safeguarding equality. i cannot support a report which, in its title, says yes, but in its content does not serve the cause of real equality of opportunity.
in writing. ‒ clear tasks and more effective monitoring are needed in the implementation of the post-2015 gender mainstreaming strategy to achieve real results in tackling discrimination in the labour market, education or decision-making. mrs noichl's report did not reflect the values of the people's party, and for that reason i could not support it in the final vote. at the same time, i would like to stress that supporting equal opportunities for women and men remains one of the key priorities of my group. i'm glad we can speak with one voice to protect our values. it is natural that we have different views, because we come from different cultural and social backgrounds, and it is precisely because of this that the principle of subsidiarity ensures that we have a representation of these different views. i regret that this position was not adequately reflected in the report. i believe that the issue of equality between women and men should not be used as a tool and that reports that go beyond the subject of the report, that violate boundaries and that try to convey messages that do not fit the theme should be stopped. i am convinced that respect for the competences of the member states, in particular on ethical issues and on family policy issues, is key to safeguarding equality. i cannot support a report whose title is 'yes' but whose content is not about real equality of opportunity.
in writing. ‒ clear tasks and more effective monitoring are needed in the implementation of the post-2015 gender equality strategy to ensure that action on discrimination in the labour market, education or decision-making is effective. mrs noichl's report did not reflect the values of the people's party sufficiently, and for this reason i could not support it as a member of the hungarian people's party delegation in the final vote. at the same time, promoting equal opportunities for women and men remains one of my group's key priorities. i'm glad we can speak with one voice to protect our values. it is natural that we have different views, because we come from different cultural and social backgrounds, and it is precisely because of this that the principle of subsidiarity ensures that we have a representation of these different views. i regret that the report has not been able to adequately reflect these views. i believe that the issue of equality between women and men should not be used as a tool and that reports that go beyond the subject of the report, that violate boundaries and that try to convey messages that do not fit the theme should be stopped. i am convinced that respect for the competences of the member states, in particular on ethical issues and family policy issues, is key to safeguarding equality. a report whose title is yes, but whose content is not about real equality of opportunity, i cannot support as a member of the hungarian people's party delegation.
in writing. ‒ clear tasks and more effective monitoring are needed in the implementation of the post-2015 gender mainstreaming strategy to achieve real results in tackling discrimination in the labour market, education or decision-making. mrs noichl's report did not reflect the values of the people's party sufficiently, and i was therefore unable to support it in the final vote. at the same time, i would like to stress that supporting equal opportunities for women and men remains one of the key priorities of my group. i'm glad we can speak with one voice to protect our values. naturally, we see things differently because of our different cultural and social traditions. the subsidiarity principle therefore enables us to reflect these different views. i regret that this position was not adequately reflected in the report. i believe that the issue of equality between women and men should not be used as a tool. the submission of reports that go beyond the subject of the report, violate boundaries and attempt to convey messages that are not appropriate to the subject should be stopped. i am convinced that respect for the competences of the member states, especially in ethical matters and in matters related to family policy, is key to protecting equality. i cannot support a report whose title is 'yes' but whose content is not about real equality of opportunity.
in writing. ‒ clear tasks and more effective monitoring are needed in the implementation of the post-2015 gender mainstreaming strategy to achieve real results in tackling discrimination in the labour market, education or decision-making. mrs noichl's report did not reflect the values of the people's party, and for that reason i could not support it in the final vote. at the same time, i would like to stress that supporting equal opportunities for women and men remains one of the key priorities of my group. i'm glad we can speak with one voice to protect our values. it is natural that we have different views, because we come from different cultural and social backgrounds, and it is precisely because of this that the principle of subsidiarity ensures that we have a representation of these different views. i regret that this position was not adequately reflected in the report. i believe that the issue of equality between women and men should not be used as a tool and that reports that go beyond the subject of the report, that violate boundaries and that try to convey messages that do not fit the theme should be stopped. i am convinced that respect for the competences of the member states, in particular on ethical issues and on family policy issues, is key to safeguarding equality. i cannot support a report whose title is 'yes' but whose content is not about real equality of opportunity.
in writing. ‒ as a committed believer in gender equality, i am happy to support any initiative that hopefully can accelerate this process, which is worryingly slow in all respects.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report because i believe that clear tasks and more effective monitoring are needed to implement the post-2015 strategy for gender equality in order to achieve real results in tackling discrimination in the labour market, in education or in decision-making. i agree with the rapporteur that a balanced and future-oriented approach is the starting point for a new eu strategy for equality between women and men. i consider it important that the commission should be asked to come forward as soon as possible with comprehensive, binding rules on violence against women and girls and on gender-based violence. the resolution also points out that poverty among women is increasing, which can lead to trafficking in girls, sexual exploitation and forced prostitution, and that member states should therefore develop effective measures. i also find the part of the report that states that flexible forms of work for both men and women are needed to balance family life and work according to needs to be an important element.
in writing. ‒ i welcome and support the commission's proposal to review the strategy for the enforcement of intellectual property rights in third countries. intellectual property-intensive industries generate around 39% of total economic activity in the eu (worth around eur 4.7 billion per year) and approximately 26% of total employment (56 million jobs). however, since the entry into force of the convention on trade-related aspects of intellectual property rights (trips, 1 january 1995), only a limited number of significant intellectual property agreements have been concluded, even though technological and societal changes have transformed the field of intellectual property rights. the report as important issues of the present and the future clearly identifies the need to stimulate research and innovation, the challenge of access to medicines and the environmental challenges. i also welcome the fact that all initiatives concerning external policies are linked to internal policies and that, accordingly, there should be a thorough review of the internal improvement of its rules on intellectual property.
in writing. ‒ as intellectual property rights affect a very significant part of the eu's economy and jobs, enforcement of these rights both within the eu and in third countries is crucial to the union's economic interests. the report represents, in my view, a decisive step forward on this issue, and i therefore voted in favour of both reports.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the strategy for the enforcement of intellectual property rights in third countries. i believe that it is right to seek greater coherence between intellectual property rights protection and other policies, since measures to protect intellectual property rights also contribute to the success of the fight against tax evasion and organised crime, which currently represents one of the greatest challenges for the union. in addition, concerted policies will also allow global standards to be improved. however, i also agree with the recommendation in the report that there should be a public debate and broad information on the protection and enforcement of intellectual property rights and their consumer implications. i also find the report's further suggestions for better data provision, access to medicines and bilateral free trade agreements useful.
in writing. ‒ in july 2014, the commission issued a communication on intellectual property regulation, which includes a 10-point action plan. the action plan aims to increase the effectiveness of action against commercial infringements of intellectual property rights, both at union level and within member states. the rapporteur agrees with the commission's vision of a new comprehensive ipr strategy, which aims, inter alia, at a more transparent business model, a higher level of consumer information and a more cost-effective and more accessible system of protection of intellectual property rights, and i therefore voted in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ in july 2014, the commission issued a communication on intellectual property regulation, which includes a 10-point action plan. the action plan aims to increase the effectiveness of action against commercial infringements of intellectual property rights, both at union level and within member states. the rapporteur agrees with the commission's vision of a new comprehensive ipr strategy, which aims, inter alia, at a more transparent business model, a higher level of consumer information and a more cost-effective and more accessible system of protection of intellectual property rights, and i therefore voted in favour of the report.
in writing. in july 2014, the commission issued a communication on intellectual property regulation, which contains a 10-point action plan. the action plan aims to increase the effectiveness of action against commercial infringements of intellectual property rights, both at union level and within member states. the rapporteur agrees with the commission's vision of a new comprehensive ipr strategy, which aims, inter alia, at a more transparent business model, a higher level of consumer information and a more cost-effective and more accessible system of protection of intellectual property rights, and i therefore voted in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ in july 2014, the commission issued a communication on intellectual property regulation, which includes a 10-point action plan. the action plan aims to increase the effectiveness of action against commercial infringements of intellectual property rights, both at union level and within member states. the rapporteur agrees with the commission's vision of a new comprehensive ipr strategy, which aims, inter alia, at a more transparent business model, a higher level of consumer information and a more cost-effective and more accessible system of protection of intellectual property rights, and i therefore voted in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ in july 2014, the commission issued a communication on intellectual property regulation, which includes a 10-point action plan. the action plan aims to increase the effectiveness of action against commercial infringements of intellectual property rights, both at union level and within member states. the rapporteur agrees with the commission's vision of a new comprehensive ipr strategy, which aims, inter alia, at a more transparent business model, a higher level of consumer information and a more cost-effective and more accessible system of protection of intellectual property rights, and i therefore voted in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ in july 2014, the commission issued a communication on intellectual property regulation, which includes a 10-point action plan. the action plan aims to increase the effectiveness of action against commercial infringements of intellectual property rights, both at union level and within member states. the rapporteur agrees with the commission's vision of a new comprehensive ipr strategy, which aims, inter alia, at a more transparent business model, a higher level of consumer information and a more cost-effective and more accessible system of protection of intellectual property rights, and i therefore voted in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ in july 2014, the commission issued a communication on intellectual property regulation, which includes a 10-point action plan. the action plan aims to increase the effectiveness of action against commercial infringements of intellectual property rights, both at union level and within member states. the rapporteur agrees with the commission's vision of a new comprehensive ipr strategy, which aims, inter alia, at a more transparent business model, a higher level of consumer information and a more cost-effective and more accessible system of protection of intellectual property rights, and i therefore voted in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ in july 2014, the commission issued a communication on intellectual property regulation, which contains a 10-point action plan. the aim is to be able to tackle intellectual property infringement on a commercial scale more effectively both at union level and within member states. the rapporteur of the parliament's document on the action plan agrees with the commission's vision of a new comprehensive strategy on intellectual property rights. it aims to create a clearer business model, a higher level of consumer information and a more cost-effective and accessible system of legal protection. for all these reasons, i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ in july 2014, the commission issued a communication on intellectual property regulation, which includes a 10-point action plan. the action plan aims to increase the effectiveness of action against commercial infringements of intellectual property rights, both at union level and within member states. the rapporteur agrees with the commission's vision of a new comprehensive ipr strategy, which aims, inter alia, at a more transparent business model, a higher level of consumer information and a more cost-effective and more accessible system of protection of intellectual property rights, and i therefore voted in favour of the report.
in writing. although the report has a strong emphasis on the protection of cultural and intellectual property, i found it to be generally supportive. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the eu's new rules on the protection of intellectual property and on the protection of intellectual property rights in the event of infringements of the union's intellectual property rights. products infringing intellectual property rights cause significant revenue losses for honest, legitimate businesses, as well as job losses and reputational damage. moreover, they represent a potential threat and a source of danger to the health and safety of consumers, even if the quality and safety of the products are not automatically linked to their authenticity.
in writing. ‒ as intellectual property rights affect a very significant part of the eu's economy and jobs, enforcement of these rights both within the eu and in third countries is crucial to the union's economic interests. the report represents a decisive step forward in this respect, and i therefore voted in favour of it.
in writing. ‒ in july 2014, the commission issued a communication on intellectual property regulation, which includes a 10-point action plan. the action plan aims to increase the effectiveness of action against commercial infringements of intellectual property rights, both at union level and within member states. the rapporteur agrees with the commission's vision of a new comprehensive ipr strategy, which aims, inter alia, at a more transparent business model, a higher level of consumer information and a more cost-effective and more accessible system of protection of intellectual property rights, and i therefore voted in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the eu action plan towards a renewed consensus on the enforcement of intellectual property rights. intellectual property rights represent a major asset for the european economy in global competition, and the increasing level of certain related infringements is a problem, which in many cases can be an obstacle to innovation, job creation and thus growth. i agree with the report that there is a need for greater publicity and full information on measures to protect intellectual property rights. information is of paramount importance because, as the report points out, many europeans do not recognise the potential impact of ipr infringements on the economy, society and consumer safety. i believe it is important that the interests of the consumer, the european citizen, should be at the centre of all our actions. i also support the report's recommendation on smes. since smes are the engine of the european economy, the commission's intention to help smes to enforce their intellectual property rights is welcome. i urge them to continue to take their interests into account when creating legislation, to make it clear and easy for smes to enforce.
the subject of this debate is the formal adoption of the doha amendment to the kyoto protocol. in fact, everyone is talking about the paris climate summit in the future. the rapporteur also said that the european union should set itself very ambitious and realistic targets. well, i think that very ambitious and realistic don't mix. we are proud to see the european union at the forefront of the fight against climate change. that's right. but it's not going to help this global problem by making more and more ambitious goals. it should be noted that the european union is responsible for 10% of emissions. so what's the stake in the paris meeting? whether we can finally get the two biggest polluters, the united states and china, to make a real commitment, to get them to do it, because so far it's just words and words. thank you very much.
so much of this is about getting along with iceland, and it reminds me that not only iceland, but other european countries are in a position where they have to get along with something. they are naturally aligned with the european union. but we also have a responsibility towards them, which means that their interests must be taken into account in the negotiations, particularly in the transatlantic context, in the ttip negotiations. i think that the european union should take this seriously, given that we have nowhere to go back to, so we cannot subordinate everything to the criteria of efficiency, trade and industry, and i think that we do deserve the maximum protection that the commission can provide in the transatlantic negotiations. thank you very much for your attention.
in writing. as we approach the paris climate summit, it is important to assess the efforts and intentions that have been made so far. the declarations of intent submitted cover 34% of the world's energy-related carbon dioxide emissions. unfortunately, 34 percent is still not high enough. if more countries cannot be persuaded to support the convention, the conference will not be successful. in terms of the scale of emissions, the commitments of china and india are key. while it is understandable that securing economic growth is a top priority for these countries, long-term objectives should not be lost sight of: the effects of climate change are projected to be felt most strongly in china and india (floods, crop yield declines), which will also have a significant impact on economic performance. europe's leadership in the fight against climate change can only succeed if partners are involved.
on behalf of the verts/ale group.– madam president, energy security has become a primary concern over recent years in europe, especially in the light of the russia-ukraine crisis. the commission has rightly identified the fact that reducing energy dependency is a key to strengthening energy security in europe, especially considering that approximately eur 400 billion is spent yearly by the eu on energy imports. yet the strategy they came up with has not managed to translate this high-level ambition into the most needed actions. the own-initiative report of the european parliament contains several more forward—looking elements than the commission proposal. i would like to thank our rapporteur, mr algirdas saudargas, and the shadow rapporteurs for their constructive work in this regard. these achievements include the chapter entitled moderating energy demand and reiterating the position of the european parliament on 2030 climate and energy targets. however, in my opinion, this own-initiative report only gives a partial answer to energy security challenges. i fear that the extreme dependency on russia will simply be turned into a dependency on other external fossil energy suppliers. this is not what we should be aiming for. the future energy policy of the eu, as also mentioned in the energy union package, should be fully coherent with other eu policies and be based on reduced energy demand, energy savings and the use of renewable sources with the increased role of consumers/prosumers. it should also tackle the pressing issue of energy poverty. unfortunately, in many areas the report does not set clear directions and it lacks long—term thinking when it comes to concrete measures. i would like to highlight the selection of projects of common interest – pci’s – where we experience a strong bias towards fossil fuel projects, which is neither defendable nor in line with the decarbonisation pillar of the energy union package. the report mentions several types of technologies, including shale gas, liquefied natural gas (lng) and carbon capture and storage (ccs), which should be supported. this would lead to a severe lock-in effect in the european energy system. the report remains very much focused on gas and other conventional energy sources and does not tackle the multiple forms of energy dependence – technological and financial fuel dependence. also, it does not acknowledge the important role of renewables – we only find a few hints in the strategy. the eu should, rather, take steps towards an energy transition using sustainable renewable sources of energy, which are becoming increasingly cost—competitive with conventional sources and provide multiple benefits, including more jobs, opportunities for the local economy and lower energy import costs. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8))
it's a two-card draw. - mr. deputy, i have to go. in his speech, he mentioned extreme dependence on external sources and that one extreme dependence can be replaced by another, although he also mentioned the importance of shale gas. frankly, i think shale gas is a very environmentally damaging story, and i wouldn't go into that too much, but do you see an opportunity to just replace the energy efficiency with the stressful import that we're operating in here like these jellyfish?
that's a two-card answer. thank you for asking. shale gas, we agree, is a very serious source of pollution. i didn't mention its importance, i just put it on the table as a problem. investments in energy efficiency and renewables can help europe to break its dependence on russian gas. instead of linking europe to this fossil fuel system by developing gas infrastructure, what we need instead is the money we spend on these developments or part of these developments, some network developments are needed, some new sources are needed, but this money should be used to build a sustainable, renewable energy system ... (the president took the floor from the member...)
one of the biggest challenges facing the european union today is to secure its energy supply. our continent is dangerously vulnerable to outside suppliers. when we look for a cure for this, we also need to recognize that there are more vulnerable people among the vulnerable. the gas crises of 2006 and 2009 made it clear that central and eastern europe is the most vulnerable region today. in hungary, for example, 80% of the co-operative houses are heated with gas from the only imported source. we have to change this situation, we have a duty to increase security of supply. i think the saudargas report can serve as a compass for this work. i agree that our task is to achieve a single energy market, to apply existing legislation, to increase energy efficiency and diversification, and to develop infrastructure. the best rules are useless if the power lines are missing. the commission and the council should therefore pay particular attention to compliance with the requirements of the energy package. it should encourage energy market players to make better use of existing infrastructure, such as bi-directional interconnections, and to build out the infrastructure that is still missing. my fellow members of parliament! if we continue along this path, the energy union can become a realistic goal. (the opponent has consented to answer a question marked with a blue card under article 162 (8) of the rules of procedure. )
it's a two-card draw. - mr. deputy, i have to ask you to leave. on energy security, you mentioned infrastructure, you mentioned delivery capacity. this is really important. but going back to the example of hungary, you mentioned, no matter how we increase infrastructure, if we can't find new sources of supply - maybe in the short term - then this dependence will not change. so how do you see the diversification of gas resources in hungary in the short term?
that's a two-card answer. thank you very much for the question, mr. representative. i argued for two-way transportation when it came to infrastructure development, to get new sources. hungary has made considerable efforts in recent years to improve its infrastructure. he also built storage facilities and interconnectors. now it's up to our neighbors, if you will, to create the possibility of two-way gas, and thus really get gas from other sources. thank you, thank you.
russia is no longer a predictable partner when europe's energy security is at stake. the annexation of crimea, the events in eastern ukraine and the anti-competitive pricing by gasprom make it very clear that we must wake up and not put europe's energy security in the hands of a single monopoly supplier. in parallel, we must also put an end to the separate energy policies of the member states, which threaten europe's energy independence. we do not need nuclear power stations to be built with separate agreements or gas contracts to be covered by separate agreements, because that would undermine the solidarity which can be the basis for the foundation of the european energy union. on the contrary, we must go further than the proposal on the table in the european parliament, for example by trying to include in the european energy union the possibility of the member states buying energy together, because this increases our bargaining power and can ultimately serve the energy security of the european union and the member states.
in writing. the development of a single eu energy policy has its drawbacks, which arise from differences between member states. the solution is to come together, but there are differences that can only be bridged by mutual sacrifice. the development of a community energy policy will be a long process and i believe we are on the right track, but i am afraid that the crisis will slow down efforts at member state level, as countries will focus more on public debt and budget deficits. i agree with what the report says about sticking to the targets, because energy efficiency measures and bio-energy investments help to reduce energy consumption and create jobs, thereby reducing unemployment. it is clear, however, that energy policy is not a stand-alone policy, nor can it be separated from other policies, since an investment or measure automatically affects processes and areas which are essentially part of another community policy. this is why strategies and objectives need to be coordinated across all areas to achieve maximum efficiency and to support each other across policy activities.
in writing.– free movement of persons is one of the most important achievements of the european union since its foundation. the absence of internal borders makes it therefore crucially important that our common external borders are controlled reliably and consistently. in order to better manage the growing flow of travellers, we need to modernise the european border control system, by increasing its efficiency and effectiveness. the result should be smooth and easy travel for the majority of third-country travellers who cross the eu borders yearly on the one hand, and an impossible mission for those who abuse free movement, such as organised crime and terrorist organisations, on the other. we look forward to the findings of the commission’s impact assessment and the pilot projects currently being carried out, to understand what new architecture will be implemented, what the single system for entry-exit should look like, what biometric identification should be applied, how data retention and protection would be handled. the recent dramatic increase in migrants through the mediterranean and the balkans makes it even more urgent to adopt the smart borders package, in order to strengthen border control and guarantee the protection of our citizens.
i think that at the end of this debate, there are a few things worth remembering. my first observation is that there are three actors here: one is olaf itself, the other is olaf's supervisory committee, and the main actor is the commission. i would very much like, for the dignity of this house and to reassure the taxpaying citizens of europe, to see these organisations not bringing their problems to parliament but bringing solutions with the guidance and cooperation of the commission. that is what we want, not to be here to serve one of the most discreet bodies in the european union with a public debate.
in writing. the debate on the motion for a joint resolution is held because of the facts contained in the 2014 annual report of the olaf supervisory committee. in that letter, olaf's directorate-general made serious criticisms of the management, administration and case management of the european anti-fraud office, which cannot be ignored and we are obliged to express our views on the matter as members of the committee on budgetary control. the report strongly criticises the procedure in which 423 cases were opened at one time on 1 february 2012 by decision of the director-general without substantive examination of whether olaf's competence in those cases was based on fraud, corruption or any other illegal activity affecting the financial interests of the union. another problem is that the director-general of olaf ignores the recommendations of the supervisory board, having implemented only 8 out of 50 recommendations of the dg. the access of the supervisory board to the information necessary for the performance of its tasks is also not guaranteed, nor is the stable functioning of the secretariat of the bank guaranteed. the resolution calls on the european anti-fraud office and its director-general to address these problems. all the necessary conditions should be provided for the effective functioning of the supervisory committee and its tasks, and the committee on budgetary control of the european parliament has a duty to speak out in this regard. i support the joint motion for a resolution in its entirety.
in writing. according to olaf's 2014 report, the current hungarian government has investigated five out of every ten cases of corruption. since 2010, the hungarian government has been given the title of the second most corrupt member state in the eu. the hungarian authorities did not suspect any abuse last year, while 28 complaints were received from the private sector. despite the fact that the government and peter polt have no idea that we're losing billions in the eu because of institutional corruption, and that the united states is banning government officials. olaf's report is one thing: today the hungarian government is fighting the eu with the money of european taxpayers, trying to build an illiberal state in hungary with european money. last week in brussels, jános lázár openly admitted this when he accepted the billions of euros in eu fines imposed by the orbán government for its corrupt public procurement. we are not surprised that the hungarian government is trying to undermine the european public prosecutor's office, to weaken its jurisdiction. the commission has also taken note of the fact that the hungarian authorities have not yet provided any evidence that the fides corruption is continuing. the commission has also taken into account the fact that the commission has not yet adopted a decision on the compatibility of the aid with the internal market. after the fall of the orbán government, we will investigate cases of suspected corruption, we will not let hungarian people, businesses lose eu funds because of their corrupt government.
mr president, paragraph 12 should read, ‘renews its call for the development of strengthened analytical and monitoring capabilities of russian propaganda, especially in the russian language in order to be able to identify, and respond swiftly and appropriately to, deliberately biased information spread in various eu languages; calls on the commission to earmark without delay adequate funding for concrete projects aimed at countering russian propaganda and misinformation within the eu and abroadʼ – and here comes the insertion – ʽwith professional reporting in line with journalistic ethics, standards and good practice’. the only aim is that we do not make counter-propaganda but just counter russian propaganda.
in writing. ‒ the kyoto protocol amendment was adopted by 192 member states at the doha climate change conference in december 2012. this established the second commitment period of the kyoto protocol, which runs from 1 january 2013 to 31 december 2020. for this period, the european union and its member states and iceland have committed to a joint emission reduction of 20% compared to 1990 levels. the second commitment period is therefore a very important stage in the fight against climate change. however, an amendment shall enter into force only after it has been accepted by at least three quarters of the parties to the kyoto protocol. the adoption of the draft council decision is therefore a significant step forward in efforts to prevent climate change. the committee on industry, research and energy, of which i am a member, therefore supported the conclusion of the amendment, and i myself supported it.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the draft resolution on the draft council decision on the conclusion of the doha amendment to the kyoto protocol and on the joint fulfilment of the obligations arising therefrom. as this is a long process, i think it is important that we make continuous adjustments to reduce emissions. the kyoto protocol, which sets binding international emission reduction targets, was signed in 1997. in 2012, the council committed to propose a joint reduction commitment of 20% of 1990 levels for the second commitment period by the union. i believe it sends a strong message that the union and its member states are making efforts and are taking a leading role in the international fight against climate change. i welcome the draft council decision on this together with the rapporteur. i share the regrettable view that the eu has a duty to convince the main polluting countries that they are not part of such agreements, and that it must use all the political, diplomatic and economic instruments at its disposal to do so. i am confident that these processes and further commitments will be an important negotiating point in the new international agreement to be concluded in paris in the second half of this year.
in writing. ‒ iceland is not a member of the european union, but has committed to a 20% reduction in greenhouse gas emissions compared to 1990 for the second commitment period of the kyoto protocol. the agreement sets out commitments to be undertaken by the eu member states on the one hand and by iceland on the other, and its support is therefore logically linked to the support of the doha amendment.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the draft resolution on iceland's commitment to the doha amendment to the kyoto protocol. as a member of the european parliament's delegation to switzerland, norway and iceland, i believe it is important that environmental principles apply not only to eu member states but also to eea countries. i believe that there is an openness on both sides in terms of commitments, as the experience of the past few months has shown me. i also welcome the fact that not only the member states of the european union but also iceland have committed themselves to the second commitment period of the kyoto protocol (2013 to 2020). as the draft notes, iceland is a party to annex i of the kyoto protocol and has met its individual target for the first commitment period. the icelandic authorities have not provided any evidence that the measures are in line with the commitments made by the icelandic authorities in the framework of the commitments. in 2009, iceland indicated that it would fulfil its commitments jointly with the eu and its member states during the second commitment period. it is important to note that iceland participates in the eu emissions trading system (eu ets) and is subject to the greenhouse gas emissions monitoring system regulation. therefore, the rights and obligations applicable under the joint fulfilment of the member states should be extended to iceland by union legislation.
in writing. ‒ with today’s vote we gave our consent to the commission recommendation to the council to allow croatia to adhere to the convention on mutual assistance in criminal matters between the member states of the european union. the act of 2011 concerning the conditions of accession of croatia to the european union simplified its accession to the conventions and protocols concluded by the member states. it is no longer necessary to negotiate and conclude specific accession protocols: the act of accession simply states that croatia accedes to the conventions and protocols by virtue of the act. we voted therefore in favour and welcome this concrete step towards mutual assistance in criminal matters between the member states.
in writing. the international nature of crime and the need to adapt the conditions for prosecuting it to this challenge, within certain reasonable limits, have enabled me to support this report. it is in our common interest that croatia should also become part of the eu system of legal aid in criminal matters by acceding to the convention and protocol.
in writing. ‒ by acceding to the union, croatia has undertaken to accede to a number of conventions previously concluded by member states under article 34 teu. in this connection, the council, on a recommendation from the commission and after consulting the european parliament, shall adopt a decision fixing the date of entry into force of the conventions for croatia and making the adjustments necessary on account of the accession of the new member state. support for the report therefore essentially supports the completion of croatia's accession to the eu.
in writing. ‒ with today’s vote we gave our consent to the commission recommendation to the council to allow croatia to adhere to the convention on the fight against corruption involving officials of the european communities or officials of member states. the act of 2011 concerning the conditions of accession of croatia to the european union simplified its accession to the conventions and protocols concluded by the member states. it is no longer necessary to negotiate and conclude specific accession protocols: the act of accession simply states that croatia accedes to the conventions and protocols by virtue of the act. the council, in order to take a decision determining the date on which this convention will enter into force in relation to croatia and making all the adjustments required by reason of the accession of this new member state to this convention, will act on a recommendation by the commission, after consulting parliament. the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs recommended that parliament give its consent to the commission recommendation. we voted therefore in favour and welcome croatia’s contribution to the fight against corruption involving officials of the european communities or officials of member states of the european union.
in writing. corruption cases are high on the news, with cases of economic crime linked to sports and politics coming to light every day. such processes, which cause very serious moral and social damage, must be prevented by all possible means, and i therefore gladly supported the report that croatia should also be part of the eu's anti-corruption system by acceding to the convention.
in writing. ‒ by acceding to the union, croatia has undertaken to accede to a number of conventions previously concluded by member states under article 34 teu. in this connection, the council, on a recommendation from the commission and after consulting the european parliament, shall adopt a decision fixing the date of entry into force of the conventions for croatia and making the adjustments necessary on account of the accession of the new member state. support for the report therefore essentially supports the completion of croatia's accession to the eu.
mr president, a balanced relationship between the european union and russia is crucial for the whole continent. relationships are at an all-time low. the report adopted is, beyond legitimate expectations, a de facto indictment of president putin, who is being described as a dictator and an aggressor. relations will not improve if the union does not take into account russia's legitimate interests. the ukrainian crisis is also a conflict between the us and russia, in which the eu has unilaterally become the representative of us interests. maintaining and increasing sanctions is pointless and harmful. it is pointless because it has not shaken the popularity of president putin, but it is also harmful because it causes very serious economic losses to some eu member states, including hungary, and therefore the sanctions must be reversed.
in writing. ‒ mr gabrielius landsbergis has done a thorough job and gives a broad overview of eu-russia relations. i agree with the report and with the view of many european politicians that relations between the eu and russia have reached a low point. the situation is not expected to improve until the minsk agreements are fully implemented. the illegal annexation of crimea, the hybrid war launched against ukraine, the deliberate destabilisation of the country confirm that russia has violated international law and norms. in order to resolve the situation in eastern ukraine, i believe we must insist that the only way forward is through a negotiated political consensus, since the military actions have already claimed thousands of lives and caused great suffering to the population. the european union therefore has the task and responsibility of enhancing the dialogue between the parties, monitoring it and creating the conditions for an early peaceful settlement. in the light of all this, i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. normally, problems in international relations are resolved through diplomacy, negotiations. those who resort to sanctions should not be surprised if the response is similar. i am convinced that it is not in the interests of the european citizens to further escalate tensions which have already caused enormous economic damage, and therefore the report cannot be accepted. europe cannot be a servant of the us or other countries' policies, but must make its own way.
in writing. ‒ as the report points out, the eu and russia are dependent on each other in the long term to face and respond to global challenges together. however, today, as a result of president putin's regrettable change of policy, russia has not only lost sight of the need to increase freedom, strengthen democracy, respect human rights and the rule of law at home, but is also threatening these fundamental european values abroad with its aggressive foreign policy, using trade in raw materials and energy as a tool of political pressure and even provoking armed conflicts at times. moreover, russia finds collaborators in this policy from certain member state governments and political forces, and there is a strong suspicion that it is not financing such a political force itself. i am convinced that the eu cannot stand by and watch this happen, and the report seems in many respects to be an adequate response to this policy.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the adoption of the report because it provides an accurate and thorough picture of the current state of eu-russia relations and a fair analysis of the reasons, in particular the russian aggression against ukraine, the illegal annexation of crimea and the facts of moscow's continued expansionist policy. i agree that russia is now a dangerous challenge and a close security risk to the union, while the eu is still striving to become an important strategic partner again. i consider it a virtue of the report that it argues for the strengthening of the common foreign and security policy, supporting the efforts of the high representative mogherini. i agree that in all respects, but especially in respect of the minsk agreements and the maintenance of sanctions, the eu must demonstrate unity in strengthening them where necessary. the european parliament, the council and the commission have also adopted a resolution on the situation in the middle east, which calls for the eu to take action to prevent the spread of the virus and to ensure that the situation in the region is not further worsened. i also expect that our present resolution will send a strong signal to the international community and to moscow that the eu stands united and consistent in its support for ukraine's european democratic development, territorial integrity and autonomy, and thus against putin's further european expansionist ambitions.
in writing. ‒ securing energy supplies is one of the biggest challenges facing the european union. the gas crises of 2006 and 2009 made it clear that central and eastern europe is the most vulnerable region today. we need to change this situation by working together, and it's our duty to increase security of supply. i think that the saudargas report, as voted by the committee on industry, research and energy, has provided a good guide to the direction we should take. however, the plenary vote brought together some political groups to vote in favour of an amendment condemning the technology used in research into non-conventional energy sources and recommending that member states do not authorise activities for the exploration and exploitation of non-conventional energy sources until it is proven that they are completely safe. in line with the people's party's position, as a member of the fidesz-kdnp delegation i abstained from voting on the report, as i consider it extremely important that all possible domestic resources are explored in compliance with the mandatory standards in order to increase european security of supply.
in writing. ‒ securing energy supplies is one of the biggest challenges facing the european union. the gas crises of 2006 and 2009 made it clear that central and eastern europe is the most vulnerable region today. we need to change this situation by working together, and it's our duty to increase security of supply. i think that the saudargas report, as voted by the committee on industry, research and energy, has provided a good guide to the direction we should take. however, the plenary vote brought together some political groups to vote in favour of an amendment condemning the technology used in research into non-conventional energy sources and recommending that member states do not authorize research into and exploitation of non-conventional energy sources until they are proven to be completely safe. in line with the people's party's position, as a member of the fidesz-kdnp delegation i abstained from voting on the report, as i consider it extremely important that all possible domestic resources be explored in compliance with the mandatory standards in order to increase european security of supply.
in writing. ensuring the security of energy supply is one of the biggest challenges facing the european union. the gas crises of 2006 and 2009 made it clear that central and eastern europe is the most vulnerable region today. we need to change this situation with our collective strength. it is our duty to increase the security of supply. i think that the saudargas report, as voted by the committee on industry, research and energy, has provided a good guide to the direction we should take. however, the plenary vote brought together some political groups to vote in favour of an amendment condemning the technology used in research into non-conventional energy sources and recommending that member states do not authorise activities for the exploration and exploitation of non-conventional energy sources until it is proven that they are completely safe. in line with the people's party's position, as a member of the fidesz-kdnp delegation i abstained from voting on the report, as i consider it extremely important that all possible domestic resources be explored in compliance with the mandatory standards in order to increase european security of supply.
in writing. ‒ securing energy supplies is one of the biggest challenges facing the european union. the gas crises of 2006 and 2009 made it clear that central and eastern europe is the most vulnerable region today. we need to change this situation by working together, and it's our duty to increase security of supply. i think that the saudargas report, as voted by the committee on industry, research and energy, has provided a good guide to the direction we should take. however, the plenary vote brought together some political groups to vote in favour of an amendment condemning the technology used in research into non-conventional energy sources and recommending that member states do not authorise activities for the exploration and exploitation of non-conventional energy sources until it is proven that they are completely safe. in line with the people's party's position, as a member of the fidesz-kdnp delegation i abstained from voting on the report, as i consider it extremely important that all possible domestic resources be explored in compliance with the mandatory standards in order to increase european security of supply.
in writing. ensuring the security of energy supply is one of the biggest challenges facing the european union. the gas crises of 2006 and 2009 made it clear that central and eastern europe is the most vulnerable region today. we need to change this situation by working together, and it's our duty to increase security of supply. i think that the saudargas report, as voted by the committee on industry, research and energy, has provided a good guide to the direction we should take. however, the plenary vote brought together some political groups to vote in favour of an amendment condemning the technology used in research into non-conventional energy sources and recommending that member states do not authorise activities for the exploration and exploitation of non-conventional energy sources until it is proven that they are completely safe. in line with the people's party's position, as a member of the fidesz-kdnp delegation i abstained from voting on the report, as i consider it extremely important that all possible domestic resources be explored in compliance with the mandatory standards in order to increase european security of supply.
in writing. ‒ securing energy supplies is one of the biggest challenges facing the european union. the gas crises of 2006 and 2009 made it clear that central and eastern europe is the most vulnerable region today. we need to change this situation by working together, and it's our duty to increase security of supply. i think that the saudargas report, as voted by the committee on industry, research and energy, has provided a good guide to the direction we should take. however, the plenary vote brought together some political groups to vote in favour of an amendment condemning the technology used in research into non-conventional energy sources and recommending that member states do not authorise activities for the exploration and exploitation of non-conventional energy sources until it is proven that they are completely safe. in line with the people's party's position, as a member of the fidesz-kdnp delegation i abstained from voting on the report, as i consider it extremely important that all possible domestic resources be explored in compliance with the mandatory standards in order to increase european security of supply.
in writing. ‒ securing energy supplies is one of the biggest challenges facing the european union. the gas crises of 2006 and 2009 made it clear that central and eastern europe is the most vulnerable region today. we need to change this situation with our collective strength. it is our duty to increase the security of supply. i think that the saudargas report, as voted by the committee on industry, research and energy, has provided a good guide to the direction we should take. however, the plenary vote brought together some political groups to vote in favour of an amendment condemning the technology used in research into non-conventional energy sources and recommending that member states do not authorise activities for the exploration and exploitation of non-conventional energy sources until it is proven that they are completely safe. in line with the people's party's position, as a member of the fidesz-kdnp delegation i abstained from voting on the report, as on the one hand the authorisation of mining activities is a competence of the member states, and on the other hand i consider it extremely important that all possible domestic resources are explored in compliance with the mandatory standards in order to increase the security of supply in europe.
in writing. ‒ securing energy supplies is one of the biggest challenges facing the european union. the gas crises of 2006 and 2009 made it clear that central and eastern europe is the most vulnerable region today. we need to change this situation by working together, and it's our duty to increase security of supply. i think that the saudargas report, as voted by the committee on industry, research and energy, has provided a good guide to the direction we should take. however, the plenary vote brought together some political groups to vote in favour of an amendment condemning the technology used in research into non-conventional energy sources and recommending that member states do not authorise activities for the exploration and exploitation of non-conventional energy sources until it is proven that they are completely safe. in line with the people's party's position, as a member of the fidesz-kdnp delegation i abstained from voting on the report, as i consider it extremely important that all possible domestic resources be explored in compliance with the mandatory standards in order to increase european security of supply.
in writing. the entire energy legislation to date is highly controversial, both professionally and from the point of view of the well-being and safety of european citizens, and is subject to economic and global political interests outside europe, according to independent experts. the report is full of omissions and offers no real solutions, and it places an unnecessary burden on the taxpayers, making it unacceptable except in part. energy security requires a very complex technical, economic and political approach, which would have been much more likely in a more calm political climate than it is today.
in writing. ‒ the report prepared in the committee on industry, research and energy summarises in an excellent way what is perhaps the most important issue of european politics in the 21st century, the problems of energy policy, and advocates an adequate response to these, closer european integration and, ultimately, the creation of the energy union. it proposes measures to address the main challenges in this area: reducing energy demand, increasing domestic energy production and developing energy technologies, building a fully integrated and well-functioning internal energy market and establishing solidarity and coordination mechanisms. overall, it is a really long-term strategic document, which i was happy to support.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the european energy security strategy, which sets out a comprehensive approach towards the energy union. in my view, the creation of an energy union is an essential, fundamental interest of the european union. in its creation, it should take into account not only economic but also climate, environmental, trust and social aspects. i think it is important to stress in the context of the crisis in ukraine that the issue of ensuring a reliable energy supply is more important than ever; so is the issue of diversifying energy supplies and over-dependence on energy imports. that is why i agree that energy efficiency, new and renewable energy sources and research and development should be given priority, which can not only create energy security but also jobs. the report focuses on the role of carbon capture and storage and calls for significant research and innovation efforts in this regard, and addresses the risks of nuclear power generation. in the case of projects of common interest, i supported the initiative that the european union should only support projects where all the necessary environmental permits have been obtained.
in writing. ‒ the adoption of the joint motion for a resolution was motivated by the facts and problems identified in the 2014 annual report of the olaf supervisory committee. the olaf dg has made serious criticisms of the management, governance and case management of the european anti-fraud office, which cannot be ignored. the report strongly criticises the procedure in which 423 cases were opened at one time on 1 february 2012 by decision of the director-general without substantive examination of whether olaf's competence in those cases was based on fraud, corruption or any other illegal activity affecting the financial interests of the union. another problem is that the director-general of olaf ignores the recommendations of the supervisory board, having implemented only 8 out of 50 recommendations of the dg. the access of the supervisory board to the information necessary for the performance of its tasks is also not guaranteed, nor is the stable functioning of the secretariat of the bank guaranteed. the resolution calls on the european anti-fraud office and its director-general to address these problems. all the necessary conditions should be provided for the effective functioning of the supervisory committee and its tasks, and the european parliament has a duty to speak out in this regard. i supported the joint motion for a resolution in the plenary vote.
in writing. ‒ the adoption of the joint motion for a resolution was motivated by the facts and problems identified in the 2014 annual report of the olaf supervisory committee. the olaf dg has made serious criticisms of the management, governance and case management of the european anti-fraud office, which cannot be ignored. the report strongly criticises the procedure in which 423 cases were opened at one time on 1 february 2012 by decision of the director-general without substantive examination of whether olaf's competence in those cases was based on fraud, corruption or any other illegal activity affecting the financial interests of the union. another problem is that the director-general of olaf ignores the recommendations of the supervisory board, having implemented only 8 out of 50 recommendations of the dg. the access of the supervisory board to the information necessary for the performance of its tasks is also not guaranteed, nor is the stable functioning of the secretariat of the bank guaranteed. the resolution calls on the european anti-fraud office and its director-general to address these problems. all necessary conditions should be provided for the effective functioning of the supervisory board and for the performance of its tasks. the european parliament has a duty to speak out in this respect. i supported the joint motion for a resolution in the plenary vote.
in writing. the adoption of the joint motion for a resolution was motivated by the facts and problems identified in the 2014 annual report of the olaf supervisory committee. the olaf dg has made serious criticisms of the management, governance and case management of the european anti-fraud office, which cannot be ignored. the report strongly criticises the procedure in which 423 cases were opened at one time on 1 february 2012 by decision of the director-general without substantive examination of whether olaf's competence in those cases was based on fraud, corruption or any other illegal activity affecting the financial interests of the union. another problem is that the director-general of olaf ignores the recommendations of the supervisory board, having implemented only 8 out of 50 recommendations of the dg. the access of the supervisory board to the information necessary for the performance of its tasks is also not guaranteed, nor is the stable functioning of the secretariat of the bank guaranteed. the resolution calls on the european anti-fraud office and its director-general to address these problems. all the necessary conditions should be provided for the effective functioning of the supervisory committee and its tasks, and the european parliament has a duty to speak out in this regard. i supported the joint motion for a resolution in the plenary vote.
in writing. ‒ the adoption of the joint motion for a resolution was motivated by the facts and problems identified in the 2014 annual report of the olaf supervisory committee. the olaf dg has made serious criticisms of the management, governance and case management of the european anti-fraud office, which cannot be ignored. the report strongly criticises the procedure in which 423 cases were opened at one time on 1 february 2012 by decision of the director-general without substantive examination of whether olaf's competence in those cases was based on fraud, corruption or any other illegal activity affecting the financial interests of the union. another problem is that the director-general of olaf ignores the recommendations of the supervisory board, having implemented only 8 out of 50 recommendations of the dg. the access of the supervisory board to the information necessary for the performance of its tasks is also not guaranteed, nor is the stable functioning of the secretariat of the bank guaranteed. the resolution calls on the european anti-fraud office and its director-general to address these problems. all the necessary conditions should be provided for the effective functioning of the supervisory committee and for the performance of its tasks, and the european parliament has a duty to speak out in this regard. i supported the joint motion for a resolution in the plenary vote.
in writing. ‒ the adoption of the joint motion for a resolution was motivated by the facts and problems identified in the 2014 annual report of the olaf supervisory committee. the olaf dg has made serious criticisms of the management, governance and case management of the european anti-fraud office, which cannot be ignored. the report strongly criticises the procedure in which 423 cases were opened at one time on 1 february 2012 by decision of the director-general without substantive examination of whether olaf's competence in those cases was based on fraud, corruption or any other illegal activity affecting the financial interests of the union. another problem is that the director-general of olaf ignores the recommendations of the supervisory board, having implemented only 8 out of 50 recommendations of the dg. the access of the supervisory board to the information necessary for the performance of its tasks is also not guaranteed, nor is the stable functioning of the secretariat of the bank guaranteed. the resolution calls on the european anti-fraud office and its director-general to address these problems. all the necessary conditions should be provided for the effective functioning of the supervisory committee and for the performance of its tasks, and the european parliament has a duty to speak out in this regard. i supported the joint motion for a resolution in the plenary vote.
in writing. ‒ the adoption of the joint motion for a resolution was motivated by the facts and problems identified in the 2014 annual report of the olaf supervisory committee. the olaf dg has made serious criticisms of the management, governance and case management of the european anti-fraud office, which cannot be ignored. the report strongly criticises the procedure in which 423 cases were opened at one time on 1 february 2012 by decision of the director-general without substantive examination of whether olaf's competence in those cases was based on fraud, corruption or any other illegal activity affecting the financial interests of the union. another problem is that the director-general of olaf ignores the recommendations of the supervisory board, having implemented only 8 out of 50 recommendations of the dg. the access of the supervisory board to the information necessary for the performance of its tasks is also not guaranteed, nor is the stable functioning of the secretariat of the bank guaranteed. the resolution calls on the european anti-fraud office and its director-general to address these problems. all the necessary conditions should be provided for the effective functioning of the supervisory committee and for the performance of its tasks, and the european parliament has a duty to speak out in this regard. i supported the joint motion for a resolution in the plenary vote.
in writing. ‒ the adoption of the joint motion for a resolution was motivated by the facts and problems identified in the 2014 annual report of the committee of inquiry of the european anti-fraud office (olaf). the olaf dg has made serious criticisms of the management, governance and case management of the european anti-fraud office, which cannot be ignored. the report strongly criticises the procedure in which 423 cases were opened at one time on 1 february 2012 by decision of the director-general without substantive examination of whether olaf's competence in those cases was based on fraud, corruption or any other illegal activity affecting the financial interests of the union. another problem is that the director-general of olaf ignores the recommendations of the supervisory board, having implemented only 8 out of 50 recommendations of the dg. the access of the supervisory board to the information necessary for the performance of its tasks is also not guaranteed, nor is the stable functioning of the secretariat of the bank guaranteed. the resolution calls for the european anti-fraud office and its director-general to be given the means to ensure the effective functioning of the supervisory committee and to ensure that it fulfils its tasks, and the european parliament has a duty to speak out in this regard. i supported the joint motion for a resolution in the plenary vote, in line with the position of the hungarian people's party delegation.
‒ the facts and problems identified in the report. the olaf dg has made serious criticisms of the management, governance and case management of the european anti-fraud office, which cannot be ignored. the report strongly criticises the procedure in which 423 cases were opened at one time on 1 february 2012 by decision of the director-general without substantive examination of whether olaf's competence in those cases was based on fraud, corruption or any other illegal activity affecting the financial interests of the union. another problem is that the director-general of olaf ignores the recommendations of the supervisory board, having implemented only 8 out of 50 recommendations of the dg. the access of the supervisory board to the information necessary for the performance of its tasks is also not guaranteed, nor is the stable functioning of the secretariat of the bank guaranteed. the resolution calls on the european anti-fraud office and its director-general to address these problems. all the necessary conditions should be provided for the effective functioning of the supervisory committee and for the performance of its tasks, and the european parliament has a duty to speak out in this regard. i supported the joint motion for a resolution in the plenary vote.
in writing. ‒ as a representative of a country which has given olaf a particularly heavy burden and where olaf has unfortunately had a remarkable number of investigations which have led to positive results, i have a very high regard for olaf's work. of the three draft resolutions, the s&d motion is the one that most reflects my opinion of olaf's activities and i therefore voted for it.
in writing. ‒ i did not vote in favour of the motion for a joint resolution on the 2014 annual report of the olaf supervisory committee because i thought that the proposed resolution of the socialist and democratic group (s&d) painted a much more accurate picture of the situation. i voted in favour of the s&d resolution, but this draft resolution was not put to the vote because the motion for a joint resolution was adopted. however, i would like to stress that the european anti-fraud office is a key player in the protection of the union's financial interests. the performance of olaf in 2014, as summarised in its annual report, is noteworthy and welcome. at the same time, every single issue in dispute with the audit committee needs to be fully clarified so that internal conflicts do not in the slightest way hinder the fight against corruption. this requires a smooth exchange of information and full transparency between olaf and the audit committee.
mr. president, on the subject of the violation of the rule of law in hungary, i would like to recommend some more serious ones for a possible serious report. one: systematic corruption, show-off, lack of transparency in the allocation and distribution of eu funds and hungarian public funds. two: foreign currency borrowers, the misery of hundreds of thousands of families, violations of consumer protection laws. in this context, a complaint about infringements of this law has been lodged with the committee on petitions of the european parliament for three months, let us finally see the decision! thirdly, it is a gross violation of the fundamental standards of the european union that nurses, social workers, teachers working in the public sector have salaries of between 200 and 300 euros, but that manual workers working in assembly plants with full employment rights have the same income. i'd like to have that investigated and reported to you if necessary.
mr president, the motion for a resolution on the situation in hungary condemns viktor orbán and his government. the european parliament is thus demonstrating that it does not respect its own values, freedom of expression. because of course you can disagree with the issues raised by the prime minister or the related social consultation, but this does not constitute a violation of european values that would justify the inclusion of this issue on the agenda. the decision has no concrete consequences. in the hungarian media, viktor orbán can appear as someone who not only defended himself and his government, but also hungary against the undignified attack. the prime minister is happy to appear on the stage of the european union for this purpose. it is much more tragic for the future of hungary that fidesz, the representative of the hungarian government party, together with three colleagues, sent letters to the deputies in which euusa campaigns for the adoption of the free trade agreement.
in writing. ‒ as a member of the fidesz-kdnp parliamentary group, i did not support the resolution against hungary in any way. the joint resolution of the socialists, liberals, greens and communists ignores the facts, is full of slips and factual errors. it reminds me of the tavares report on hungary, a rather weak version of it. he wants to put hungary under a special monitoring procedure, and he is putting article 7 into perspective, which involves suspending membership rights, completely without foundation. it ignores the divergent positions of member states on subsidiarity and immigration. decisions like this, which are hysterical, are only for the benefit of extreme eu skeptics.
in writing. ‒ as a member of the fidesz-kdnp parliamentary group, i did not support the resolution against hungary in any way. the joint resolution of the socialists, liberals, greens and communists ignores the facts, is full of slips and factual errors. it reminds me of the tavares report on hungary, a rather weak version of it. he wants to put hungary under a special monitoring procedure, and he is putting article 7 into perspective, which involves suspending membership rights, completely without foundation. it ignores the divergent positions of member states on subsidiarity and immigration. decisions like this, which are hysterical, are only for the benefit of extreme eu skeptics.
in writing. as a member of the fidesz-kdnp parliamentary group, i did not support the decision against hungary in any way. the joint resolution of the socialists, liberals, greens and communists ignores the facts, is full of slips and factual errors. it reminds me of the tavares report on hungary, a rather weak version of it. he wants to put hungary under a special monitoring procedure, he also puts the possibility of article 7 enforcement, which involves the suspension of membership rights, completely without foundation. it ignores the divergent positions of member states on subsidiarity and immigration. hysteria-inducing decisions like this are only for the benefit of extreme eu skeptics.
in writing. ‒ as a member of the fidesz-kdnp parliamentary group, i did not support the resolution against hungary in any way. the joint resolution of the socialists, liberals, greens and communists ignores the facts, is full of slips and factual errors. it reminds me of the tavares report on hungary, a rather weak version of it. he wants to put hungary under a special monitoring procedure, and he is putting article 7 into perspective, which involves suspending membership rights, completely without foundation. it ignores the divergent positions of member states on subsidiarity and immigration. decisions like this, which are hysterical, are only for the benefit of extreme eu skeptics.
in writing. ‒ as a member of the fidesz-kdnp parliamentary group, i did not support the resolution against hungary in any way. the joint resolution of the socialists, liberals, greens and communists ignores the facts, is full of slips and factual errors. it reminds me of the tavares report on hungary, a rather weak version of it. he wants to put hungary under a special monitoring procedure, and he is putting article 7 into perspective, which involves suspending membership rights, completely without foundation. it ignores the divergent positions of member states on subsidiarity and immigration. decisions like this, which are hysterical, are only for the benefit of extreme eu skeptics.
in writing. ‒ as a member of the fidesz-kdnp parliamentary group, i did not support the resolution against hungary in any way. the joint resolution of the socialists, liberals, greens and communists ignores the facts, is full of slips and factual errors. it reminds me of the tavares report on hungary, a rather weak version of it. he wants to put hungary under a special monitoring procedure, and he is putting article 7 into perspective, which involves suspending membership rights, completely without foundation. it ignores the divergent positions of member states on subsidiarity and immigration. decisions like this, which are hysterical, are only for the benefit of extreme eu skeptics.
in writing. ‒ as a member of the fidesz-kdnp parliamentary group, i did not support the resolution against hungary in any way. the joint resolution of the socialists, liberals, greens and communists ignores the facts, is full of slips and factual errors. it reminds me of the tavares report on hungary, a rather weak version of it. he wants to put hungary under a special monitoring procedure, and he is putting article 7 into perspective, which involves suspending membership rights, completely without foundation. it ignores the divergent positions of member states on subsidiarity and immigration. hysteria-inducing decisions like this are only for the benefit of extreme eu skeptics.
in writing. ‒ as a member of the fidesz-kdnp parliamentary group, i did not support the resolution against hungary in any way. the joint resolution of the socialists, liberals, greens and communists ignores the facts, is full of slips and factual errors. it is reminiscent of the tavares report on hungary adopted in 2013, but this is a rather poorly executed version of it. he wants to put hungary under a special monitoring procedure, he also puts the possibility of article 7 enforcement, which involves the suspension of membership rights, completely without foundation. it ignores the subsidiarity of member states and the different positions of member states on immigration. decisions like this, which are hysterical, are only for the benefit of extreme eu skeptics.
in writing. ‒ as a member of the fidesz-kdnp parliamentary group, i did not support the resolution against hungary in any way. the joint resolution of the socialists, liberals, greens and communists ignores the facts, is full of slips and factual errors. it reminds me of the tavares report on hungary, a rather weak version of it. he wants to put hungary under a special monitoring procedure, and he is putting article 7 into perspective, which involves suspending membership rights, completely without foundation. it ignores the divergent positions of member states on subsidiarity and immigration. decisions like this, which are hysterical, are only for the benefit of extreme eu skeptics.
in writing. ‒ the european parliament, with a convincing majority, supported by some of the epp members, adopted a resolution condemning the hungarian government's pro-death penalty policy and the xenophobic national consultation and poster campaign. the ep has asked the european commission to open an inquiry procedure which could lead to the application of article 7 of the eu treaty, which could even mean the suspension of the hungarian government's voting rights. the decision does not criticise hungary, but the policy of the hungarian government. the ep finally adopted the draft jointly tabled by the left, green and liberal groups, which i myself supported. however, the motion for a resolution by fidesz's own party family, the european people's party, has been criticised at least as severely as the text submitted by the other parties. the people's party proposal states that the content and language of the national consultation are 'extremely misleading, biased and unbalanced' and that the death penalty 'is contrary to the fundamental values and law of the union and therefore the matter is closed in the union'. this is further proof that there is no leftist conspiracy against hungary, but that the policy of the hungarian government, regardless of party affiliation, is considered unacceptable in europe.
in writing. i consider this report to be completely unreliable, and on that basis i voted against it.
in writing. ‒ as a member of the fidesz-kdnp parliamentary group, i did not support the resolution against hungary in any way. the joint resolution of the socialists, liberals, greens and communists ignores the facts, is full of slips and factual errors. it reminds me of the tavares report on hungary, a rather weak version of it. he wants to put hungary under a special monitoring procedure, and he is putting article 7 into perspective, which involves suspending membership rights, completely without foundation. it ignores the divergent positions of member states on subsidiarity and immigration. hysteria-inducing decisions like this are only for the benefit of extreme eu skeptics.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution on the political situation in my country because i believe that it accurately reflects the critical remarks made in the plenary debate and gives a firm, dignified response to the provocation of hungarian prime minister viktor orbán, who has challenged europe's own anti-democratic policy by making the death penalty a theme and treating international terrorism and migration as the same threat, and in this context by brutally attacking the eu. as a hungarian democrat, i am grateful for the political and moral support of the majority of the ep in this form. however, i consider it particularly valuable that the decision not only sends an important message to the hungarian government but also sets out eu-wide monitoring and legislative requirements for the council, the european council and the commission, with a deadline for implementation, in order to ensure that european democratic values are implemented more effectively in the member states than ever before. in my decision, i also considered the specific hungarian experience, according to which orbán regularly provokes controversial topics and measures that he does not actually intend to implement, but at the same time they can effectively distract the attention of the european and domestic public from the system of corruption and abuse of power that is now completely permeating his government. the criticism and condemnation in the resolution is also justified because meps cannot tolerate the hungarian leader attacking the eu and its values while using the ep as a public forum for his populist rhetoric.
mr president, the report on the progress of turkey's accession to the eu takes stock, taking account of progress and shortcomings. it is natural that the conditions for accession also include certain expected requirements for social relations. but in this, i think it's going beyond the acceptable. when the eu started negotiations with turkey, a new situation emerged. at that time, the founding countries and the countries that joined were christian religions, countries belonging to the christian culture. we started negotiations with a country with a large muslim population, where, by the way, religion has a much greater influence on social relations. i think that we should take this into account, we cannot pretend that in every aspect, in every social situation, they have the same expectations in an islamic country as in a christian country, and this has not been taken into account in any way in this report, which is why i abstained in voting on it.
in writing. ‒ the report is balanced, realistic, and takes account of both the few new achievements of turkey in meeting the copenhagen criteria and the regrettable number of setbacks in recent years. i supported the adoption of the report.
in writing. ‒ i supported the adoption of the report because it faithfully and comprehensively reflects the eu-turkey relations and the current state of the accession process. i also kept in mind that turkey's importance as a strategic partner of the eu has increased over the past year, primarily because of the threat of international terrorism and the dramatic refugee situation. i also think it is important that the report gives due weight to the issues of energy cooperation. at the same time, i agree with the view expressed in the report that our support and solidarity cannot be a reason to ignore the fact that the situation of fundamental human and civil rights in the country has not improved significantly, and in some areas has even worsened. i believe that the decline in the attractiveness of the european alternative and values in turkish society has been largely due to the eu side: the delay in the accession negotiations, the backlog of enlargement in the current plans of the commission and the council have had the same effect. progress is urgent because of the importance of turkey, and i was pleased to see the report calling for more openness from the eu, not less, and for the membership perspective to be strengthened and made more tangible. i am confident that constructive, supportive policies on the part of the eu could also have played a role in the outcome of last week's parliamentary elections in turkey, which offer the prospect of a more pluralistic, tolerant and democratic internal development.
it's a two-card draw. mr landsbergis has very rightly mentioned that the russian side is testing, experimenting and pushing the limits of the european community's tolerance with its operations, and i certainly agree that a disciplined and common response is needed. but what tools do you see in the hands of the european bodies to deal more effectively with individual member states that undermine common action? orban, hungary, for example.
i'll close this discussion. the vote will take place on thursday 11 june 2015. the commission shall be assisted by the committee established by article 15 of regulation (eu) no 182/2011.
in writing. the crimean peninsula, donated by khrushchev to the ussr in 1954, was a multiethnic scene, well-connected with russians, tatars, ukrainians and other nationalities. unfortunately, this place has now become a military training ground, one of russia's main military bases. according to the accounts of crimean tatars expelled from crimea, the new authorities restrict ethnic and national minorities. sadly, this beautiful landscape, which includes traces of persian, greek, roman, and turkish cultures, and which was not so long ago one of ukraine's most popular tourist destinations, has become a military base and a dumping ground for nuclear-capable heavy bombers. as russia has increased its military presence in the black sea basin, in the occupied regions of the crimean peninsula, abkhazia, part of georgia, and south ossetia, part of moldova, in the transnistrian region, and has increased its air and sea defence forces, developing new naval defence missiles and ensuring that russian fighter jets control three quarters of the airspace of the black sea basin, the european union should pay attention to this, as its external borders are thus increasingly threatened. it is important that russia implements the minsk ceasefire agreements, but contrary to point 16 of the report, i believe that the conflict can only be resolved peacefully through negotiations. the eu should develop a unified strategy for dealing with conflicts in the black sea basin, taking the interests and security of the civilian population into account.
the following point is inserted after point 2 of the annex to the eea agreement:
thank you for your comments, mr. deputy. we have already had one adjournment today, so we cannot go into that now, but we have taken your request and will pass on this motion. i'll give the floor to the independent, congressman bay, in a minute.
i see you have further agenda items, and i'd obviously like to say that there's a possibility of adjournment. i'll inform you that according to the article cited, you have no such possibility. is there anything you'd like to add? we are both reading the same article, and it would be possible to do so if 40 members were to stand up and ask for the sitting to be postponed, which i doubt they would be able to do, before the debate. there you go, congressman.
thank you for your further suggestion, congressman. i'll say it again, we're reading the same article. i'd like to see 40 members of congress support this motion. obviously, you see what i see, that there are no 40 representatives. the president does not ask, but may ask on behalf of a political ... (the president dismisses the members who interrupted him) ... or a political group. on behalf of which group do you wish to make this request? and who would like to ask on behalf of the group? please, spread it out.
(the president admonishes the members to remain calm and to be patient) who wishes to speak against it?
my question was, does anyone wish to object to the adjournment of the meeting or not? does anyone wish to speak for him? do you have time for a democratic debate or do you want to keep shouting? i'm not giving you my word. i'll give the floor to whoever wants to speak with him, another member of the house. you will be voting, mr. representative, when i open the voting. i'll open it and we'll vote on it. does anyone wish to speak against it? do you wish to speak for him? you have to be patient. you are much more patient than you have been in the past, because the honourable member is right that you are not respecting the house, and i am asking you to respect it! congressman, please don't shout. you must be patient and behave as the dignity of the house requires. thank you, congressman, for speaking so loudly that i can hear you without a microphone.
thank you for your comments, congressman. my colleagues in the house are so loud that i didn't hear it, but if you did, we'll take note of that. i'll give the floor to the congresswoman and then i'll make a decision.
my fellow delegates, i inform you that a vote will be taken. not now, of course, but i'm adjourned for half an hour and we'll proceed to a vote. (the debate was suspended at 5.45 p.m. and resumed at 6.15 p.m.)
mr telička, you have the floor for a point of order.
thank you, congresswoman. i inform my colleagues that this is indeed the case, pursuant to rule 191. do you have any further comments for the representative?
thank you for your remarks to the member of parliament. just a little patience, please. i think this is a very important issue, and i ask my colleagues to be patient with each other and to listen to each other, but let me also tell you what has happened to my colleagues in the chamber who are interested in this subject: under rule 191 ... (interruption of the president) congressman, do you have a point of order? there you go.
you may continue, congressman. before there is any misunderstanding, i have suspended the sitting because there was a lot more chaos in the chamber than there is now, and i have exercised my right under article 22 of the rules of procedure. that's why we're voting now. those who vote to continue the debate vote yes, those who vote to discontinue vote no. i call the vote. (parliament rejected the request by electronic vote (29 in favour, 390 against, 17 abstentions))
we now come to the statement by the vice-president of the commission and high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy on the situation in burundi.
i'll close this discussion. the vote shall be taken at a later sitting. the commission shall be assisted by the committee established by article 15 of regulation (eu) no 182/2011.
the following is the statement by the council and the commission on information uncovered in connection with high-level corruption cases in fifa (2015/2730 ((rsp)).
in writing. the corruption scandals that have erupted in recent weeks, the related arrests, resignations have shaken fifa, and they also foresee the possibility of renewal and purification of the organization. at the same time, we cannot forget that in qatar, the host of the 2022 world cup, guest workers working on stadium construction are living and working in inhumane conditions, which have already led to the deaths of more than a thousand people. it is common practice for workers to have their passports taken away, not be paid for months, not have access to adequate drinking water while working in the desert heat, and live in inhumane conditions in overcrowded workers' hostels. if no substantial improvement occurs, some estimates suggest that up to 4,000 people may die before the world war ii-related construction is completed. the european union cannot remain silent, we cannot stand by and watch the continuing violation of human rights guaranteed by the conventions! we can't leave without the responsibility of the sponsoring companies. how long will these companies lend their name and money to modern day slavery? it is intolerable that in the 21st century, in one of the richest countries in the world, we are held in virtual slavery and ruthlessly exploited by our fellow human beings. the commission and the member states must act immediately to ensure that human rights are fully respected, and we must set an example! if qatar is unwilling to take substantive and immediate action, i do not consider the boycott of the qatari-hosted world cup to be unjustified.
in writing. palmyra in syria may be the latest world heritage site to be vandalized by islamic state fighters. we see every day that the cultural purge of daesh is going on relentlessly. in iraq, they are executing the destruction of a 2,000-year-old christian community, the expulsion of the indigenous yazidi and turkmen populations, the eradication of ancient cultures. the trade in movable art is also a major source of funding for terrorism. this time, the walls of palmyra, one of the most special collective heritages of humanity, the remnants of assyrian civilization, are under attack by the islamic state. the greatest destruction in modern world history is being carried out by jihadists before our eyes, exhausting the concept of a crime against humanity. however, violence has now targeted the christian community in the palmyra area. the jihadists have removed a number of christian leaders in syria, this time father jacques mourad, who ran the nearby mar elias monastery, was kidnapped by extremists. the monastery has been home to many refugees from the civil war-torn area, regardless of religion. it is noteworthy that local muslim leaders have also demanded the immediate release of the monk from the international community. i recommend that international and european governments and security services make every effort to detect similar crimes in the region and to free the hostages. this is not just a religious issue, but a matter of standing up for basic human rights.
madam president, i would like to ask the european parliament and the european union to set up a professional body to examine what we mean by national self-determination today in the final sense of the rule of law and in legal terms. i cannot accept that when the interests of the western world demand it, for example in the case of kosovo, national self-determination means something different than, say, in the case of crimea. i cannot accept that the concept of national self-determination and autonomy in south tyrol is different from that in the case of, say, the szeklerland, the upper, the lower and the transcarpathian regions. the european union talks as much about the rule of law as it does about values. the rule of law means that law is predictable, objective and not dependent on political expediency. it would therefore be important to state, on the basis of research, with the involvement of experts, for example by examining and using the decision of the human rights court on kosovo, that the concept of national self-determination should be interpreted uniformly.
in writing. ‒ the report aims to respond to the changes in the strategic relationship between the black sea basin and the surrounding area brought about by russia's illegal annexation of the crimean peninsula. the report highlights that the increasing russian military presence in the black sea and the deployment of nuclear-capable assets in crimea require the continuation and strengthening of sanctions against russia, provided that it does not change its policy towards ukraine. the report calls on the european union to continue its initiatives to diversify the energy resources of the black sea and encourages member states to take steps to reduce their energy dependence. it is important that russia implement the minsk ceasefire agreements, but contrary to point 16 of the report, i believe that the conflict can only be resolved peacefully, through negotiations. it calls for the importance of cooperation with partner states along the black sea coast in the common security and defence policy to be recognised and for the osce to be supported in its initiatives to enhance its presence and alleviate the security situation in the region. in line with the position of the pp group, i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ the report aims to respond to the changes in the strategic relationship between the black sea basin and the surrounding area brought about by russia's illegal annexation of the crimean peninsula. the report highlights that the increasing russian military presence in the black sea and the deployment of nuclear-capable assets in crimea require the continuation and strengthening of sanctions against russia, provided that it does not change its policy towards ukraine. the report calls on the european union to continue its initiatives to diversify the energy resources of the black sea and encourages member states to take steps to reduce their energy dependence. it calls for the importance of cooperation with partner states along the black sea coast in the common security and defence policy to be recognised and for the osce to be supported in its initiatives to enhance its presence and alleviate the security situation in the region. i agree with the above objectives and, in line with the position of the ppe group, i voted in favour of the adoption of the report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report, as the black sea basin is one of the most strategically important regions in the world, and is of key importance for the union and its member states, in particular for their security and defence. the report on the situation in the black sea basin following the illegal annexation of the crimean peninsula by russia as a matter of priority requires attention, as the black sea basin is a highly important external border of the european union and therefore a priority strategic area. however, i am concerned that the illegal annexation of the crimean peninsula has brought about a significant change in the strategic relations of the black sea basin and the surrounding area and i believe that russia's aggressive actions represent a step back from the approach of inter-bloc hostility. a further problem is the changing strategic environment, the evolving military situation in the black sea basin and the forcible annexation of the crimean peninsula by russia, which pose a broader and systemic challenge to the post-cold war european security architecture based on norms.
in writing. ‒ the report aims to respond to the changes in the strategic relationship between the black sea basin and the surrounding area brought about by russia's illegal annexation of the crimean peninsula. the report highlights that the increasing russian military presence in the black sea and the deployment of nuclear-capable assets in crimea require the continuation and strengthening of sanctions against russia, provided that it does not change its policy towards ukraine. the report calls on the european union to continue its initiatives to diversify the energy resources of the black sea and encourages member states to take steps to reduce their energy dependence. it calls for the importance of cooperation with partner states along the black sea coast in the common security and defence policy to be recognised and for the osce to be supported in its initiatives to enhance its presence and alleviate the security situation in the region. i agree with the above objectives and, in line with the position of the ppe group, i voted in favour of the adoption of the report.
in writing. ‒ the report aims to respond to the changes in the strategic relationship between the black sea basin and the surrounding area brought about by russia's illegal annexation of the crimean peninsula. the report highlights that the increasing russian military presence in the black sea and the deployment of nuclear-capable assets in crimea require the continuation and strengthening of sanctions against russia, provided that it does not change its policy towards ukraine. the report calls on the european union to continue its initiatives to diversify the energy resources of the black sea and encourages member states to take steps to reduce their energy dependence. it calls for the importance of cooperation with partner states along the black sea coast in the common security and defence policy to be recognised and for the osce to be supported in its initiatives to enhance its presence and alleviate the security situation in the region. i agree with the above objectives and, in line with the position of the ppe group, i voted in favour of the adoption of the report.
in writing. ‒ i consider the report to be very important not only because of its narrow subject matter, but also because it looks at the russian federation's increasingly aggressive foreign policy and, as part of this, the threat of war against russia's neighbours. i have no doubt that the current russian leadership cannot be contained or appeased by concessions, by generous gestures. the european union (and nato) must show strength to counter russia's violent actions against other neighbours, including possibly eu member states. i consider the report to be a step in the right direction and have therefore voted in favour of it.
in writing. ‒ the report aims to respond to the changes in the strategic relationship between the black sea basin and the surrounding region brought about by russia's illegal annexation of the crimean peninsula. the report highlights that the growing russian military presence in the black sea and the deployment of nuclear-capable assets in crimea require the continuation and strengthening of sanctions against russia, provided that it does not change its policy towards ukraine. the report calls on the european union to continue its initiatives to diversify the energy resources of the black sea and encourages member states to take steps to reduce their energy dependence. it calls for the importance of cooperation with partner states along the black sea coast in the common security and defence policy to be recognised and for the osce to be supported in its initiatives to enhance its presence and alleviate the security situation in the region. i agree with the above objectives and, in line with the position of the ppe group, i voted in favour of the adoption of the report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report, given that i had already supported another important report on eu-russia relations on a closely related subject. in this resolution, the ep delivered a clear verdict for the world and for moscow on the illegal annexation of the crimean peninsula and the ukrainian military violence as the main cause of the deterioration of relations. the report referred to here, focusing on the black sea region, adds important geopolitical and military aspects to all this and sets out clear european expectations towards nato and other strategic partners in assessing and managing putin's policy. i regarded as a particularly important political insight the report's statement that putin is currently testing the limits of tolerance of the eu and the democratic international community in the mediterranean for his further expansionist aims. i believe that these putinist aspirations, which may even pose a direct threat to some eu member states, make it a direct task and responsibility of the eu and the ep to respond effectively to the russian challenge. in this context, i believe it is important for the future of european foreign and security policy to heed the warnings and recommendations of the report.
in writing. ‒ football and sport in general have a significant positive social impact on the daily lives of millions of citizens and especially young people . sport is a large and fast-growing sector of the union's economy, making a significant contribution to growth and job creation. the resignation of joseph blatter and the arrest of fifa officials have created the conditions for a radical reform of fifa's structures and practices, which is needed to improve the governance and to clean the organisation of corruption and which must be implemented urgently. football is by far the most popular sport in the world. it is therefore of the utmost importance that we put an end to all forms of corruption that can tarnish the integrity and reputation of football. the european parliament urges the fifa executive committee to implement structural reforms to achieve transparency and accountability within fifa and to ensure open, balanced and democratic decision-making processes. we call on uefa and the national football associations to step up their efforts to implement the fundamental internal reforms of fifa, and in particular the recommendations of the resolution adopted today, by 2016. in line with the position of the fidesz-kdnp group, i voted in favour of the adoption of the motion.
in writing. ‒ football and sport in general have a significant positive social impact on the daily lives of millions of citizens and especially young people . sport is a large and fast-growing sector of the union's economy, making a significant contribution to growth and job creation. the resignation of joseph blatter and the arrest of fifa officials have created the conditions for a radical reform of fifa's structures and practices, which is needed to improve the governance and to clean the organisation of corruption and which must be implemented urgently. football is by far the most popular sport in the world. it is therefore of the utmost importance that we put an end to all forms of corruption that can tarnish the integrity and reputation of football. the european parliament urges the fifa executive committee to implement structural reforms to achieve transparency and accountability within fifa and to ensure open, balanced and democratic decision-making processes. we call on uefa and the national football associations to step up their efforts to implement the fundamental internal reforms of fifa, and in particular the recommendations of the resolution adopted today, by 2016. in line with the position of the fidesz-kdnp group, i voted in favour of the adoption of the motion.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the motion, as on 27 may 2015 14 fifa officials, including the vice-president, were arrested by the swiss authorities in zurich. the arrests were made at the request of the us department of justice on charges of money laundering, extortion, fraud and bribery amounting to us$150 million. furthermore, given that the swiss and united states authorities have launched separate criminal investigations into the way the 2018 and 2022 world cups were awarded to russia and qatar, the issue also requires attention and thorough investigation. fifa has operated for many years as an unaccountable, non-transparent and notoriously corrupt organisation; as recent arrests confirm that fraud and corruption within fifa is systemic, widespread and persistent. in view of the above, i urge fifa to impose strict ethical standards and a code of conduct for the management and the executive committee, and to have these standards monitored by an independent audit body. i support the proposal that sports governing bodies reduce their risk of falling victim to corruption by committing to good governance practices and increased transparency.
in writing. ‒ football and sport in general have a significant positive social impact on the daily lives of millions of citizens and especially young people . sport is a large and fast-growing sector of the union's economy, making a significant contribution to growth and job creation. the resignation of joseph blatter and the arrest of fifa officials have created the conditions for a radical reform of fifa's structures and practices, which is needed to improve the governance and to clean the organisation of corruption and which must be implemented urgently. football is by far the most popular sport in the world. it is therefore of the utmost importance that we put an end to all forms of corruption that can tarnish the integrity and reputation of football. the european parliament urges the fifa executive committee to implement structural reforms to achieve transparency and accountability within fifa and to ensure open, balanced and democratic decision-making processes. we call on uefa and the national football associations to step up their efforts to implement the fundamental internal reforms of fifa, and in particular the recommendations of the resolution adopted today, by 2016. in line with the position of the fidesz-kdnp group, i voted in favour of the adoption of the motion.
in writing. ‒ football, and sport in general, has a significant positive social impact on the daily lives of millions of citizens and especially young people . sport is a large and fast-growing sector of the union's economy, making a significant contribution to growth and job creation. the resignation of joseph blatter and the arrest of fifa officials have created the conditions for a radical reform of fifa's structures and practices, which is needed to improve the governance and to clean the organisation of corruption and which must be implemented urgently. football is by far the most popular sport in the world. it is therefore vital that we end all forms of corruption that poison this sport and tarnish its reputation. parliament urged the fifa executive committee to implement the necessary structural reforms to achieve transparency and accountability within fifa and to ensure open, balanced and democratic decision-making processes. we call on uefa and the national football associations to step up their efforts to implement the fundamental internal reforms of fifa, and in particular the recommendations of the resolution adopted today, by 2016. in line with the position of the fidesz-kdnp group, i voted in favour of the adoption of the motion.
in writing. ‒ all seven parliamentary groups submitted draft resolutions, all condemning the corrupt practices uncovered at fifa, expressing concern at the loss of fifa's credibility and urging action to restore it as soon as possible. the draft resolution put to the vote was a joint proposal drawn up on the basis of these seven motions and thus enjoyed the support of all the political forces represented in the ep. the draft rightly states that football is the most popular sport in the world and must be protected from being overshadowed by what happened at fifa, but it is also an industry that moves huge sums of money, so that corrupt practices can cause direct and extensive financial damage. it is not only about settling the case and removing the consequences, but also about preventing a repeat of such a case in the long term by creating a public, transparent and democratic functioning. i agree with the draft.
in writing. the key to creating a single market is to eliminate market fragmentation. to this end, it is necessary to accelerate the harmonisation of legislation, develop networks and create the right regulatory and investment environment to develop the most modern services possible. market consolidation does not lead to clearly better service and prices, so room must be given to other players: competition has its place in the market. the promotion of competitiveness involves improving the investment environment, which is particularly important for start-ups and smes. in addition to ensuring the free movement of goods and services, the portability of copyright-protected content across europe and even the world is essential. one of the necessary conditions for competition is to ensure a level playing field. the commission notes that the commission has not provided any evidence that the measure is selective. in the debate, the voice of telecommunications providers should be heard, who argue that the regulation in its current form gives an unfair competitive advantage to ott providers. however, we must not forget that the interests of consumers must also be taken into account.
in writing. the hungarian government crossed the rubicon this week: because of its provocative, xenophobic policy, hungary could again lose heavy eu billions, or we could be excluded from the schengen zone. this is due to the government suspending the application of the dublin regulation on the readmission of refugees this week, citing technical difficulties. the hungarian government, which has championed christian values, is persecuting refugees rather than protecting them. orbán and his government have turned their backs on european solidarity, and have denied their most basic responsibility to asylum seekers. we cannot imagine a european union in which the member states are just holding their hands out for eu aid and canceling obligations they do not like. the government is clearly in breach of eu law at the moment: there is no possibility of suspending the dublin regulation: if a crisis situation arises, a joint solution must be found with the commission. the hungarian government's anti-foreigner immigration policy does not offer a solution to the refugee crisis, but is the root of the problem. by violating eu law, building barbed wire fences and launching a poster campaign, we can only deprive ourselves of eu funds, but this will not reduce the number of refugees. viktor orbán and his government have permanently written themselves out of europe, but hungary will eat the letter.
in writing. i recognise that there is a need to treat refugees fleeing immediate danger to their lives for political reasons differently from the masses of migrants arriving at the eu's borders for economic reasons mostly to escape from starvation, which is also a threat to their lives. however, they are all entitled to assistance based on european solidarity. instead, it exacerbates the problem and causes almost irreparable political damage when the government of one member state portrays all refugees as potential criminals and terrorists in the eyes of the general public. this is both a threat to the eu's already difficult-to-build solidarity and cooperation on this issue and a threat to our chances of more effective international action and the international fight against terrorism. unfortunately, this is exactly what the orbán government is doing, when it incites against refugees in a pr campaign, while denigrating the commission's migration agenda and quota proposal as simply 'madness'. this etuc meeting is the right level, forum and opportunity to rein in this dangerous populist policy before it further undermines the chances of a more effective common european migration and foreign and security policy. i ask that the etuc and the president of the commission use all their influence to this end.
it's a question of cards. mr karas, you mentioned that we have not yet consulted the member states. indeed, this is a matter of fact, it is a matter of future endeavour. but do you not think that it is perhaps even more important to seek the views of the social groups, organisations, local co-operative associations, trade unions concerned?
mr president, the european fund for strategic investments is not a stand-alone project but part of the 315 billion euro investment package, the juncker plan. the union's commitment is eur 16 billion, with eur 5 billion from the european investment bank. we expect private investors to pay 15 times that 21 billion. this is not the economic miracle weapon you're expecting, this is the miracle shopping. and what is it that attracts investors? the fact that the responsibility for high-risk investments should be borne by the states with public money. i quote the report: the additional substantial contribution of the member states to its capital is necessary, which is essential. so this is really a european ppp of a gigantic scale. we in hungary have very negative experiences with this type of cooperation. the member states, represented by the council, will not have a say in the decisions. they will have no representation on the steering committee or the investment committee. and if the report emphasises that the investment fund can only work well if the member states continue with structural reforms, which is known to mean austerity. real positive change can only be achieved by abandoning neoliberal economic policies and by finding a common solution to the debt crisis.
in writing. the juncker investment package would mobilise eur 315 billion of capital for european transport, energy, digital and social investments and help businesses, especially smes, with up to 3000 employees access finance through venture capital loans. the three pillars of the package are the creation of a new fund, the european fund for strategic investments, the establishment of a list of feasible improvements and the adoption of an internal market roadmap to remove administrative obstacles. the european union and the european investment bank (eib) contribute a total of eur 21 billion to its capital. of this, €16 billion is provided by the eu's eu contingency guarantee and a further €5 billion by the eib. on the basis of the eur 21 billion, the eib is expected to issue aaa-rated bonds worth eur 60 billion, with a triple leverage. this generates approximately eur 315 billion of capital investment, including a further five times leverage. this could provide a good basis for giving the economies of the eu member states a new, economically sound impetus to overcome the crisis.
in writing. in my view, the juncker package will also open up significant opportunities in agriculture in terms of private investment backed by the eu banking guarantee. however, it should be avoided that only the most competitive and larger agricultural enterprises have access to investments. i therefore agree with the view expressed in the opinion of the committee on agriculture that the investment incentive programme should be focused mainly on small and medium-sized enterprises. first of all, they have the potential to create jobs. hungary has good experience in this area, as the hungarian government has a successful policy of job creation. on the other hand, i would remind my colleagues that the eu's agricultural policy is based primarily on subsidies, and that will not change in the foreseeable future. we want the current cap to remain and not be replaced - even partially - by a kind of eu investment incentive scheme. such a tool can only complement the current cap system.
in writing. i welcome the outcome of the negotiations on the creation of the european fund for strategic investments, which is in line with the objectives of the hungarian economy, as it will provide a new type of financing opportunity for domestic financial services providers and companies. the fund will also support risk finance for smes and mid-caps across europe. it will help the companies concerned to bridge the capital gap by providing larger amounts of direct capital investment and additional guarantees for high-quality securitisation of sme loans. the efsi will be fully operational by the end of the year. it is estimated that the investment package could add up to eur 330 to 410 billion to the european union's gdp over the next three years and create between 1 and 1.3 million new jobs, so the estimates are very impressive. from a hungarian point of view, the greatest success is, of course, that the investment package is completely separated from the resources of cohesion policy. the eur 5 billion transfer concerns the cef 2.8 billion and the horizon 2020 programme for research and development with eur 2.2 billion. the proposed reduction is a success for horizon 2020, which finances research and development projects, as compared to the commission's original proposal. it should be noted that for the horizon 2020 programme, the priority lines of basic research for us are not affected by the reallocation, including the programme that aims to widen the participation of new member states.
in writing. the eu institutions have only been able to agree on the rules for the european fund for strategic investments (efsi) to be set up as a matter of urgency after lengthy negotiations, and the outcome is very worrying: there are no guarantees that the new fund will only be used to implement sustainable long-term developments, coherent with existing eu policies, such as projects for the green economy and energy saving. although parliament has achieved some successes in the negotiations, the new fund still draws a significant amount of money from the eu's horizon 2020 research and innovation framework programme and the european connectivity facility (cef). the way in which projects are selected is also problematic, and although a scoreboard will help to assess the expected impacts, much more is needed: full transparency and consistent application of sustainability criteria, as the envi committee's opinion suggested. the selection should be made in line with the union's environmental, energy and climate policy objectives. the new fund does not reflect decades of development policy experience, lacks precise selection criteria, detailed objectives and conditions for involving stakeholders. the efsi should not be allowed to be used for development projects that are not covered by the cohesion fund, that are environmentally and socially harmful or that are not sustainable. we must not allow the financing of the costly deployment of traditional energy sources or outdated technology in some member states, which would make them uncompetitive, to be financed from eu public money.
the committee on the internal market and consumer protection has delivered its opinion. mr president, mr commissioner, strengthening the governance of the single market is closely linked to economic governance and, within this framework, to concrete ideas for the creation of a dedicated pillar of the european semester. as an imco committee opinion-giver, i have focused on those areas, those key areas, which are most conducive to economic growth and support convergence. i am convinced that we need to strengthen the governance of the single market if we are to achieve our objectives. however, this requires that we do not differentiate between measures at eu and member state level, and that we are able to work out more effective instruments. on the one hand, we need to develop existing ones, to create better synergy, and on the other hand, we need a system of reference numbers to measure this integrity. however, i am very sorry that these proposals have only been partially implemented, and i hope that this will change in the future.
i'll close this discussion. the commission shall be assisted by the committee established by article 15 of regulation (eu) no 182/2011.
the next item is the vote. the commission has also proposed that the council adopt a decision on the basis of article 108 (3) of the treaty on the functioning of the european union (tfeu) and article 4 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union (tfeu).
mr zarianopoulos, i would like to inform you that i am aware that you wished to make a statement in plenary, but that, under the rules in force, namely rule 9 (8) of the rules of procedure, i cannot give you the floor. by the way, you have already been heard by the committee and had the opportunity to express your views on the subject.
the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the budget and the implementation of the budgetary discipline.
sylvie goulard, on behalf of the alde group, requests that the report be referred back to committee pursuant to rule 188 (1). parliament shall reject the request by electronic vote.
the following point is the commission statement on the decision adopted in connection with the action plan on a fairer corporate tax system in the union (2015/2675 (rsp)).
madam president, i welcome the action plan for a fairer corporate tax system in the eu as it contains many positive steps, which shows the commission’s commitment to fundamentally reform corporate taxation. relaunching the common consolidated corporate tax base, increasing transparency and improving eu coordination – all these steps point in the right direction. however, i must also emphasise the disappointment caused by the fact that the country-by-country reporting was not included in the action plan, although it would have provided desperately-needed transparency with which the eu could ensure that big corporations stop tax dodging. it is obvious to everyone that the current system is unfair and has a devastating effect on honest taxpayers, including small and medium-sized enterprises. therefore, i cannot see any reason why we should not act in order to change the situation. as public consultation on the matter will not produce concrete and visible results in the future, i urge the commission to take clear and swift action in this field and expand the country-by-country reporting system that already exists for banks to all sectors in the eu.
madam president, in preparation for the paris climate conference, the european parliament's committee has set itself more ambitious targets than ever, far beyond the commitments made so far. reducing co2 emissions by 50% by 2030, phasing them out by 2050, 45% share of renewable energy by 2030, 40% increase in energy efficiency. these goals are unrealistic and do not in themselves provide solutions. they're unrealistic because they don't take into account the huge costs associated with the targets, their impact on the economy and energy prices. they don't provide a solution, because the eu accounts for 9% of global emissions, while china and the us account for 35%. the paris conference will only succeed if they can be made to commit themselves legally.
madam president, this is not an unprecedented scandal in the european union, which was caused by the commission of the former socialist prime minister, ferenc gyurcsány, of the company altus zrt. in fact, history is repeating itself, as the case of the chairman of the democratic coalition bears a haunting resemblance to the case of the wife of the former bulgarian socialist prime minister, the current leader of pes, sergei stanishev, in 2013, whose pr firm won a 60,000 euro contract, who also declared that there was no conflict of interest. of course, the scandal broke, the former socialist prime minister first defended and prevented, but then he paid back the money he won from the union. well, ferenc gyurcsány's wife, as the company's ceo, also stated that there is no conflict of interest. maybe she forgot about her husband, the owner of the party, and his political statements. as you can see, there is a difference between the socialist prime ministers: the bulgarian has acknowledged the existence of the conflict of interest and has even paid back the amount won. the hungarian doesn't want to hear about you backing out of the contract. of course, that's probably because the amount is much higher. the commission's replies do not alter the facts but only impair the assessment of the union institutions. we shouldn't spoil it any more. i want our voters to trust us again. commissioner, it's time to look into this matter.
madam president, it has also caused great shock in the international arena that the romanian parliament has obstructed the initiation of criminal proceedings in the serious corruption cases of prime minister victor ponta in a pro-crime way. the romanian authorities, who have ignored the independence of the judiciary, have been preventing the prosecution and accountability of the perpetrators of the mass murders of december 1989, the march 1990 massacres in the maros market and the june 1990 mining raid in bucharest for a quarter of a century. we demand that the former perpetrators be held accountable by the decision of the strasbourg human rights court and that former president ion iliescu and former director of intelligence virgil măgureanu be held accountable for their actions before the law, as was the case with victor ponta.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the decision on the request for suspension of immunity of sotirios zarianopoulos, submitted to parliament by the deputy prosecutor of the supreme court of greece on 8 december 2014 in the context of the proceedings before the third criminal court of thessaloniki. the deputy prosecutor of the supreme court of greece has requested the suspension of the immunity of mr sotirios zarianopoulos, member of the european parliament, in the context of an investigation into an alleged crime; the main reason for this is that the alleged offence clearly has no connection with the mandate of sotirios zarianopoulos as a member of the european parliament, since it is linked to the action of the greek trade union pame, and sotirios zarianopoulos was not a member of the european parliament at the time of the offence. these statements were made in the context of the judicial proceedings against sotirios zarianopoulos and it is not the task of the legal affairs committee to investigate the case or to decide whether the member of the european parliament who is subject to criminal proceedings is guilty or not. there is therefore no reason to believe, on the basis of the information available to the committee, that the procedure was aimed at influencing the political activities of the member, and that the procedure was initiated many years before the person concerned became a member of the european parliament.
in writing. ‒ the legal affairs committee found no reason to believe that the greek authorities' procedure was aimed at influencing the political activities of the member, and that the procedure had been initiated long before mr zarianopoulos was elected to the european parliament. i therefore voted in favour of the request on the recommendation of the legal affairs committee.
in writing. ‒ i have voted in favour of the request for suspension of mr voigt's immunity, submitted by the president of the kammergericht berlin on 9 february 2015 and announced in plenary on 25 march 2015, and of the decision of the parliament to suspend mr voigt's immunity pursuant to that decision. the president of the kammergericht berlin, mr udo voigt, requested the suspension of the parliamentary immunity in connection with a legal proceeding concerning an alleged criminal offence. in my view, the fact that mr voigt is accused of incitement and collective defamation in relation to a publication published by the national democratic party during the 2006 fifa world cup, for which he was responsible as a party member, is a serious accusation that requires careful consideration and investigation. the allegations are clearly not related to the office of member of the european parliament of mr udo voigt and the alleged acts are not related to the opinion expressed by a member of the european parliament in the performance of his duties, and also taking into account that the allegation relates to acts committed in 2006, well before mr udo voigt's election as a member of the european parliament in 2014, the suspension of the immunity is justified.
in writing. ‒ the committee on legal affairs has found, in the course of its investigation, that the charges against mr voigt are not related to his membership of the european parliament but to his position as president of the national democratic party, and that the charges relate to an act which took place eight years before mr voigt was elected to the european parliament. i therefore voted in favour of the request on the recommendation of the legal affairs committee.
in writing. ‒ i welcomed the decision to establish the european fund for strategic investments (efsi), as it is in line with the objectives of the hungarian economy, as it will provide a new type of financing opportunity for financial services providers and companies. i am convinced that the fund will also support risk finance for smes and mid-caps across europe. it will help the companies concerned to bridge the capital gap by providing larger amounts of direct capital investment and additional guarantees for high-quality securitisation of sme loans. estimates that the investment package could add up to eur 330-410 billion to the european union's gdp over the next three years and create between 1 and 1.3 million new jobs seem to be well founded.
in writing. ‒ the juncker investment package would mobilise eur 315 billion of capital for european transport, energy, digital and social investments and help finance businesses, especially smes, employing up to 3000 people through venture capital loans. the three pillars of the investment package are the creation of a new fund, the european fund for strategic investments, the establishment of a list of feasible improvements and the adoption of an internal market roadmap to remove administrative obstacles. the biggest success from the hungarian point of view is that the investment package is completely separate from the cohesion policy resources and that the basic research lines that are a priority for us in the horizon 2020 programme are not affected by the reallocation, including the programme that aims to broaden the participation of the new member states. the commission notes that the hungarian authorities have not provided any evidence that the measures in question were necessary to achieve the objective of common interest. in line with the position of the fidesz-kdnp group, i voted in favour of the creation of the european fund for strategic investments (efsi), which is in line with the objectives of the hungarian economy, as it will provide a new type of financing opportunity for domestic financial services and companies.
in writing. ‒ from a hungarian perspective, the biggest success is that the investment package is completely separate from the cohesion policy resources. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's macro-financial assistance in the context of the union's macro-financial assistance. the commission notes that the commission has not provided any information on the amount of the aid granted to the beneficiary. the reduction in the level of the commission proposal is a success for horizon 2020. it is important from the hungarian point of view that the programme which is a priority for us in horizon 2020, which aims to widen the participation of the new member states, is not affected by the reduction. the establishment of the efsi is in line with the objectives of the hungarian economy: it will provide a new type of financing opportunity for domestic financial service providers and companies. the fund will also support risk finance for smes and mid-caps across europe. it will help the companies concerned to bridge the capital gap by providing larger amounts of direct capital investment and additional guarantees for high-quality securitisation of sme loans. the efsi will be fully operational by the end of the year. it is estimated that the investment package could add up to eur 330-410 billion to the union's gdp by 2020 and create between 1 and 1.3 million new jobs. on the basis of the above, the hungarian people's party delegation supported the adoption of the proposal in agreement with the european people's party.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the adoption of the draft regulation on the european fund for strategic investments (the juncker package), in agreement with the position of the european people's party. in my view, the juncker package will also open up significant opportunities in agriculture in terms of private investment backed by the eu bank guarantee. however, i would remind my colleagues that the eu's agricultural and cohesion policies are based primarily on subsidies, and i hope this will not change in the foreseeable future. we are interested in keeping these current policies and not replacing them - even partially - with a kind of eu investment incentive scheme. such an instrument can only complement the current system of cohesion policy and the cap.
in writing. ‒ from a hungarian perspective, the biggest success is that the investment package is completely separate from the cohesion policy resources. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's macro-financial assistance in the context of the union's macro-financial assistance. the commission notes that the commission has not provided any information on the amount of the aid granted to the beneficiary. the reduction in the level of the commission proposal is a success for horizon 2020. it is important from the hungarian point of view that the programme for horizon 2020, which aims to widen the participation of the new member states, is not affected by the reduction. the establishment of the efsi is in line with the objectives of the hungarian economy: it will provide a new type of financing opportunity for domestic financial service providers and companies. the fund will also support risk finance for smes and mid-caps across europe. it will help the companies concerned to bridge the capital gap by providing larger amounts of direct capital investment and additional guarantees for high-quality securitisation of sme loans. the efsi will be fully operational by the end of the year. it is estimated that the investment package could add up to eur 330-410 billion to the union's gdp by 2020 and create between 1 and 1.3 million new jobs. on the basis of the above, as a member of the hungarian people's party delegation, i supported the adoption of the proposal in agreement with the european people's party.
in writing. ‒ from a hungarian perspective, the biggest success is that the investment package is completely separate from the cohesion policy resources. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's macro-financial assistance in the context of the union's macro-financial assistance. the commission notes that the commission has not provided any information on the amount of the aid granted to the beneficiary. the reduction in the level of the commission proposal is a success for horizon 2020. it is important from the hungarian point of view that the programme which is a priority for us in horizon 2020, which aims to widen the participation of the new member states, is not affected by the reduction. the establishment of the efsi is in line with the objectives of the hungarian economy: it will provide a new type of financing opportunity for domestic financial service providers and companies. the fund will also support risk finance for smes and mid-caps across europe. it will help the companies concerned to bridge the capital gap by providing larger amounts of direct capital investment and additional guarantees for high-quality securitisation of sme loans. the efsi will be fully operational by the end of the year. it is estimated that the investment package could add up to eur 330-410 billion to the union's gdp by 2020 and create between 1 and 1.3 million new jobs. on the basis of the above, the hungarian people's party delegation supported the adoption of the proposal in agreement with the european people's party.
in writing. a report full of contradictions, which would improve the opportunities for smes, but would maximise the size of eligible firms by 3,000, envisage a five-fold leverage in three years, and shift resources away from ongoing research. while additional public investment and resources are needed to reduce unemployment, this report is unacceptable, but some amendments may bring it closer to an acceptable solution. time is ticking, investments have fallen by 400-500 billion euros a year since 2008, we shouldn't be running around in circles like this.
in writing. ‒ the presentation is of the utmost importance: it proposes a joint regulation of the parliament and the council on a highly ambitious plan, at the heart of the juncker commission's vision, to invest at least eur 315 billion and create 1.3 million new jobs over three years, and on the rules governing the operation of the european fund for strategic investments to be set up for this purpose. the proposal was discussed by all the committees concerned, including the committee on industry, research and energy, of which i am a member, and amendments were tabled. on the basis of the opinions of these committees, the committee on budgets and the committee on economic and financial affairs drew up the amended proposal which was submitted to parliament at first reading, and i voted in favour of it.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the fund underpinning the investment plan, as i believe that an effective compromise has been reached. the vote was preceded by a long and intensive debate, the primary social outcome of which was to put social utility ahead of purely economic considerations. i believe that the promotion of investment and the creation of quality and long-term sustainable jobs is a new milestone in the life of the european union, with its unquestionable socialist roots. the amount alone is not enough to solve all the problems, but the approach can be a good tool in contrast to the previous austerity policy. the joint report of the economic and monetary affairs and budgetary affairs committees was also contributed to by several parliamentary committees, which produced so-called opinions. the committee on agriculture and rural development, for example, has given me the task of coordinating the proposals of the socialist and democratic group. in drafting the opinion, my primary objective was to ensure that growth and job creation in rural areas are also ensured for both public and private investment without increasing the administrative burden. the most important elements of this were included in the final report.
in writing. ‒ the european globalisation adjustment fund was established to provide additional support to workers affected by the consequences of major structural changes in world trade. as i believe that the use of the egf has been successful so far, i voted in favour of adopting this report.
in writing. ‒ on 15 april 2015, the commission adopted a new proposal for a decision to mobilise the egf. the proposal is to mobilise eur 630 000 from the fund to provide technical assistance to the commission. the technical assistance shall be aimed at financing the supervision, the information and knowledge-base platform and the advice to be provided to the member states on the use, monitoring and evaluation of the egf. the commission has proposed that the requested amount for 2015 be used to finance the following activities: 1. monitoring and data collection2. information3. the creation of a knowledge base/application interface4. administrative and technical support5. assessment on the basis of the above, in view of the interinstitutional agreement of 2 december 2015, the hungarian people's party delegation supported the adoption of the proposal in agreement with the european people's party.
in writing. ‒ on 15 april 2015, the commission adopted a new proposal for a decision on the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf). the proposal is to mobilise eur 630 000 from the fund to provide technical assistance to the commission. the technical assistance shall be aimed at financing the supervision, the information and knowledge-base platform and the advice to be provided to the member states on the use, monitoring and evaluation of the egf. the commission has proposed that the requested amount for 2015 be used to finance the following activities: 1. monitoring and data collection2. information3. the creation of a knowledge base/application interface4. administrative and technical support5. assessment on the basis of the above, in view of the interinstitutional agreement of 2 december 2015, the hungarian people's party delegation supported the adoption of the proposal in agreement with the european people's party.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report, on the basis that the measures proposed by the commission would be financed as technical assistance in accordance with article 11 (1) and (4) and article 12 (2), (3) and (4) of the egf regulation. i welcome the ongoing work on the standardised procedure for egf applications and the use of electronic data exchange systems by the managing authorities, which allows for simplified and faster processing of applications and improved reporting. the integration of the egf into the electronic data exchange system has been ongoing for several years and the related costs for the egf budget will remain relatively high for the next two to three years until the integration process is completed. i ask the commission to present the progress of the integration into sfc2014 from the beginning of 2011 to 2014 and i urge the commission to invite parliament to the meetings and seminars of the expert group in accordance with the relevant provisions of the framework agreement between the european parliament and the european commission. i would also like to stress the importance of liaising with all the actors involved in egf applications, including the social partners.
in writing. ‒ on 15 april 2015, the commission adopted a new proposal for a decision to mobilise the egf. the proposal is to mobilise eur 630 000 from the fund to provide technical assistance to the commission. the technical assistance shall be aimed at financing the supervision, the information and knowledge-base platform and the advice to be provided to the member states on the use, monitoring and evaluation of the egf. the commission has proposed that the requested amount for 2015 be used to finance the following activities: monitoring and data collection, information, creation of a knowledge base/application interface, administrative and technical support, evaluation. on the basis of the above, and in view of the interinstitutional agreement of 2 december 2015, i, as a member of the hungarian people's party delegation, supported the adoption of the proposal in agreement with the european people's party.
in writing. ‒ on 15 april 2015, the commission adopted a new proposal for a decision to mobilise the egf. the proposal is to mobilise eur 630 000 from the fund to provide technical assistance to the commission. the technical assistance shall be aimed at financing the supervision, the information and knowledge-base platform and the advice to be provided to the member states on the use, monitoring and evaluation of the egf. the commission has proposed that the requested amount for 2015 be used to finance the following activities: 1. monitoring and data collection2. information3. the creation of a knowledge base/application interface4. administrative and technical support5. assessmenton the basis of the above, and in view of the interinstitutional agreement of 2 december 2015, i supported the adoption of the proposal as a member of the hungarian people's party delegation, in agreement with the european people's party.
in writing. ‒ on 15 april 2015, the commission adopted a new proposal for a decision to mobilise the egf. the proposal is to mobilise eur 630 000 from the fund to provide technical assistance to the commission. the technical assistance shall be aimed at financing the supervision, the information and knowledge-base platform and the advice to be provided to the member states on the use, monitoring and evaluation of the egf. the commission has proposed that the requested amount for 2015 be used to finance the following activities: 1. monitoring and data collection2. information3. the creation of a knowledge base/application interface4. administrative and technical support5. assessment on the basis of the above, in view of the interinstitutional agreement of 2 december 2015, the hungarian people's party delegation supported the adoption of the proposal in agreement with the european people's party.
in writing. the european globalisation adjustment fund which was set up to provide support for workers and self-employed persons made redundant as a result of major structural changes in world trade due to globalisation, the ongoing global financial and economic crisis or another global financial and economic crisis, to reintegrate into the labour market is not usually available to those in need in peripheral countries. the report is eligible because this appropriation is helping to provide information, by setting up a website, a portal for applications, training for egf staff, etc., thus creating hope for a fairer use of the fund in the future.
in writing. ‒ the european globalisation adjustment fund aims to provide additional support to workers affected by the consequences of major structural changes in world trade. the commission has now proposed to mobilise eur 630 000 from the fund for technical assistance. the commission intends to finance, as part of the technical assistance, the establishment of a monitoring, information and knowledge-base platform and to organise advice to member states on the use, monitoring and evaluation of the egf. the requested amount is within the 0,5% limit of the fund available for this purpose, the proposal is agreed by the committee on social affairs and employment and its adoption is supported by the committee on budgets, which has the appropriate powers. that's why i voted for the motion.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report as it helps workers who have been displaced by the consequences of structural changes in world trade and the global financial and economic crisis and supports their reintegration into the labour market. i agree with the report that financial support for redundant workers should be dynamic and that these tools should be made available as quickly and efficiently as possible. the regulation extends the scope of eligible measures and beneficiaries to include self-employed entrepreneurs and young people, and supports initiatives to promote the creation of new businesses. these, and a higher contribution from the fund, will, in my view, make the eu solidarity instrument more effective and visible for workers. i support the report and support the continued work on the standardised application procedure and the use of the electronic data exchange system (sfc2014) by the managing authorities, which will allow for the simplification and acceleration of the processing of applications. i am confident that along the lines set by the ep, we can really help workers with much more effective implementation by the commission and the member states.
madam president, in october 2008, french president nicolas sarkozy proposed the creation of an eu economic government. the proposal was so openly about the creation of a superstate that the name was changed. since then, it's been about economic governance, not an independent body. the result is the same: the removal of economic and budgetary autonomy from the member states. the report states that before the adoption of draft budgets by member states, the finance committees of the national parliaments invite the eu commissioners responsible for economic governance to their parliaments. the eu commissioner, the commissioner, thus becomes the central, intermediate commissioner, who implements the will of the people. and all in the name of democracy. that is why i did not support the adoption of this report.
in writing. ‒ the crisis has shown that europe needs to take steps to improve its economic model and restore its competitiveness. this requires both public funding and targeted investments. however, the potential of economic governance is currently not being exploited. effective economic coordination aims to kick-start europe's engine of growth and jobs and ultimately also to empower citizens. economic and employment policy coordination will be complete when a significant part of this coordination covers all possible means of stimulating the real economy, which would otherwise be left out of the broader coordination of the european semester. i voted in favour of mrs beres' report, as i believe that economic policy governance must be strengthened if the union is to be a driving force for growth and job creation. this requires the reintroduction of the highest level of political oversight, the elimination of any artificial distinction between action at eu and national level, and the development of more effective means to ensure that the eu's single market really benefits citizens and businesses.
in writing. ‒ the crisis has shown that europe needs to take steps to improve its economic model and restore its competitiveness. this requires both public funding and targeted investments. however, the potential of economic governance is currently not being exploited. effective economic coordination aims to kick-start europe's engine of growth and jobs and ultimately also to empower citizens. economic and employment policy coordination will be complete when a significant part of this coordination covers all possible means of stimulating the real economy, which would otherwise be left out of the broader coordination of the european semester. i voted in favour of mrs beres' report, because i believe that economic policy governance must be strengthened if the union is to be a driving force for growth and job creation. this requires the reintroduction of the highest level of political oversight, the elimination of any artificial distinction between action at eu and national level, and the development of more effective means to ensure that the eu's single market really benefits citizens and businesses.
in writing. ‒ the crisis has shown that europe needs to take steps to improve its economic model and restore its competitiveness. this requires both public funding and targeted investments. however, the potential of economic governance is currently not being exploited. effective economic coordination aims to kick-start europe's engine of growth and jobs and ultimately also to empower citizens. economic and employment policy coordination will be complete when a significant part of this coordination covers all possible means of stimulating the real economy, which would otherwise be left out of the broader coordination of the european semester. i voted in favour of mrs beres' report, because i believe that economic policy governance must be strengthened if the union is to be a driving force for growth and job creation. this requires the reintroduction of the highest level of political oversight, the elimination of any artificial distinction between action at eu and national level, and the development of more effective means to ensure that the eu's single market really benefits citizens and businesses.
in writing. ‒ the crisis has shown that europe needs to take steps to improve its economic model and restore its competitiveness. this requires both public funding and targeted investments. however, the potential of economic governance is currently not being exploited. effective economic coordination aims to kick-start europe's engine of growth and jobs and ultimately also to empower citizens. economic and employment policy coordination will be complete when a significant part of this coordination covers all possible means of stimulating the real economy, which would otherwise be left out of the broader coordination of the european semester. i voted in favour of mrs beres' report, because i believe that economic policy governance must be strengthened if the union is to be a driving force for growth and job creation. this requires the reintroduction of the highest level of political oversight, the elimination of any artificial distinction between action at eu and national level, and the development of more effective means to ensure that the eu's single market really benefits citizens and businesses.
in writing. ‒ the crisis has shown that europe needs to take steps to improve its economic model and restore its competitiveness. this requires both public funding and targeted investments. however, the potential of economic governance is currently not being exploited. effective economic coordination aims to kick-start europe's engine of growth and jobs and ultimately also to empower citizens. economic and employment policy coordination will be complete when a significant part of this coordination covers all possible means of stimulating the real economy, which would otherwise be left out of the broader coordination of the european semester. i voted in favour of mrs beres' report, because i believe that economic policy governance must be strengthened if the union is to be a driving force for growth and job creation. this requires the reintroduction of the highest level of political oversight, the elimination of any artificial distinction between action at eu and national level, and the development of more effective means to ensure that the eu's single market really benefits citizens and businesses.
in writing. ‒ the crisis has shown that europe needs to take steps to improve its economic model and restore its competitiveness. this requires both public funding and targeted investments. however, the potential of economic governance is currently not being exploited. effective economic coordination aims to kick-start europe's engine of growth and jobs and ultimately also to empower citizens. economic and employment policy coordination will be complete when a significant part of this coordination covers all possible means of stimulating the real economy, which would otherwise be left out of the broader coordination of the european semester. i voted in favour of mrs beres' report, because i believe that economic policy governance must be strengthened if the union is to be a driving force for growth and job creation. this requires the reintroduction of the highest level of political oversight, the elimination of any artificial distinction between action at eu and national level, and the development of more effective means to ensure that the eu's single market really benefits citizens and businesses.
in writing. ‒ the crisis has shown that europe needs to take steps to improve its economic model and restore its competitiveness. this requires both public funding and targeted investments. however, the potential of economic governance is currently not being exploited. effective economic coordination aims to kick-start europe's engine of growth and jobs and ultimately also to empower citizens. economic and employment policy coordination will be complete when a significant part of this coordination covers all possible means of stimulating the real economy, which would otherwise be left out of the broader coordination of the european semester. i voted in favour of mrs beres' report, in line with the position of the hungarian people's party delegation, because i believe that economic policy must be strengthened if the union is to be a driving force for growth and job creation. this requires the reintroduction of political oversight at the highest level, avoiding any artificial differentiation between action at eu and member state level, and developing more effective means of ensuring that the eu single market truly benefits citizens and businesses.
in writing. ‒ the crisis has shown that europe needs to take steps to improve its economic model and restore its competitiveness. this requires both public funding and targeted investments. however, the potential of economic governance is currently not being exploited. effective economic coordination aims to kick-start europe's engine of growth and jobs and ultimately also to empower citizens. economic and employment policy coordination will be complete when a significant part of this coordination covers all possible means of stimulating the real economy, which would otherwise be left out of the broader coordination of the european semester. i voted in favour of mrs beres' report, because i believe that economic policy governance must be strengthened if the union is to be a driving force for growth and job creation. this requires the reintroduction of political oversight at the highest level, avoiding any artificial differentiation between action at eu and member state level, and developing more effective means of ensuring that the eu single market truly benefits citizens and businesses.
in writing. ‒ the crisis has shown that europe needs to take steps to improve its economic model and restore its competitiveness. this requires both public funding and targeted investments. however, the potential of economic governance is currently not being exploited. effective economic coordination aims to kick-start europe's engine of growth and jobs and ultimately also to empower citizens. economic and employment policy coordination will be complete when a significant part of this coordination covers all possible means of stimulating the real economy, which would otherwise be left out of the broader coordination of the european semester. i voted in favour of mrs beres' report, because i believe that economic policy governance must be strengthened if the union is to be a driving force for growth and job creation. this requires the reintroduction of the highest level of political oversight, the elimination of any artificial distinction between action at eu and national level, and the development of more effective means to ensure that the eu's single market really benefits citizens and businesses.
in writing. improving the economic governance of the euro area through economic policy instruments. but the system itself is fundamentally flawed, so any attempt to do so is doomed to failure, and therefore the report is unsupportable. it is almost unbelievable that despite the series of failures and the proliferation of intolerable social conflicts, it still does not occur to us that instead of dead-end solutions, a model of cooperation system needs to be rebuilt from the ground up.
in writing. ‒ the report of the economic and monetary committee calls for a review of the economic governance framework. the report was accompanied by a minority opinion by two german members of parliament, bernd lucke and beatrix von storch. the report supports the centralisation of economic policy and the sharing of accountability within the euro area, and specific proposals for european economic governance include the creation of a central budget and a european unemployment insurance fund, the issuance of euro bonds and the institutional strengthening of the eurogroup. other that's how i see it. the report thus follows the example of a joint article published in the guardian by german and french ministers of economy, sigmar gabriel, who proposed a wider union, stronger union and closer cooperation. while minority opinion rejects the report for this reason, i supported it for this very reason.
in writing. ‒ the crisis has shown that europe needs to take steps to improve its economic model and restore its competitiveness. this requires both public funding and targeted investments. however, the potential of economic governance is currently not being exploited. effective economic coordination aims to kick-start europe's engine of growth and jobs and ultimately also to empower citizens. economic and employment policy coordination will be complete when a significant part of this coordination covers all possible means of stimulating the real economy, which would otherwise be left out of the broader coordination of the european semester. i voted in favour of mrs beres' report, because i believe that economic policy governance must be strengthened if the union is to be a driving force for growth and job creation. this requires the reintroduction of the highest level of political oversight, the elimination of any artificial distinction between action at eu and national level, and the development of more effective means to ensure that the eu's single market really benefits citizens and businesses.
in writing. ‒ i congratulate ms berès on the report on economic governance. it has been a very complex process and the rapporteur managed to give an excellent overview and made valuable comments. i especially agree with the observation that economic governance has become so complex that it has started to work against us. it has indeed a detrimental effect on transparency and democracy. i welcome the fact that the report calls for less complexity, more transparency and identifies a european-wide measure against tax fraud and evasion and aggressive corporate tax planning as a tool to achieve it. the country-by-country reporting for corporates was also mentioned in the report, which was unfortunately not introduced by the commission’s action plan for a fairer corporate tax system. i urge the stakeholders to take note of the recommendations of the report and aim for a less complicated economic governance system that could stabilise the current fragile economic situation.
member of the commission.– mr president, the resolution and the debate we have had this afternoon sum up very well the main points that we are trying to achieve. i just want to highlight four or five of the main themes that have come up this afternoon. first of all, in terms of building from the bottom up, identifying barriers and obstacles and knocking them down, and building the capital markets union with people, rather than doing things to people: that is how i am approaching it. and that is why support for the capital markets union is very strong, as it happens, in the city of london – because they see the benefits that come to britain from being part of a large single market. i think it is wrong to misrepresent the views of people in the city of london. in terms of some of the other issues that were raised, i think we need to identify and overcome these barriers. we need to be proportionate in our regulation and in how we regulate. the regulation that has been passed is clearly linked with the flow of capital through the union. some specific points were raised about insolvency, taxation and private pensions. these issues are addressed in the green paper. we asked questions about insolvency and taxation, and we will follow those up in our response to it. we are considering a specific recommendation to do with the idea of having a voluntary ‘29th regime’ to encourage personal pensions. so a number of the points that have been raised are indeed being addressed. it is also important to emphasise that the point of what we are trying to do is to complement the funding streams we already have and to add to the banking system. if you have a system – which we have in europe – which is heavily dependent on one source of funding – the banking system – and you have a contraction in the banking system, then you get the consequences we have seen: of businesses in the economy not getting the funding they need. i feel strongly that, if we can diversify sources of funding and give small, medium-sized and large businesses alternative sources of funding, we can make a contribution to growth and to creating new jobs. there is support for this way forward. i welcome the support i have had, and i welcome the arguments set out in the resolution. we have an opportunity to make some progress. i do not claim this is the holy grail, but i do claim that we have an opportunity now to do what we set out to do over 50 years ago, which is to achieve the free movement of capital. i hope that we can now make some further progress on the back of this proposal.
first vice-president of the commission. – mr president, i will only take a few minutes of your time to tell you a few things before vice-president katainen takes over. first of all, this commission remains strongly committed to presenting – before this parliament and before the end of the year – a circular economy package which has a holistic approach on the issue – yes, on waste, but also on the re—use of finite materials and on other proposals that would create the environment for a new economy for europe. why do we need this, and why do we passionately believe in this? because the future of the european economy is not in competing on low wages; the future of the european economy is not in competing on creating stuff with finite resources. the future of the european economy is in the circular economy – in reusing, in putting things back into the economic cycle, and in thinking in terms of cradle to cradle. funnily enough, businesses have got this more – and got it better – than we have as politicians. businesses are leading on this, and we should be leading, as well, as politicians. why? because we know where we are. we also know where we need to be, which is in the circular economy, but we do not know well how to get from where we are to where we need to be. and here is where politics needs to lead; here is where government comes in, and here is where the european union is an essential link in getting us from where we are to where we need to be. i passionately believe in this transition. i believe this year, by presenting our package, we can make the first important contribution to this transformation (which is inevitable), and the report we discussed today is an important building block for what we are going to do. indeed, we will look at the waste package, as i have said, and we will work on it so that we can present the new waste package before the end of the year – and, essentially, we will look at all the other issues we need for the circular economy. i believe in this because it is a huge business opportunity for european businesses. it is also a huge opportunity for the european economy and for jobs. that is why vice-president katainen and i work on this closely with all our colleagues – commissioner bieńkowska, commissioner vella, and many others – because we take a holistic approach. i would encourage parliament to look at this, not within silos, but as something we have a common interest in, because a circular economy is not something we do just for the environment. sustainability, of course, has an environmental angle, but sustainability has, especially, an economic and a social angle. if we do not take the three elements into account – economic, social and environmental sustainability – we will not succeed in creating the right conditions for the circular economy. i want to stress this. why are businesses interested in this? because it is the most interesting business model for the future; because they know it is sustainable; because they know it will lead to growth; because they know this is where europe can lead worldwide. we should use that opportunity to integrate the three elements of sustainability – economic, social and environmental – and then, i believe, we will be successful. you can count on the commission to take this holistic approach; you can count on the commission to work closely with you. i am sure that we can look at the elements, particularly starting with analysing the situation in member states and having comparable analyses from them, so that we can take it from the zero situation to the higher levels in the next couple of years. the commission will certainly be part of that transition.
vice-president of the commission. – mr president, honourable members, thank you very much for giving us the chance to discuss this very topical and important issue. as you heard, the commission strongly believes in the circular economy. the circular economy will be a megatrend in the world economy similar to globalisation. the current linear model is not sustainable or reasonable from an economic, environmental or societal point of view. for instance, if you look at the car sector, the average car is parked around 90% of the time. if you look at office buildings, office buildings are empty some 50% of the time. so we have to look at the economy from a different angle than we have done before. as vice-president timmermans has just said, we have to look at the circular economy from a wider perspective. it is not only about recycling or waste, but we should focus on this as a complete concept in the market economy. that is why we need to find the right incentives for the business sector to further develop their business models. we also we have to find the right incentives for consumers to change their consumer behaviour and, by doing so, lead development by their own choices. at the moment the business sector is leading the circular economy, and this is a very good thing. as a regulator, we have to find the right things to support this development. we need the input of stakeholders in order to define what needs to be regulated – or even deregulated; how we can use the tools we have at eu level to promote better use of our resources and how we can strengthen the circular economy as an integral part of the dynamic market economy. we must also be careful not to overregulate everything. this is often a problem for a regulator, who may, even in good faith, sometimes do so. the ‘report on resource efficiency: moving towards a circular economy’, as approved in the committee on the environment, public health and food safety (envi) last month, sets the bar high. we appreciate and take note of your ambitious proposals. i would like to comment on some of the many issues your report raises. let me start by what we call the other half of the circle. the commission shares your view that product design is of paramount importance in getting things right from the start. there is the potential for an increased focus on circular aspects in order to design products that are made to last and that can be remanufactured and repaired easily, thus facilitating high-quality recycling. we are looking closely into this matter. we see a strong role for public procurement in creating demand for sustainable products, and we are examining the contribution that can be made by green public procurement in this respect. on buildings, we thank parliament for its support for a more holistic approach to resource efficiency throughout the full life-cycle of buildings. to avoid burden shifting, we need to look at overall impacts beyond energy efficiency. the upcoming revised legislative proposal on waste is expected to focus on stepping up implementation on the ground and to take account of different levels of current performance in individual member states, while keeping a high and achievable level of vision on recycling. it will be essential to base this work on sound evidence. another important viewpoint is that member states and stakeholders see real added value in cooperating at eu level to tackle food waste. to that end, we will closely examine possibilities for preventing food waste. to conclude, my mandate is to look at all the work we are doing in the circular economy from the perspective of growth, jobs, competitiveness and investment. i know that, if designed right, we can enable a triple win. first, there are economic gains to be made from using raw materials and resources more efficiently and being less dependent on imports. secondly, there are environmental gains in moving away from a linear economy where we throw away products that could be repaired or recycled. thirdly, there are social gains to be made from preventing waste and further improving local waste management, recycling, repair and reuse services.
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on industry, research and energy.– mr president, as rapporteur of the committee on industry, research and energy (itre), i would like to say thank you to sirpa pietikäinen, rapporteur for the committee on the environment, public health and food safety (envi) report, and i would like to stress that the itre opinion, which was accepted with a huge majority, is clearly in line and supports everything which is included in the envi position. i would like just to point out some important elements of our opinion. the first part is that we clearly need an ambitious new package from the commission as soon as possible, which includes quantitative targets, not just wishes and also which has legislative parts. we need clear targets and legislative proposals to step ahead in the circular economy. concerning some specific issues in the itre committee, we would like to emphasise the importance of the following: incentivising both reuse and preparations for reuse through quantitative targets; a fiscal framework in accordance with the ‘polluter pays’ principle; addressing the production side (which was mentioned already by commissioner katainen); better production design standards to make products more durable and easier to assemble, and so on; and the fight against planned obsolescence in order to protect consumers.
it's a question of cards. mr president, i would like to ask mr demesmaeker a question, and i will make it brief: when you speak of waste in tonnes, do you mean the amount of waste that can be expressed in tonnes but is released into the air?
mr president, resource and energy efficiency is not just a green issue. the competitiveness of europe's economy and industry today depends primarily on progress in energy and resource efficiency. the increasingly wasteful use of resources, the increasingly dramatic increase in europe's energy consumption, could lead us to an economic dead end. we are already the world's number one energy importer, importing more than half of our total energy needs. this kind of energy dependency can only be reduced by the member states working together in alliance with europe. this is particularly true in the area of energy poverty, which is a growing problem, particularly in central and eastern europe. i am therefore convinced that improving energy efficiency, creating a common european energy union, can lead to low and sustainable energy bills, rather than to the imposition of official price controls by individual member states for domestic consumption, and that is why we must support the commission's proposal to develop a union energy efficiency index.
it's a question of cards. i would like to ask the honourable member whether, in addition to the many measures listed, he would be able to support the idea of making contracts between producers and processors compulsory, since i believe that much of the market uncertainty is also due to the fact that this system of compulsory contracts is currently only operational in half of the member states.
in writing. following the abolition of the milk quota in april, milk producers are even more exposed to fluctuations in world milk prices and to commercial practices in international food chains that in many cases are detrimental to producers. it is therefore essential for the european union to protect the interests of milk producers and to strengthen the milk sector. my colleague james nicholson, the northern ireland representative, has put a report on the table that is focused on production. i agree with him that the policy of the milk package based on producer organisations and strengthening the bargaining position of producers is the way forward. in addition, special efforts should be made to protect milk producers in disadvantaged areas and in mountain areas. the amounts deducted from the milk levy should be kept within the agricultural budget and used to support the competitiveness of the milk sector. the authorisations of producer organisations should be further strengthened and their influence on the drawing up of collective supply contracts should be further increased. the performance of the milk monitoring centre needs to be improved. it is a significant success for hungary that both of my proposals to increase the efficiency of crisis management were included in the report. the european commission should be invited to adjust the intervention prices to reflect the real market price and production costs. in addition, in the event of a serious crisis, the application of export refunds should be activated on a temporary basis. these proposals highlight the fundamental shortcomings of the union's crisis management and affect the functioning of the market for all product lines.
madam president, i would like to draw your attention to the situation in the port of calais and the eurotunnel cargo terminal, where thousands of migrants are trying to cross the channel by forcing their way onto the lorries waiting there, endangering the physical safety of the drivers, damaging the cargo and, in many cases, putting themselves in danger. this clearly threatens the safety of people and the free flow of goods and services. i believe that the european commission, as the guardian of the treaties and of fundamental values, needs to act urgently on this issue. i have already said that the commission is not prepared to accept the amendments tabled by the committee on budgets, but that it is prepared to accept the amendments tabled by the committee on budgets. unfortunately, it was not on the agenda, which is outrageous, because many less worrying topics find their way more easily to the plenary and the european commission.
madam president, the commission has recently provided help to the hungarian government in order to manage the flows of migrants entering the country. this aid package includes more than eur 8 million in financial support. as commissioner avramopoulos said, this support comes in a spirit of european solidarity. meanwhile, the hungarian government has conducted a nationwide billboard campaign against migrants, foresees building a 175 km fence on the hungarian-serbian border and has led a panic-mongering police action in the refugee camp at debrecen that has a maximum capacity of 800 persons but is currently hosting 1 900 refugees. as hungarian prime minister orbán has stated that he does not wish to develop refugee camps – on the contrary, he has promised to close them – what will the eur 8 million aid be spent on? will the commission raise the same question?
i represent a country which is considered to be second-class in the european union, a peripheral country, and i was therefore looking forward to the latvian presidency. i have just had an interesting observation in this debate today that my colleague, the latvian presidency, is speaking in exactly the same voice as mr juncker. fortunately, he has not slapped anyone today, but he is still pressing his mobile phone, so juncker from the lucky western country, luxembourg, from a rich country, and then i noticed that the other mainstream politicians are also politicians from the lucky western first-class eu member states. what's common in this language is a complete alienation from the real problems of real people. as the next presidency, you would have had the duty to report on all the suffering and misery here, especially in the peripheral countries, the former communist countries and the southern states! you have brought nothing here, nothing about why you are fleeing as economic refugees from your own country, from your country, from my country, and from greece, which we have been talking about today. what's going on, please? how long will we have a first-class and second-class member state? you, as the incoming presidency, should have spoken out loudly about this, because that is what your own citizens and the citizens of my country would have expected.
in writing. the latvian presidency representative highlighted a number of achievements and we heard many words of praise for the past six months. i would like to mention one element which i find unacceptable: the issue of roaming charges. the european commission proposed the elimination of roaming charges back in 2013, and this was adopted by the european parliament last year by a large majority. the european council, representing the governments of the member states, with the assistance of the latvian presidency, blocked the decision and finally forced a delayed, gradual withdrawal as a compromise solution. it is certainly welcome that the negotiations between the latvian presidency and the european parliament have resulted in an agreement on the final abolition of roaming charges, but it is unacceptable as a social democrat that the governments of the member states (including the orbán government, which describes itself as an unorthodox reductionist) have given in to the influential lobby of powerful countries rather than fully supporting european consumers. as a european democrat, i can only wholeheartedly support a decision that reduces the burden on people as quickly and as effectively as possible, while making europe competitive in the digital world revolution. and this is only part of it.
the free trade agreement currently under negotiation between the eu and the us is detrimental to europe, as the partners are not in the same economic weight group. it is really about extending the rights of multinational companies. global companies can sue countries for lost profits in a court set up specifically for this purpose. the biggest threat is the breach of the eu's strict food safety standards and the marketing of food products made from genetically modified plants and meat from hormone-treated animals. according to the welcoming message on the ep's website, i quote: the european parliament is the only directly elected body of the european union. the 751 members of the european parliament represent you, the citizens. if you are truly here to represent the interests of citizens and not global corporations, then this agreement must be taken off the agenda.
i see the congressman playing cards. i'm not going to let you do this. we made a decision at the beginning of the debate that there was no yellow card option, so we're keeping the time frame. please accept it.
thank you, congressman, and i apologize for mispronouncing your name.
we see in the greek issue, and we see in the ttip debate here, that the european union is not afraid of anything more than the opinion of the people and of real democracy. nevertheless, i quote from a letter signed by 50 hungarian public figures: "we demand the suspension of the negotiations on the transatlantic trade pact, the final rejection of this dirty deal. we expect the hungarian government, the national assembly and the european parliament delegated by the hungarian electorate to do everything possible to prevent this trade agreement that is handing nation states over to multinational companies from entering into force. you have to realize that you have to hear the people's voice. in doing so, hungarians joined a civil movement of 2.3 million european citizens and 477 european organisations called stop ttip. i would also encourage my fellow hungarians and our european friends to join this initiative.
madam president, thank you very much and i would like to apologise to the commissioner for the noise. i understand that a vote is coming up, but i ask my colleagues to be patient. i'd like to give the floor to the reporter, mr. lange, to conclude this debate.
i'll close this discussion. the vote will take place on wednesday 8 july 2015. the commission shall be assisted by the committee established by article 15 of regulation (eu) no 182/2011.
in writing. there are doubts about the transparency of the eu's workings, which have been raised in the eu institutions in recent months in the context of ttip. but the story started on a positive note: last year, the commission launched a public debate on the dispute settlement mechanism of the free trade agreement, where more than 150 000 people participated, 97% of whom said no to isds, supporting the eu not to give foreign investors preferences over national governments or authorities. in a few months, the european civil initiative 'stop ttip' has gathered over two million signatures in 14 member states, obliging the commission to give a formal response to a proposal to suspend ttip negotiations and abandon the isds, which must be heard by the european parliament. but it seems that too many big business interests are at stake for the opinion of eu citizens to be decisive. the two largest groups in the ep, the epp and the s&d, adopted a report with the parliament which, by rewriting the original proposal, did not explicitly reject isds, and indeed, with a repackaging trick set up as a compromise, the socialists are actually going to support the commission's pro-isds position. in view of the above, it is right for supporters of european democracy to ask: where is the point in the ttip negotiations where the opinion of citizens becomes unavoidable against business interests, and who are those who are preparing to adopt rules that are contrary to the position of european citizens?
in writing. the us free trade agreement, which has clear benefits for europe and hungary, has been hampered for months by political sentiment and hysteria surrounding the investor state dispute settlement mechanism. calm down, my fellow mps. the dispute mechanism is not going to destroy our planet, it's not going to tear apart the european legal order, and it's not going to force us to eat genetically modified hamburgers from now on. this is clear from the commission's public negotiating mandate. the commission has also provided the commission with a report on the implementation of the new rules on the protection of personal data. the dispute settlement mechanism shall not compel any member state to legislate contrary to the interests of its citizens. investors cannot force us to grow genetically modified food, to weaken environmental protection, to weaken workers' or consumers' rights. on the other hand, deliberate misinterpretation causes serious damage to the people of europe and hungary. without a us free trade agreement, european and hungarian families could lose $160,000 a year in savings. without a deal, europe will lose two million jobs, hungary 30,000, and the eastern european periphery will remain totally dependent on russian energy. without an agreement, without a north atlantic economic alliance of 850 million, europe's place in the world economy will be further weakened. if there is no agreement, we could one day find ourselves with the global economic rules dictated by asia and latin america. those who are stirring up political hysteria should do so with a careful balance of the above.
in writing. ttip can be an important tool in regulating globalisation and improving the eu's international competitiveness, but this requires a number of legal, political and economic framework conditions. the european parliament should therefore exercise active political control and direction throughout the negotiations leading to ttip, and its activities should not be limited to the forthcoming final vote. this can be a guarantee that the agreement will ultimately generate real jobs and growth in europe, without prejudice to eu labour, social, environmental and consumer protection standards. in implementing the negotiating directives drawn up with the member states and the ep, the commission representatives must also bear in mind and enforce this complex set of conditions, as it is the agreement's meaning in terms of european interests. i believe that the existing isds mechanism and the solution to ensure that the opaque and abusive practices surrounding it are eliminated - essentially the creation of a new public system under transparent and democratic control - also deserve support, because this will provide the commission with a clear negotiating framework for the next round of negotiations, which will serve the european interest.
in writing. after hearing ms bettina michelle jakobsen in the european parliament, the members of the budgetary control committee of the european parliament unanimously supported the danish candidate and accepted the danish government's candidate without a vote against. mrs jakobsen has been vice-president of the court of auditors since 2005, and i supported her appointment by the european people's party.
in writing. ‒ the nominee was heard and unanimously endorsed by the budgetary control committee, and the path outlined in the report is compelling. i supported his nomination.
in writing. ‒ the proper functioning of the european court of auditors is essential to an efficient community system. i voted in favour of the appointment of ms jakobsen, in agreement with the s&d group's position.
in writing. ‒ the proposed text is a consolidation of existing eu legislation without any substantial amendments.
in writing. ‒ the consolidated proposal contains a simple, uniform structure of the existing texts without any substantive changes, which is why i voted in favour of it.
in writing. ‒ in line with the guidelines of the european people's party, i voted in favour of the report on fishing rights for venezuelan fishing vessels. this report also makes it clear that the european union is obliged to limit its sea fishing to the extent necessary to maintain marine fish stocks. 30% of the world's oceans are overfished, and marine fish stocks are in danger. the reasoned measures taken to maintain them have led to a continuous and significant decline in the amount of marine fish caught. the cfp should therefore pay much more attention to sustainable fisheries, i.e. aquaculture, and in particular freshwater fisheries. a significant part of the hungarian wetlands is located in natura 2000 areas. these fish farms do not represent any threat to the natural values of these areas. in fact, in many cases it is our closed systems of wetlands that have created and preserved unique associations of aquatic habitats. consequently, freshwater aquaculture should be freed from unnecessarily stringent and unnecessary sustainability standards that are justified only for marine fisheries. efforts should be made to define and regulate freshwater aquaculture clearly now.
in writing. ‒ for decades, venezuelan fishing vessels have been fishing under licence in eu waters off the coast of french guiana, in return for landing part of their catch in local ports. the landing and processing of fishery products is a source of income and a significant source of employment in french guiana. however, in the absence of an international fisheries agreement between the eu and venezuela, this situation is contrary to the requirements of the community legal order. the proposal aims to bring about a legal solution to this situation.
in writing. ‒ draft amending budget no 3/2015 aims to enter in the 2015 budget an amount of eur 1 435 million in surplus from the 2014 financial year. the main sources of the surplus are the positive revenue statement of eur 1 183 million on the revenue side, the unused amount of eur 142 million on the expenditure side and the balance of exchange differences of eur 110 million. on the revenue side, the two main components are interest and fines on late payments (eur 634 million) and a positive result on own resources (eur 479 million). for section iii, the very low level of unused appropriations underlines the continued insufficiency of payment appropriations, which will also represent one of the main challenges for the implementation of the 2015 budget. the adoption of draft amending budget no 3/2015 will reduce the gni-based contribution of the member states to the union budget by eur 1 435 million. on the basis of the above, as a member of the hungarian people's party delegation, i supported the adoption of the proposal in agreement with the european people's party.
in writing. draft amending budget no 3/2015 aims to enter in the 2015 budget an amount of eur 1 435 million in surplus from the 2014 financial year. the main sources of the surplus are the positive revenue statement of eur 1 183 million on the revenue side, the unused amount of eur 142 million on the expenditure side and the balance of exchange differences of eur 110 million. on the revenue side, the two main components are interest and fines on late payments (eur 634 million) and a positive result on own resources (eur 479 million). for section iii, the very low level of unused appropriations underlines the continued insufficiency of payment appropriations, which will also represent one of the main challenges for the implementation of the 2015 budget. the adoption of draft amending budget no 3/2015 will reduce the gni-based contribution of the member states to the union budget by eur 1 435 million. on the basis of the above, the hungarian people's party delegation supported the adoption of the proposal in agreement with the european people's party.
in writing. ‒ draft amending budget no 3/2015 aims to enter in the 2015 budget an amount of eur 1 435 million in surplus from the 2014 financial year. the main sources of the surplus are the positive revenue statement of eur 1 183 million on the revenue side, the unused amount of eur 142 million on the expenditure side and the balance of exchange differences of eur 110 million. on the revenue side, the two main components are interest and fines on late payments (eur 634 million) and a positive result on own resources (eur 479 million). for section iii, the very low level of unused appropriations underlines the continued insufficiency of payment appropriations, which will also represent one of the main challenges for the implementation of the 2015 budget. the adoption of draft amending budget no 3/2015 will reduce the gni-based contribution of the member states to the union budget by eur 1 435 million. on the basis of the above, i voted in favour of the adoption of the proposal in agreement with the european people's party.
in writing. ‒ draft amending budget no 3/2015 aims to enter in the 2015 budget an amount of eur 1 435 million in surplus from the 2014 financial year. the main sources of the surplus are the positive revenue statement of eur 1 183 million on the revenue side, the unused amount of eur 142 million on the expenditure side and the balance of exchange differences of eur 110 million. on the revenue side, the two main components are interest and fines on late payments (eur 634 million) and a positive result on own resources (eur 479 million). for section iii, the very low level of unused appropriations underlines the continued insufficiency of payment appropriations, which will also represent one of the main challenges for the implementation of the 2015 budget. the adoption of draft amending budget no 3/2015 will reduce the gni-based contribution of the member states to the union budget by eur 1 435 million. on the basis of the above, the hungarian people's party delegation supported the adoption of the proposal in agreement with the european people's party.
in writing. ‒ the draft presented seeks to transfer the surplus of eur 1 435 million in the 2014 budget to the 2015 budget, making it available for spending in 2015.
in writing. ‒ the european parliament, by its decision today, takes note of draft amending budget no 4/2015 submitted by the commission and the council's position on it. stresses the need to release financial assistance to countries affected by natural disasters as a matter of urgency through the eusza, taking into account the eusza's solidarity with the population of regions affected by disasters; the european parliament recalls that the adoption of budgetary amendment no 3/2015 will reduce the contribution of the member states to the union budget based on gross national income (gni) and therefore amply compensates for their contribution to the financing of budgetary amendment no 4/2015. it points out that, as they are closely linked from a political point of view, the two draft amending budgets will have to be adopted simultaneously. on the basis of the above, as a member of the hungarian people's party delegation, i supported the adoption of the proposal in agreement with the european people's party.
in writing. the european parliament, by its decision today, takes note of draft amending budget no 4/2015 submitted by the commission and the council's position thereon. stresses the need to release financial assistance to countries affected by natural disasters as a matter of urgency through the eusza, taking into account the eusza's solidarity with the population of regions affected by disasters; the european parliament recalls that the adoption of budgetary amendment no 3/2015 will reduce the contribution of the member states to the union budget based on gross national income (gni) by eur 1 435 and therefore amply compensates for their contribution to the financing of budgetary amendment no 4/2015. it points out that, as they are closely linked from a political point of view, the two draft amending budgets will have to be adopted at the same time. on the basis of the above, the hungarian people's party delegation supported the adoption of the proposal in agreement with the european people's party.
in writing. ‒ the european parliament, by its decision today, takes note of draft amending budget no 4/2015 submitted by the commission and the council's position on it. stresses the need to release financial assistance to countries affected by natural disasters as a matter of urgency through the eusza, taking into account the eusza's solidarity with the population of regions affected by disasters; the european parliament recalls that the adoption of budgetary amendment no 3/2015 will reduce the contribution of the member states to the union budget based on gross national income (gni) by eur 1 435 and therefore amply compensates for their contribution to the financing of budgetary amendment no 4/2015. it points out that, as they are closely linked from a political point of view, the two draft amending budgets will have to be adopted at the same time. on the basis of the above, i voted in favour of the adoption of the proposal in agreement with the european people's party.
in writing. ‒ the european parliament, by its decision today, takes note of draft amending budget no 4/2015 submitted by the commission and the council's position on it. stresses the need to release financial assistance to countries affected by natural disasters as a matter of urgency through the eusza, taking into account the eusza's solidarity with the population of regions affected by disasters; the european parliament recalls that the adoption of budgetary amendment no 3/2015 will reduce the contribution of the member states to the union budget based on gross national income (gni) by eur 1 435 and therefore amply compensates for their contribution to the financing of budgetary amendment no 4/2015. it points out that, as they are closely linked from a political point of view, the two draft amending budgets will have to be adopted at the same time. on the basis of the above, the hungarian people's party delegation supported the adoption of the proposal in agreement with the european people's party.
in writing. ‒ the draft transfers to the 2015 budget the amount of the eu solidarity fund contribution to mitigate flood damage in romania, bulgaria and italy, as discussed in the following paragraph.
in writing. ‒ the commission proposes, on the basis of point 11 of the interinstitutional agreement of 2 december 2013, to mobilise the european union solidarity fund (eusf) in connection with the floods in romania (spring and summer 2014), bulgaria (summer 2014) and italy (autumn 2013). the commission carried out a thorough examination of all four applications. in all four cases, the commission proposes to take account of 2,5% of the total direct damage, as no region has reached the threshold for a 'significant disaster'. this is in line with the previous practice for regional disasters and disasters supported under the neighbourhood provision. the total proposed mobilisation is eur 66 505 850. on the basis of the above, as a member of the hungarian people's party delegation, i supported the adoption of the proposal in agreement with the european people's party.
in writing. on the basis of point 11 of the interinstitutional agreement of 2 december 2013, the commission proposes to mobilise the european union solidarity fund (eusf) in the context of the floods in romania (spring and summer 2014), bulgaria (summer 2014) and italy (autumn 2013). the commission carried out a thorough examination of all four applications in accordance with council regulation (ec) no 2012/2002, as amended by regulation (eu) no 661/2014 of the european parliament and of the council of 15 may 2014 establishing the european union solidarity fund, and in particular articles 3, 4 and 4 thereof. in all four cases, the commission proposes to take account of 2,5% of the total direct damage, as no region has reached the threshold for a 'significant disaster'. this is in line with the previous practice for regional disasters and disasters supported under the neighbourhood provision. the total proposed mobilisation is eur 66 505 850. on the basis of the above, the hungarian people's party delegation supported the adoption of the proposal in agreement with the european people's party.
in writing. ‒ the aim of the solidarity fund is to show solidarity with the population of regions affected by disasters. romania and bulgaria requested assistance from the fund to mitigate the damage caused by the 2014 floods and italy requested assistance from the fund to mitigate the damage caused by the 2013 floods. the submission proposes a reduction of the amount of the direct damage corresponding to 2,5% of the total direct damage. i think the proposal is fair, so i voted for it.
in writing. ‒ the european parliament's committees examined in detail the possible use of the aid and its form for all four applications. in these cases, it is very important to speed up the reconstruction and to be able to prepare for the subsequent defense. i supported the motion.
in writing. ‒ european transport policy faces a number of challenges. on the one hand, there are the issues of sustainability, economy, energy efficiency and environmental protection, and on the other hand, there is the question of how to solve congested transport networks, such as congestion and other transport problems. a significant proportion of these issues can be addressed by eu-wide multimodal travel information, route planning and ticketing services. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the new rules and to monitor the implementation of the new rules and to monitor the implementation of the new rules. i welcome the commission's decision to define, by means of a delegated act, the conditions for the provision of access to, exchange and further development of real-time information services at union level. this is a step in the right direction, but more needs to follow in order to enable passengers in europe to choose the most sustainable, fastest and cheapest multimodal door-to-door transport, to book and pay for their tickets and to find out about possible bottlenecks and alternative routes before and during their journey.
in writing. ‒ in the european union, 72.2% of passengers used a car in 2012, compared with only 8.2% of buses and 6.5% of trains. multimodal travel information, route planning and ticketing services at union level, on the other hand, facilitate the switch to public transport and avoid congestion and thus make a significant contribution to the sustainability of european transport, especially in cities. that's why i supported the report.
in writing. ‒ the report covers a very important area. european transport policy faces a number of challenges. on the one hand, there are the issues of sustainability, economy, energy efficiency and environmental protection, and on the other hand, there is the question of how to solve congested transport networks, such as congestion and other transport problems. a significant proportion of these issues can be addressed by eu-wide multimodal travel information, route planning and ticketing services. the presentation broadly summarises the experience already gained and lists the problems to be solved. as vice-chair of the committee on transport and tourism, i supported the motion.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of extending the term of office of the taxe committee. the committee, of which i am an alternate, was given a very large and important task, since it had to examine the taxation regulations of the member states going back to 1991. in addition, the committee has heard from a number of stakeholders in recent months, advocated for the legal protection of whistleblowers in the public interest and sent fact-finding delegations to several countries, where they met with finance ministers, tax experts and representatives of ngos. the commission has also been asked to provide a report on the implementation of the new rules on the protection of the financial interests of the union. more time is needed to address the deep-rooted problems and it is therefore essential that the taxe special committee continue its work.
in writing. ‒ the draft amending budget no 1/2015 aims to implement the necessary changes in the budget nomenclature in accordance with the legislative agreement on the european fund for strategic investments (efsi) and to ensure the necessary reallocation of eur 1360 million in commitment appropriations and eur 10 million in payment appropriations. the total amount of eur 1350 million of commitment appropriations from the european network and instrument (eur 790 million), horizon 2020 (eur 70 million) and iter (eur 490 million) will be mobilised to replenish the guarantee fund in 2015. on the basis of the above, as a member of the hungarian people's party delegation, i supported the adoption of the proposal in agreement with the european people's party.
in writing. the draft amending budget no 1/2015 aims to implement the necessary changes in the budget nomenclature in accordance with the legislative agreement on the european fund for strategic investments (efsi) and to ensure the necessary reallocation of eur 1360 million in commitment appropriations and eur 10 million in payment appropriations. the total amount of eur 1350 million of commitment appropriations from the european network and instrument (eur 790 million), horizon 2020 (eur 70 million) and iter (eur 490 million) will be mobilised to replenish the guarantee fund in 2015. on the basis of the above, the hungarian people's party delegation supported the adoption of the proposal in agreement with the european people's party.
in writing. ‒ the draft amending budget no 1/2015 aims to implement the necessary changes in the budget nomenclature in accordance with the legislative agreement on the european fund for strategic investments (efsi) and to ensure the necessary reallocation of eur 1360 million in commitment appropriations and eur 10 million in payment appropriations. the total amount of eur 1350 million of commitment appropriations from the european network and instrument (eur 790 million), horizon 2020 (eur 70 million) and iter (eur 490 million) will be mobilised to replenish the guarantee fund in 2015. on the basis of the above, i voted in favour of the adoption of the proposal in agreement with the european people's party.
in writing. ‒ the draft amending budget no 1/2015 aims to implement the necessary changes in the budget nomenclature in accordance with the legislative agreement on the european fund for strategic investments (efsi) and to ensure the necessary reallocation of eur 1360 million in commitment appropriations and eur 10 million in payment appropriations. the total amount of eur 1350 million of commitment appropriations from the european network and instrument (eur 790 million), horizon 2020 (eur 70 million) and iter (eur 490 million) will be mobilised to replenish the guarantee fund in 2015. on the basis of the above, the hungarian people's party delegation supported the adoption of the proposal in agreement with the european people's party.
in writing. ‒ the european fund for strategic investments (efsi) and the investment offensive it will launch within the union is a central element of the juncker commission's policy to improve the union's economic competitiveness. the concept was supported by the committee on industry, energy and research, of which i am a member, and by the european parliament itself. the proposal is to transfer the necessary transfers to the 2015 union budget to replenish the esi funds, which i was happy to support accordingly.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report, as i believe it is important to bring the legislation on the european fund for strategic investments into line as soon as possible. i share the view that the budget plays an important role in creating added value by pooling resources and ensuring a high degree of synergy between the european structural and investment funds and the esf, while enhancing the multiplier effect of the union's contributions. however, i consider it important to underline that this instrument supports the mobilisation of additional private and public funds to finance investments for objectives with a european dimension, in particular those aimed at addressing cross-border challenges, including in the areas of energy, environment and transport infrastructure. i do note, however, that i do not entirely agree with the reassignments. the european parliament has already expressed in its reports and opinions that the fund should not be set up by drawing on existing development resources (such as the european network and horizon 2020). in the present case and in the current year, a compromise solution was reached in order to start the investment fund as soon as possible; but the report also indicates a change in the next year's reallocation.
in writing. ‒ the draft amending budget for 2015 for the european fund for strategic investments (efsi) was adopted following the opinions of the committee on transport, among others, and the amendments proposed by the committee on transport. i voted for the amendment.
in writing. ‒ draft amending budget no 5/2015 aims to strengthen the eu's resources to deal with migration and refugee flows following the recent tragedies in the mediterranean and the increase in the size of the migration flows. the adoption of draft amending budget no 5/2015 will increase the appropriations for commitments by eur 75 722 000 and those for payments by eur 69 652 000. the increase in payments will be transferred in full from the galileo programme, leaving the overall level of payment appropriations in the 2015 budget unchanged. on the basis of the above, as a member of the hungarian people's party delegation, i supported the adoption of the proposal in agreement with the european people's party.
in writing. draft amending budget no 5/2015 aims to strengthen the eu's resources to deal with migration and refugee flows following the recent tragedies in the mediterranean and the increase in the size of the migration flows. the adoption of draft amending budget no 5/2015 will increase the appropriations for commitments by eur 75 722 000 and those for payments by eur 69 652 000. the increase in payments will be transferred in full from the galileo programme, leaving the overall level of payment appropriations in the 2015 budget unchanged. on the basis of the above, the hungarian people's party delegation supported the adoption of the proposal in agreement with the european people's party.
in writing. ‒ draft amending budget no 5/2015 aims to strengthen the eu's resources to deal with migration and refugee flows following the recent tragedies in the mediterranean and the increase in the size of the migration flows. the adoption of draft amending budget no 5/2015 will increase the appropriations for commitments by eur 75 722 000 and those for payments by eur 69 652 000. the increase in payments will be transferred in full from the galileo programme, leaving the overall level of payment appropriations in the 2015 budget unchanged. on the basis of the above, i voted in favour of the adoption of the proposal in agreement with the european people's party.
in writing. ‒ draft amending budget no 5/2015 aims to strengthen the eu's resources to deal with migration and refugee flows following the recent tragedies in the mediterranean and the increase in the size of the migration flows. the adoption of draft amending budget no 5/2015 will increase the appropriations for commitments by eur 75 722 000 and those for payments by eur 69 652 000. the increase in payments will be transferred in full from the galileo programme, leaving the overall level of payment appropriations in the 2015 budget unchanged. on the basis of the above, the hungarian people's party delegation supported the adoption of the proposal in agreement with the european people's party.
in writing. ‒ the presentation is unfortunately incomplete. the planned increase in commitment clearly falls short of actual needs, the presentation only proposes to reallocate existing resources, not to increase the total amount of payment appropriations in the 2015 budget, and the proposed increase in the number of agencies concerned is not sufficient. however, it is suitable for financing the most urgent tasks, and i therefore voted in the hope that the commission would soon come forward with a more comprehensive proposal to deal with the problem in a real way and not just to fight fires.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the draft decision approving the decision of the european parliament, on a proposal from the commission, to transfer funds to tackle migratory pressure at the union's borders by amending this year's budget, at the expense of the galileo funding line, by compensating it for the following year. in considering my vote, i took note of the fact that the immediate reason for this decision was the recent tragedies of refugees in the mediterranean, but i also considered it important that in the future, in addition to the potential of the ukrainian refugee wave mentioned in the motion for a resolution, due attention should also be paid to the issue of addressing the migratory pressure that is persisting along our south-eastern, balkan schengen borders. i fully agree with the draft's statement that migration towards eu member states should be addressed at eu level, by common and coordinated methods and financial instruments, based on political, economic and demographic trends in the regions of origin. this also justifies a comprehensive structural and quantitative review of the relevant budgetary chapters, and i consider it particularly important to ensure strict control of the use of community funds for migration. in view of these longer-term considerations, i have also considered this decision to be an urgent, partial but positive step and have therefore supported it.
in writing. ‒ to address the migration pressure at the eu's external borders, the committee on budgets has tabled an amendment proposal, inter alia, to reallocate increased community budgetary resources to support the operation of frontex. i voted in favour of the amendment.
in writing. ‒ i agree that the policy of the milk package based on producer organisations and strengthening the bargaining position of producers is the way forward. further efforts should be made to protect milk producers in disadvantaged areas and in mountain areas. the amounts deducted from the milk levy should be kept within the agricultural budget and used to support the competitiveness of the milk sector. the authorisations of producer organisations should be further strengthened and their influence on the drawing up of collective supply contracts should be further increased. the performance of the milk monitoring centre needs to be improved. i voted in favour of the adoption of the report on the situation of the dairy sector, in line with the line taken by the european people's party.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the adoption of the report on the state of the dairy sector, in line with the guidelines of the european people's party. my colleague james nicholson, the northern ireland representative, has put a report on the table that is focused on production. i agree with him that the policy of the milk package based on producer organisations and strengthening the bargaining position of producers is the way forward. in addition, special efforts should be made to protect milk producers in disadvantaged areas and in mountain areas. the amounts deducted from the milk levy should be kept within the agricultural budget and used to support the competitiveness of the milk sector. the authorisations of producer organisations should be further strengthened and their influence on the drawing up of collective supply contracts should be further increased. the performance of the milk monitoring centre needs to be improved. the european commission should be invited to adjust the intervention prices to reflect the real market price and production costs. in addition, in the event of a serious crisis, the application of export refunds should be activated on a temporary basis. these proposals highlight the fundamental shortcomings of the union's crisis management and affect the functioning of the market for all product lines.
in writing. i voted in favour of the adoption of the report on the state of the dairy sector, in line with the guidelines of the european people's party. my colleague james nicholson, the northern ireland representative, has put a report on the table that is focused on production. i agree with him that the policy of the milk package based on producer organisations and strengthening the bargaining position of producers is the way forward. in addition, special efforts should be made to protect milk producers in disadvantaged areas and in mountain areas. the amounts deducted from the milk levy should be kept within the agricultural budget and used to support the competitiveness of the milk sector. the authorisations of producer organisations should be further strengthened and their influence on the drawing up of collective supply contracts should be further increased. the performance of the milk monitoring centre needs to be improved. it is a significant success for hungary that both of my colleague mr norbert erdős' proposals to increase the efficiency of crisis management have been included in the report. the european commission should be invited to adjust the intervention prices to reflect the real market price and production costs. in addition, in the event of a serious crisis, the application of export refunds should be activated on a temporary basis. these proposals highlight the fundamental shortcomings of the union's crisis management and affect the functioning of the market for all product lines.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the adoption of the report on the state of the dairy sector, in line with the guidelines of the european people's party. my colleague james nicholson, the northern ireland representative, has put a report on the table that is focused on production. i agree with him that the policy of the milk package based on producer organisations and strengthening the bargaining position of producers is the way forward. in addition, special efforts should be made to protect milk producers in disadvantaged areas and in mountain areas. the amounts deducted from the milk levy should be kept within the agricultural budget and used to support the competitiveness of the milk sector. the authorisations of producer organisations should be further strengthened and their influence on the drawing up of collective supply contracts should be further increased. the performance of the milk monitoring centre needs to be improved. it is a significant success for hungary that both of my proposals to increase the efficiency of crisis management were included in the report. the european commission should be invited to adjust the intervention prices to reflect the real market price and production costs. in addition, in the event of a serious crisis, the application of export refunds should be activated on a temporary basis. these proposals highlight the fundamental shortcomings of the union's crisis management and affect the functioning of the market for all product lines.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the adoption of the report on the state of the dairy sector, in line with the guidelines of the european people's party. my colleague james nicholson, the northern ireland representative, has put a report on the table that is focused on production. i agree with him that the policy of the milk package based on producer organisations and strengthening the bargaining position of producers is the way forward. in addition, special efforts should be made to protect milk producers in disadvantaged areas and in mountain areas. the amounts deducted from the milk levy should be kept within the agricultural budget and used to support the competitiveness of the milk sector. the authorisations of producer organisations should be further strengthened and their influence on the drawing up of collective supply contracts should be further increased. the performance of the milk monitoring centre needs to be improved. it is a significant success for hungary that both proposals to increase the efficiency of crisis management were included in the report. the european commission should be invited to adjust the intervention prices to reflect the real market price and production costs. in addition, in the event of a serious crisis, the application of export refunds should be activated on a temporary basis. these proposals highlight the fundamental shortcomings of the union's crisis management and affect the functioning of the market for all product lines.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the adoption of the report on the state of the dairy sector, in line with the guidelines of the european people's party. my colleague james nicholson, the northern ireland representative, has put a report on the table that is focused on production. i agree with him that the policy of the milk package based on producer organisations and strengthening the bargaining position of producers is the way forward. in addition, special efforts should be made to protect milk producers in disadvantaged areas and in mountain areas. the amounts deducted from the milk levy should be kept within the agricultural budget and used to support the competitiveness of the milk sector. the authorisations of producer organisations should be further strengthened and their influence on the drawing up of collective supply contracts should be further increased. the performance of the milk monitoring centre needs to be improved. it is a significant success for hungary that both of my colleague mr norbert erdős' proposals to increase the efficiency of crisis management have been included in the report. the european commission should be invited to adjust the intervention prices to reflect the real market price and production costs. in addition, in the event of a serious crisis, the application of export refunds should be activated on a temporary basis. these proposals highlight the fundamental shortcomings of the union's crisis management and affect the functioning of the market for all product lines.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the adoption of the report on the state of the dairy sector, in line with the guidelines of the european people's party. my colleague james nicholson, the northern ireland representative, has put a report on the table that is focused on production. i agree with him that the policy of the milk package based on producer organisations and strengthening the bargaining position of producers is the way forward. in addition, special efforts should be made to protect milk producers in disadvantaged areas and in mountain areas. the amounts deducted from the milk levy should be kept within the agricultural budget and used to support the competitiveness of the milk sector. the authorisations of producer organisations should be further strengthened and their influence on the drawing up of collective supply contracts should be further increased. the performance of the milk monitoring centre needs to be improved. i welcome the inclusion in the report of both of my colleague mr norbert erdős' proposals to improve the efficiency of crisis management. the european commission should be invited to adjust the intervention prices to reflect the real market price and production costs. in addition, in the event of a serious crisis, the application of export refunds should be activated on a temporary basis. these proposals highlight the fundamental shortcomings of the union's crisis management and affect the functioning of the market for all product lines.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the adoption of the report on the state of the dairy sector, in line with the guidelines of the european people's party. my colleague james nicholson, the northern ireland representative, has put a report on the table that is focused on production. i agree with him that the policy of the milk package based on producer organisations and strengthening the bargaining position of producers is the way forward. in addition, special efforts should be made to protect milk producers in disadvantaged areas and in mountain areas. the amounts deducted from the milk levy should be kept within the agricultural budget and used to support the competitiveness of the milk sector. the authorisations of producer organisations should be further strengthened and their influence on the drawing up of collective supply contracts should be further increased. the performance of the milk monitoring centre needs to be improved. it is a significant success for hungary that both of my colleague mr norbert erdős' proposals to increase the efficiency of crisis management have been included in the report. the european commission should be invited to adjust the intervention prices to reflect the real market price and production costs. in addition, in the event of a serious crisis, the application of export refunds should be activated on a temporary basis. these proposals highlight the fundamental shortcomings of the union's crisis management and affect the functioning of the market for all product lines.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the adoption of the report on the state of the dairy sector, in line with the guidelines of the european people's party. my colleague james nicholson, the northern ireland representative, has put a report on the table that is focused on production. i agree with him that the policy of the milk package based on producer organisations and strengthening the bargaining position of producers is the way forward. in addition, special efforts should be made to protect milk producers in disadvantaged areas and in mountain areas. the amounts deducted from the milk levy should be kept within the agricultural budget and used to support the competitiveness of the milk sector. the authorisations of producer organisations should be further strengthened and their influence on the drawing up of collective supply contracts should be further increased. the performance of the milk monitoring centre needs to be improved. it is a significant success for hungary that both of my colleague mr norbert erdős' proposals to increase the efficiency of crisis management have been included in the report. the european commission should be invited to adjust the intervention prices to reflect the real market price and production costs. in addition, in the event of a serious crisis, the application of export refunds should be activated on a temporary basis. these proposals highlight the fundamental shortcomings of the union's crisis management and affect the functioning of the market for all product lines.
in writing. ‒ the cap is a specific part of the union's policy, requiring specific knowledge and preparation. i have full confidence in the committee on agriculture and rural development's competence in this area and voted in favour of the motion on that basis.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the adoption of the report on the state of the dairy sector, in line with the guidelines of the european people's party. my colleague james nicholson, the northern ireland representative, has put a report on the table that is focused on production. i agree with him that the policy of the milk package based on producer organisations and strengthening the bargaining position of producers is the way forward. it is a significant success for hungary that both of my colleague mr norbert erdős' proposals to increase the efficiency of crisis management have been included in the report. the european commission should be invited to adjust the intervention prices to reflect the real market price and production costs. in addition, in the event of a serious crisis, the application of export refunds should be activated on a temporary basis. these proposals highlight the fundamental shortcomings of the union's crisis management and affect the functioning of the market for all product lines.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the proposal on dairy products, as the regulation on the sector, which has been in place for more than 30 years, has expired and the report contains useful elements for the development of the new regulation. the report also deals with the abolition of the quota system, which has been a concern for several member states. i believe that a mandatory contract between producers and processors, an enhanced role for the milk market observatory, the fight against unfair trading practices, improved information and promotion programmes and a new system of instruments to protect the profit margins of producers can help to reduce any negative impact. i am confident that the growth in global demand will provide opportunities for all member states to take advantage of. but this does not require propaganda on the part of governments, but active participation in eu negotiations, and concrete steps in my country, hungary! that is why i urge the preparation of the actors of the hungarian sector, social consultation, the involvement of civil society organisations in the development of a real and crystal clear strategy. i think it is important to note that the rural development funds, which are already long overdue, should be mobilised immediately for the sector and market acquisition should also be encouraged.
in writing. ‒ based on the many positive experiences with ppps, the presentation considers it important to make better use of the potential of ppps in non-eu countries and to this end urges the eu institutions to help eu enterprises, especially smes, to participate in ppp projects in third countries. i agree with both the findings and the proposal, and therefore i voted in favour of the motion.
in writing. ‒ it is of great importance for hungarian farmers and producer organisations that the european commission restores eu support for investments by newly established fruit and vegetable producer organisations. without this, it is extremely difficult for the newly formed organisations to obtain the necessary state recognition to operate. it is therefore one of the most effective tools for developing producer organisations and increasing the level of organisation. it is also a major step forward that the report calls on the commission to deal more effectively with crisis situations. on the one hand, the withdrawal mechanism needs to be improved and, on the other, intervention prices need to be adjusted to real market prices and production costs. i voted in favour of the adoption of the report on the state of the fruit and vegetables sector, in line with the line taken by the european people's party.
in writing. i voted in favour of the adoption of the report on the state of the fruit and vegetables sector, in line with the guidelines of the european people's party. we've made a major breakthrough today. the european parliament has supported mr erdős norbert's proposal that the european commission should restore eu aid for investments by newly created fruit and vegetable producer organisations. this is extremely important for hungarian farmers and producer organisations. without this, it is extremely difficult for the newly formed organisations to obtain the necessary state recognition to operate. it is therefore one of the most effective tools for developing producer organisations and increasing the level of organisation. i'm glad to see that explanation in the report. it is also a major step forward that the report calls on the commission to deal more effectively with crisis situations. on the one hand, the withdrawal mechanism needs to be improved and, on the other, intervention prices need to be adjusted to real market prices and production costs. this is in line with the opinion of my colleague mr norbert erdős on market crisis management, which he has already expressed on several occasions in various forums of the european parliament.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the adoption of the report on the state of the fruit and vegetables sector, in line with the guidelines of the european people's party. we've made a major breakthrough today. the european parliament has supported my proposal that the european commission should reintroduce eu aid for investments by newly created fruit and vegetable producer organisations. this is extremely important for us, hungarian farmers and producer organisations. without this, it is extremely difficult for the newly formed organisations to obtain the necessary state recognition to operate. it is therefore one of the most effective tools for developing producer organisations and increasing the level of organisation. i'm glad to see that explanation in the report. it is also a major step forward that the report calls on the commission to deal more effectively with crisis situations. on the one hand, the withdrawal mechanism needs to be improved and, on the other, intervention prices need to be adjusted to real market prices and production costs. this is in line with my view on crisis management, which i have expressed on many occasions in the european parliament.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the adoption of the report on the state of the fruit and vegetables sector, in line with the guidelines of the european people's party. the european parliament supported the european commission's reinstatement of eu aid for investments by newly created fruit and vegetable producer organisations. this is extremely important for hungarian farmers and producer organisations. without this, it is extremely difficult for the newly formed organisations to obtain the necessary state recognition to operate. it is therefore one of the most effective tools for developing producer organisations and increasing the level of organisation. it is also a major step forward that the report calls on the commission to deal more effectively with crisis situations. on the one hand, the withdrawal mechanism needs to be improved and, on the other, intervention prices need to be adjusted to real market prices and production costs.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the adoption of the report on the state of the fruit and vegetables sector, in line with the guidelines of the european people's party. we've made a major breakthrough today. the european parliament has supported mr erdős norbert's proposal that the european commission should restore eu aid for investments by newly created fruit and vegetable producer organisations. this is extremely important for hungarian farmers and producer organisations. without this, it is extremely difficult for the newly formed organisations to obtain the necessary state recognition to operate. it is therefore one of the most effective tools for developing producer organisations and increasing the level of organisation. i'm glad to see that explanation in the report. it is also a major step forward that the report calls on the commission to deal more effectively with crisis situations. on the one hand, the withdrawal mechanism needs to be improved and, on the other, intervention prices need to be adjusted to real market prices and production costs. this is in line with the opinion of my colleague mr norbert erdős on market crisis management, which he has already expressed on several occasions in various forums of the european parliament.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the adoption of the report on the state of the fruit and vegetables sector as a member of the fidesz-kdnp delegation, in line with the guidelines of the european people's party. the european parliament supported the proposal of mr erdős norbert that the european commission should reintroduce eu aid for investments by newly created fruit and vegetable producer organisations. this is extremely important for hungarian farmers and producer organisations. without this, it is extremely difficult for the newly formed organisations to obtain the necessary state recognition to operate. it is therefore one of the most effective tools for developing producer organisations and increasing the level of organisation. it is also a major step forward that the report calls on the commission to deal more effectively with crisis situations. on the one hand, the withdrawal mechanism needs to be improved and, on the other, intervention prices need to be adjusted to real market prices and production costs.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the adoption of the report on the state of the fruit and vegetables sector, in line with the guidelines of the european people's party. we've made a major breakthrough today. the european parliament has supported mr erdős norbert's proposal that the european commission should restore eu aid for investments by newly created fruit and vegetable producer organisations. this is extremely important for hungarian farmers and producer organisations. without this, it is extremely difficult for the newly formed organisations to obtain the necessary state recognition to operate. it is therefore one of the most effective tools for developing producer organisations and increasing the level of organisation. i'm glad to see that explanation in the report. it is also a major step forward that the report calls on the commission to deal more effectively with crisis situations. on the one hand, the withdrawal mechanism needs to be improved and, on the other, intervention prices need to be adjusted to real market prices and production costs. this is in line with the opinion of my colleague mr norbert erdős on market crisis management, which he has already expressed on several occasions in various forums of the european parliament.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the adoption of the report on the state of the fruit and vegetables sector, in line with the guidelines of the european people's party. we've made a major breakthrough today. the european parliament has supported mr erdős norbert's proposal that the european commission should restore eu aid for investments by newly created fruit and vegetable producer organisations. this is extremely important for hungarian farmers and producer organisations. without this, it is extremely difficult for the newly formed organisations to obtain the necessary state recognition to operate. it is therefore one of the most effective tools for developing producer organisations and increasing the level of organisation. i'm glad to see that explanation in the report. it is also a major step forward that the report calls on the commission to deal more effectively with crisis situations. on the one hand, the withdrawal mechanism needs to be improved and, on the other, intervention prices need to be adjusted to real market prices and production costs. this is in line with the opinion of my colleague mr norbert erdős on market crisis management, which he has already expressed on several occasions in various forums of the european parliament.
in writing. ‒ the cap is a specific part of the union's policy, requiring specific knowledge and preparation. i have full confidence in the committee on agriculture and rural development's competence in this area and voted in favour of the motion on that basis.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the adoption of the report on the state of the fruit and vegetables sector, in line with the guidelines of the european people's party. we've made a major breakthrough today. the european parliament has supported mr erdős norbert's proposal that the european commission should restore eu aid for investments by newly created fruit and vegetable producer organisations. this is extremely important for hungarian farmers and producer organisations. without this, it is extremely difficult for the newly formed organisations to obtain the necessary state recognition to operate. it is therefore one of the most effective tools for developing producer organisations and increasing the level of organisation. i'm glad to see that explanation in the report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report as it makes important findings and suggestions concerning the fruit and vegetable sector in hungary and the eu. as is well known, the 2007 reform aimed to strengthen producer organisations in the sector, on the one hand by providing a wider range of tools to prevent and manage market risks, and on the other by improving and concentrating supply, increasing quality and competitiveness, adapting supply to the market and providing technical support for environmentally friendly production. i agree that the european commission's report gives a balanced picture of the development of the sector since the 2007 reform, and a realistic picture of the problems that remain. the report rightly calls on the commission to step up its efforts to tackle unfair trading practices in the food supply chain and to take further steps to protect producers. i agree that it is necessary to continue to support producer organisations, to maintain european quality standards and to promote european quality and standardisation elements in negotiations with third countries. the report is therefore an important step towards harmonising and helping the eu fruit and vegetable sector, but i believe that the system will only be fully harmonised and solidarity based when member states cannot tax our food too much.
on behalf of the ppe group.– mr president, we often say here in the house that europe is in a difficult phase, a difficult situation in its history. this week i think we can rightly say this, but that underlines the fact that we have to work on the effectiveness of how our union works. the exercise of discussing the commission’s work programme is something like that. let us go back a little bit. i am glad that the vice-president started with a little stocktaking because, here in the middle of the year, we can already see what has been happening. on behalf of the epp i can confirm that the commission has made a quick start and a good start. the investment package and many other initiatives have been strong, and on behalf of parliament we would like to help this process of going forward in these areas. this energetic start should go on. i also would like to comment on the point that many have misinterpreted parliament’s decision in january about the lack of support or a resolution on the commission’s work programme. normally in election years this is not required, because planning is much longer and much more preparation is needed, so it is not a failure to meet our obligations. but this year is a full year, which means that we can already have full preparation, which we are doing. obviously, i am not saying that the preparation process is perfect. for example, in the negotiations which we are now having here in parliament, we have had to discuss all the things which had been done in this last half year – all the compromises which we are going to foresee in the next year and the second part of this year – which are a little bit too dense, which means that we cannot make the same kind of compromises. however, in exercise of parliament’s very important power, which is the right of initiative, we have this instrument which we have to use in order to get some kind of ideas on the commission table, and we expect the commission to follow those. the first thing is the method. i am glad that the vice-president has mentioned that we want effective legislation, fighting red tape (including a significant reduction of the cost of the bureaucratic burden), and the transposition, implementation and enforcement of eu legislation. very often we do not need new legislation; we just need to implement that which already exists in the right way. it obviously should not be a question of vanity whether someone has a report or a piece of legislation. we have to look more thoroughly in this parliament at whether we can do more with a view to implementation. the commission has to do the same. so this is why we are fully supporting the better law-making exercise and law-making programme. another very important matter is the alignment of the legislation to the delegated and implementing act provisions of the lisbon treaty. this is a big delay; the lisbon treaty has been in force for quite a long time. we have seen resistance on the part of the council. the commission should also help parliament to have full rights in this, otherwise we are falling into a constant inter-institutional fight in this area. we should solve this problem; it is already impossible that we have not gone further ahead on this. unfortunately, the commission has withdrawn this piece of legislation. we hope that in the framework of the better law-making package we can do more. in our view, jobs remain the top priority; mobility and flexibility of the labour market have to be improved, as well as youth employment. the digital agenda has to play a crucial role in our society, especially in creating and re-shoring jobs, improving skills of eu citizens and work and school for the younger generation, giving better access to digital services. the next development of the emu should be based, in our view, on the existing two-pack and six-pack legislation. we are against any revision of these two main instruments for the moment; we want them to be fully implemented and applied. on taxation policy, which is an integral part of the structural reform of the member states, we would like to see a development, a shift of the tax burden from labour to other forms of taxation. concerning the eu budget, the fight against tax fraud and evasion, supporting the better performance of the eu budget, is something very important. so just to sum up, we would now like parliament to say that we want to have a say in this exercise, and this is what our resolution, hopefully, will be there to do. i hope that many colleagues in this house can support the joint resolutions which we have prepared.
the european commission's new programme clearly states that it supports legal forms of migration and that it will take strong action against illegal migration. i ask you to make a clear distinction between the two here in public. explain to european citizens what legal and illegal migration is. what we do know is that legal migration is obviously when someone is fleeing war, seeking asylum. i ask why such a person would destroy and throw away his passport, his identity documents, on the serbian side of the schengen hungarian-serbian border, why he would not present his passport and say, "please, i come from syria, from a war zone, i am in danger of my life, please declare me a refugee". my second question is: how can people who come from muslim countries leave behind their female family members, their wives, their children, their mothers in a life-threatening war situation? i'd like an explanation for that, which you obviously have official knowledge of.
the eu emissions trading scheme was introduced to ensure the eu's commitment to reduce emissions in a cost-effective way. the 2020 target is automatically guaranteed by the total quota. all interventions in the functioning of the market, including the stabilisation reserve, are necessary because of over-fulfillment. because of ambition, while the eu is responsible for only 9% of global emissions. after 2020, the free quota would be reserved for the most efficient installations. that is, a power plant or steel plant that has made all the possible improvements with the technology in question, but not the most advanced one available, becomes uncompetitive and may close down by paying the expensive quota. tens of thousands of jobs will be lost, the flow of imports will come from ukraine, steel from india, where they don't care about carbon emissions. is that what we want?
it's a two-card draw. listening to the previous speech, i wondered if there was actually a rational explanation for why someone would start protesting against putting the issues that affect our lives into the market. all of europe is trying to adapt to this situation with its terrible and dangerous prospects. you can't really - how to say - find individual paths in this. so i ask the hon. member to... (the president withdraws)
the committee on the internal market and consumer protection has delivered its opinion. other as rapporteur for the budgetary committee of the imco committee, i believe that the single market and consumer policy within it must remain a key and priority area, particularly in terms of economic growth. however, it is very important to have adequate budget lines for this area. i believe that the commission's figures in the may report provide a good framework for this, and i thank you for that. i would like to emphasise that a balanced and adequate financial framework is still needed for the functioning of the customs union and for the functioning of the standardisation bodies. in a rapidly changing environment like the one we live in, it is very important that we put proper emphasis on standards. i would like to raise a painful point, however, to which i would like to draw the commissioner's attention. this is the single market forum. as i'm sure you know, this is the last year of preparatory work, when this forum still exists in this form. we'd like to keep that in this content. i'd like to hear some words of encouragement in this area.
it was a pleasure to hear that the 2016 eu budget will provide substantial support, help for the poorest countries in the union, strengthen solidarity between rich and poor member states, increase the so-called cohesion, but as usual we have heard only generalizations about this, so i will ask the commissioner, or the rapporteur, what specific measures these will be, what budget lines. for example, what can a hungarian citizen expect in terms of the eu budget making efforts to stop economic emigration from hungary and other poorer countries, to raise the standard of living as promised when hungary and other countries were lured into the union, to improve income conditions? i'm waiting for a specific response from the officer and the reporter.
i would like to ask the european union to stop playing the bagpipes and to stop speaking in two languages. if the european commissioner is listening to me, i would ask you, the commissioner, the rapporteur and the council representative to give a clear answer to the question whether hungary has the right to protect its own border, which is also the schengen border of the european union, by building a fence against cross-border criminals, terrorists and illegal border trespassers. does he have the right to reinstate his border guard? you are constantly talking about protecting european union citizens from cross-border crime, especially terrorism, while thousands of border crossers are entering hungary through the green border. they're not all terrorists, but they could very easily be terrorists. what's your answer, officer?
mr president, the european union is based on three pillars: multinational companies and banks order, those in political power deliver and the media sells it to the people. it is a complete concentration of power, and of course the most important european value is completely absent from it: separation of powers, checks and balances. because of this, a new presidency is always a new hope. it is only individuals with their hearts and their brains in the right place who can challenge this system. maybe in an office of the luxembourg government, or maybe in this room, there is a young lawyer – a young person with heart and brain in the right place – who is going to end up being the european edward snowden. i wish her well. god bless her.
in writing. i was pleased to read in the luxembourg presidency's programme that energy issues were to be addressed in the next six months. among the different dimensions of the energy union, the presidency highlighted the area of research, development and innovation. these are really important questions that we need to address. we probably haven't talked about them much. at the same time, i hope that other important areas of energy policy, such as infrastructure development, the bi-directionalisation of pipelines or diversification, will not be overlooked. we've just made it through a winter without a gas crisis, but surely none of us want to have to worry about the next plot. ensuring the security of energy supply is still the number one energy policy mandate for all responsible european leaders today. tomorrow we will not live in a world of smart metering and decentralized energy production. we must do everything we can to spread these technologies, but in the meantime we must ensure a continuous supply of energy. i therefore ask the luxembourg presidency to focus on the pressing problems of the present, alongside the challenges of the future, in the field of energy policy. in this work, you can count on the european parliament, which has just begun to discuss the commission's proposal for an energy union.
in writing. i think it is important that the eu leaders have recognised that not only the problems of accommodating people rescued at sea need to be tackled jointly, but that the problem of those arriving on land also needs to be addressed quickly. hungary has been hit by a wave of immigration that is the highest in europe in terms of population. just last weekend, over 2,000 asylum seekers were registered, bringing the total to 70,000 this year. this year's wave of immigration is not a special event of war, the result of persecution, which is limited in time, space, number, finite. europe has faced these problems before, but it has managed them well. the current wave of migration, due to its scale and scope, is about to create an unmanageable situation. the unresolved issues of immigration that we have to face are the biggest challenges for our children and even our grandchildren. so we need less generous flattery today and more responsible, forward-looking action. statistics show that many more are arriving who, in the hope of better living, are giving up everything to enter the promised europe. the actual number of refugees is much lower. we need to find a solution with the appropriate sensitivity and empathy, so that those who are really in need receive the right help, but not as an invitation to tens of thousands more. only in this way can the member states protect their borders, ensure the normal course of life and preserve this europe in the long term.
it is the responsibility and duty of all of us to protect the lives, dignity and fundamental rights of people everywhere in the world. the attacks that have occurred in recent times are terrifying in their reality and in their symbolism, for they send the message that any of us, anywhere in the world, can be a victim. there is no acceptable explanation for such actions, so we must use all means to prevent them. one of the tasks we have to do is to work together, to look for partners in the world, as the commissioner has said. we need to harness the resources available, trained, effective law enforcement to protect our safety and our values. we need to prevent the radicalization of young adults in our normal societies. at the same time, let me also speak about the innocent victims who are persecuted for their faith, and i am thinking here of the christians, many of them women and children, who are today victims of the atrocities of isis. they are the martyrs of our century. in addition to the human losses, we must also speak out against the destruction of priceless monuments dating back thousands of years in regions known as the cradle of our civilization. we'll have less of a humanity.
it's a two-card draw. mr. deputy, you have dealt with this problem quite well, because it is a very serious problem which is a source of tension between different religions, but i think that this element has not been of great importance in european foreign policy so far. how would you include the settlement of religious issues in conflict resolution?
blue-card question.– i will just repeat this, but shift into english as well. my question was that your point of view, and then your panorama of the religious conflicts, was a mainly new element in the interpretation here in this room, and i was just wondering whether you feel a need for a further development of this argument. that was all my question was about.
in writing. we must continue to stand united against the increasing violence and killings in the middle east by daesh against religious minorities, including christians. the european union is a leader in helping refugees. it is also our moral duty in europe to further increase our efforts to protect the persecuted. the effectiveness of the aid is greatly enhanced by the critical efforts of local churches in support of christian and other indigenous minorities persecuted by the dáis. without them, the rise of radical islam in the middle east would have been a catastrophe long ago. i'll give you concrete examples: the chaldean catholic church in northern iraq is now responsible for the daily care of hundreds of thousands of refugees, or the jesuit refugee service in syria. most of this is financed by their own funds and by international church donations. churches run successful projects and reach out directly to those who need it most. however, the current eu aid procedure does not consider local churches as partners and prevents their direct participation in european aid projects. it is essential that the institutions of the union responsible for aid and development see the professional church aid organisations as partners in humanitarian action. we can't afford to leave the people who are most affected by this situation out of the loop. the eu's decision-makers urgently need to think together to overcome the humanitarian crisis together with local partners.
on behalf of the verts/ale group.– mr president, first of all i would like to thank mr kukan for the exemplary collegial and cooperative attitude with which he steered through a difficult and wide-ranging report. i personally enjoyed our work immensely and i thank you for that, mr kukan, together with the shadow rapporteurs. i rarely enjoy the luxury of two-and-a-half minutes’ leisurely time, but nevertheless i want to concentrate on one aspect which unfortunately was left out of the report. i would like to try to convince those who are still with me on the merits of it. we are all supportive of differentiation, flexibility, efficacy and coherence in our policies towards our neighbours. this is natural for us as well. we offer our full support for all measures that could strengthen our common policies. however, the valued principle of ‘more for more’ squares badly with conditionality and coherence once we observe that some of our neighbours happen to backtrack on development towards democracy. what are the options that we are left with if one of the neighbouring countries happens to imprison some political opponents or threaten them with the death penalty? as much as we like soft power – and its best expression is ‘more for more’, and we agree on that – unless we are able to say that we are going to offer less for less if backtracking takes place, then our policies are not going to be highly coherent. this is very important because our neighbourhood policies, as the report itself shows, have produced mixed results at best in the last couple of years. the failed state of libya and the less-than-half success of the eastern partnership show that the new challenges in our immediate environment need new responses. these new responses are enumerated in the report and we offer support for all those measures. i would like to end by asking colleagues to support this report with their votes.
mr president, one of my young political memories is of the helsinki conference in 1975, which launched the process of european de-escalation and triggered what can be described as almost revolutionary changes in the field of human and minority rights. the helsinki process, which began 40 years ago, led directly to the collapse of soviet communism and, as a result, to the dismantling of the iron curtain and the emergence of the democratic europe of today. it is a curious twist of fate that russia, one of the founding members of the osce, cannot celebrate the anniversary of the historic helsinki final act with the other founding members. we are witnessing a serious decline in peace, security, dialogue and cooperation, as the initial encouraging results of the european neighbourhood policy have meanwhile backfired. the eu's eastern partnership policy has been in a permanent crisis, in particular as a result of the retreating soviet imperial legacy. the situation now in place fully justifies the strategic need to review our european neighbourhood policy. the interests of both the european union and the european partnership countries require a renewal of our neighbourhood policy based on the european values of fundamental human rights, the rule of law, democracy, freedom and human dignity. finally, may i congratulate mr. kukan on his excellent work.
mr president, looking back at the past, i am reminded of the year 2012, when the european union won the nobel peace prize. and then three years passed, and in the neighborhood of a peaceful europe, a nobel peace prize winning europe, we saw flames. of these, perhaps the most mentioned today is the ukrainian crisis, although it should be added that these crises in any part of our neighbourhood are not just in themselves, they are not because something has gone wrong in one country or another, but, i think, they have broader contexts, so it is high time that we undertook a comprehensive and conceptual review of our neighbourhood policy. i believe, mr president, that this neighbourhood policy cannot succeed if europe is not united. i am a little bit disappointed that we have two very, very well-trained commissioners, mr hahn and mrs mogherini, who are dealing with these issues and are being replaced by other european leaders in most cases, although it is obvious that what they are doing is not useless either. but we need unity, and that includes not making friends with our opponents in certain eu member states - i can even think of the friendship between orbán and putin. so i think the real stake of the neighbourhood policy is how europe can deal with it, and i'm afraid we're going to have to work on that nobel peace prize a second time, this time in the neighbourhood.
in writing.– recent events call for immediate solutions, and intensive communications are needed between eu and neighbourhood countries. the eu has to implement appropriate treatment of the neighbourhood countries’ claims, take common responsibility, inspire the judicial, economic, social reforms, the fight against corruption, and pay attention to the rights of the national minorities in the partner countries. for example, as a first step of the administration reform in ukraine, the law ‘on voluntary association of local authorities/communities’ was adopted in which point 4, article 4 states that during the administrative reforms the historical, linguistic and ethnic characteristics have to be taken into account. the related article of the regulation provides an opportunity for the national minorities to organise at the municipal level. however the 11th article of the government’s resolution containing the implementation of the law does not include directives considering the ethnic aspects as it is in the law, which can affect detrimentally the national minorities. it is very important to modify the government’s resolution as soon as possible according to the law and considering the rights of the national minorities living in ukraine. i therefore call on the eu to pay necessary attention to the necessary reforms in ukraine and other neighbourhood countries.
in writing.– today, here at the european parliament, we honour the memory of the over 8 000 innocent men and boys – brothers and husbands, fathers and sons – who were brutally murdered in srebrenica in a brazen act of genocide that shocked the world. the name srebrenica will forever be associated with some of the darkest acts of the 20th century. we know that srebrenica’s future, and that of bosnia and herzegovina, will not be held back by its painful recent history. we reject efforts to distort the scope of this atrocity, rationalise the motivations behind it, blame the victims, and deny the indisputable fact that it was genocide. we all desire continued reconciliation and peaceful coexistence for the people of bosnia and herzegovina and the balkans, because achieving that will be the ultimate repudiation of the evil that started the wars in bosnia and herzegovina and elsewhere in the region and that led to the srebrenica genocide. our hearts and deepest sympathies are with them, and we pledge our enduring commitment to support their aspirations for a better tomorrow.
we're all about making the best laws. this is officer oettinger.
i'll close this discussion. the vote will take place on thursday 9 july 2015. the commission shall be assisted by the committee established by article 15 of regulation (eu) no 182/2011.
the following is a summary of the report prepared by andrzej grzyb on behalf of the committee on foreign affairs: the commission shall be assisted by the european parliament and the council.
madam president, i congratulate mr grzyb on his excellent work and welcome the eed review report which shows that we have succeeded in creating a tool that is flexible, responsive and able to help where it is needed most. i am pleased that, on my own initiative, the report mentions ethnic and linguistic minorities as one of the main target groups of this instrument. this will, among other things, provide effective support to minorities in ukraine to strengthen their communities at both local and national levels. in light of recent events, i also see it as very important that this tool can be used to protect religious freedom. it is the responsibility and duty of all of us to use this instrument to protect especially the christians who are the most persecuted.
i'll close this discussion. the vote will take place on thursday 9 july 2015. (the sitting was suspended at 11.55 a.m. until the time of the vote and resumed at 12 noon)
mr president, when i had to vote on the infamous ttip and the eu-us free trade agreement, i imagined a european, ideally hungarian, family farm, where healthy, high-quality food is produced, livestock is raised, crops are grown, farmers live in dignity, consumers are healthy and satisfied. suddenly, the whole society, both farmers and consumers, are demanding that they don't want that, but instead they want to import frozen, genetically modified, hormone-laden, chemical-laden chicken and other food from the united states. having established that this is completely unviable and harmful and obviously serves the interests of some very narrow group, i naturally voted no and i suggest to the hungarian people to protest against this shameful, secretly prepared draft agreement.
mr president, i voted against the document which would allow for a free trade agreement between the eu and the usa. because, of course, if someone takes seriously the fact that we, the directly elected representatives, represent the interests of the population, then they could only vote no, because those who voted yes represent the interests of the multinational companies. the two economies are not in the same weight class, europe can only lose. it is a big delusion that small and medium-sized european enterprises are the focus, 87% of them produce for the domestic market, the internal market. do they get to america? no, i'm not going. the american companies with the capital, the aggressive marketing, they're taking away the opportunity. and by the way, it's misleading that the dispute resolution mechanism is now solved. not a private court, but a court created by a vague proposal, we don't know what kind of court allows these companies to sue sovereign states for their lost profits.
in writing. ‒ the ep resolution adopted today is a breakthrough, as it calls on the european commission, which negotiates on behalf of the union, to abandon the much-debated isds mechanism. the ep also calls for a new eu-wide system of dispute settlement to be set up to ensure that the eu's citizens are not left behind. the european parliament has adopted a clear, favourable position on gmo-free status, the ban on hormone treatment in the cattle sector and all related public health issues, which is also important for hungary. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of personal data, which is a key element of the eu's new directive on the protection of personal data. that is why i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ the ep resolution adopted today is a breakthrough, as it calls on the european commission, which negotiates on behalf of the union, to abandon the much-debated isds mechanism. the ep also calls for a new eu-wide system of dispute settlement to be set up to ensure that the eu's citizens are not left behind. i myself made amendments during the debate to the alternative dispute settlement, which does not infringe national sovereignty, similar to the one just adopted. this part shall apply mutatis mutandis. it is reassuring that on this issue the people's party has moved in the right direction and supported the compromise. the european parliament has taken a clear, favourable position on gmo-free status, the ban on hormone treatment in the cattle sector and all related public health issues, which are also important for our country. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of personal data, which is a key element of the eu's new directive on the protection of personal data. that is why i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. the ep resolution adopted today is a breakthrough, as it calls on the european commission, which is negotiating on behalf of the union, to abandon the much-debated isds mechanism. the ep also calls for a new eu-wide system of dispute settlement to be set up to ensure that the eu's citizens are not left behind. i myself made amendments to the alternative dispute settlement, which is not an infringement of national sovereignty, similar to the one just adopted. it is reassuring that on this issue the people's party has moved in the right direction and supported the compromise. the european parliament has taken a clear, favourable position on gmo-free status, the ban on hormone treatment in the cattle sector and all related public health issues, which are also important for our country. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of personal data, which is a key element of the eu's new directive on the protection of personal data. that is why i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ the ep resolution adopted today is a breakthrough, as it calls on the european commission, which negotiates on behalf of the union, to abandon the much-debated isds mechanism. the ep also calls for a new eu-wide system of dispute settlement to be set up to ensure that the eu's citizens are not left behind. i myself made amendments during the debate to the alternative dispute settlement, which does not infringe national sovereignty, similar to the one just adopted. this part shall apply mutatis mutandis. it is reassuring that on this issue the people's party has moved in the right direction and supported the compromise. the european parliament has adopted a clear and favourable position on the exemption from customs duties of sensitive agricultural sectors which are also important for our country, on respect for the protection of eu origin, on gmo exemption, on the ban on hormone treatment in the cattle sector and on all related agricultural and public health issues. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of personal data, which is a key element of the eu's new directive on the protection of personal data. that is why i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ the ep resolution adopted today is a breakthrough, as it calls on the european commission, which is negotiating on behalf of the union, to abandon the much-debated isds mechanism. the ep also calls for a new eu-wide system of dispute settlement to be set up to ensure that the eu's citizens are not left behind. it is reassuring that on this issue the people's party has moved in the right direction and supported the compromise. the european parliament has taken a clear, favourable position on gmo-free status, the ban on hormone treatment in the cattle sector and all related public health issues, which are also important for our country. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of personal data, which is a key element of the eu's new directive on the protection of personal data. that is why i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ the ep resolution adopted today is a breakthrough, as it calls on the european commission, which is negotiating on behalf of the union, to abandon the much-debated isds mechanism. the ep also calls for a new eu-wide system of dispute settlement to be set up to ensure that the eu's citizens are not left behind. i myself made amendments during the debate to the alternative dispute settlement, which does not infringe national sovereignty, similar to the one just adopted. this part shall apply mutatis mutandis. it is reassuring that on this issue the people's party has moved in the right direction and supported the compromise. the european parliament has taken a clear, favourable position on gmo-free status, the ban on hormone treatment in the cattle sector and all related public health issues, which are also important for our country. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of personal data, which is a key element of the eu's new directive on the protection of personal data. that is why i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ the ep resolution adopted today is a breakthrough, as it calls on the european commission, which is negotiating on behalf of the union, to abandon the much-debated isds mechanism. the ep also calls for a new eu-wide system of dispute settlement to be set up to ensure that the eu's citizens are not left behind. it is reassuring that on this issue the people's party has moved in the right direction and supported the compromise. the european parliament has taken a clear, favourable position on gmo-free status, the ban on hormone treatment in the cattle sector and all related public health issues, which are also important for our country. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of personal data, which is a key element of the eu's new directive on the protection of personal data. that is why i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ the european parliament resolution adopted today is a breakthrough, as it calls on the european commission, negotiating on behalf of the union, to abandon the much-debated isds mechanism. the ep also calls for a new eu-wide system of dispute settlement to be set up to ensure that the eu's citizens are not left behind. it is reassuring that on this issue the people's party has moved in the right direction and supported the compromise. the european parliament has taken a clear, favourable position on gmo-free status, the ban on hormone treatment in the cattle sector and all related public health issues, which are also important for our country. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of personal data, which is a key element of the eu's new directive on the protection of personal data. that is why i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ the ep resolution adopted today is a breakthrough, as it calls on the european commission, which is negotiating on behalf of the union, to abandon the much-debated isds mechanism. the ep also calls for a new eu-wide system of dispute settlement to be set up to ensure that the eu's citizens are not left behind. i myself made amendments during the debate to the alternative dispute settlement, which does not infringe national sovereignty, similar to the one just adopted. this part shall apply mutatis mutandis. it is reassuring that on this issue the people's party has moved in the right direction and supported the compromise. the european parliament has taken a clear, favourable position on gmo-free status, the ban on hormone treatment in the cattle sector and all related public health issues, which are also important for our country. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of personal data, which is a key element of the eu's new directive on the protection of personal data. that is why i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ i am a strong supporter of ttip, which i see as a great opportunity for europe to recover from the economic crisis. the agreement under negotiation is, however, subject to a number of critical comments from the european public and its public acceptance is unfortunately low. i agree with the rapporteur that this can be helped above all by transparency in the negotiations, and i think that the report is aimed at achieving the highest possible degree of transparency.
in writing. ‒ the ep resolution adopted today is a breakthrough, as it calls on the european commission, which is negotiating on behalf of the union, to abandon the much-debated isds mechanism. the ep also calls for a new eu-wide system of dispute settlement to be set up to ensure that the eu's citizens are not left behind. i myself made amendments during the debate to the alternative dispute settlement, which does not infringe national sovereignty, similar to the one just adopted. this part shall apply mutatis mutandis. it is reassuring that on this issue the people's party has moved in the right direction and supported the compromise. the european parliament has taken a clear, favourable position on gmo-free status, the ban on hormone treatment in the cattle sector and all related public health issues, which are also important for our country. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of personal data, which is a key element of the eu's new directive on the protection of personal data. that is why i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution because i believe that the european parliament should exercise active political control and direction throughout the negotiations for ttip, and our decision today is an important element of this. the ttip can be an important tool in regulating globalisation processes and improving the eu's international competitiveness, but this requires a number of legal, political and economic framework conditions, which are duly laid down in this resolution and thus set the tone for the commission's negotiations with the us side. i believe that as the negotiations progress, the ep should have more discussions and resolutions of this kind, in particular with a view to ensuring that the agreement will lead to a better global competitive position for the eu and, ultimately, to real jobs and growth in europe, without prejudice to eu labour, social, environmental and consumer protection standards. the resolution also has the important merit of providing a compromise solution to the existing isds mechanism and its inherent opaque practices that disadvantage individual investors or governments, by creating a new, transparent and democratically controlled public system. the ep has thus contributed to the commission's ability to have a clear negotiating framework for the next round of negotiations on this highly controversial issue, which serves european interests.
in writing. ‒ having regard to the draft protocol to the stabilisation and association agreement between the european communities and their member states, of the one part, and the former yugoslav republic of macedonia, of the other part, to take account of the accession of the republic of croatia to the european union, and having regard to the recommendation of the committee on foreign affairs, i agree to the conclusion of the agreement and have voted in favour of its adoption.
in writing. ‒ the epp delegation, in agreement with the people's party, is in favour of strengthening the contractual relations between the former yugoslav republic of macedonia, the southernmost member of the former socialist federal republic of yugoslavia with a population of 2 million, and the european communities since 1996. since independence, the country has faced enormous challenges to its political stability. the ohrid framework agreement signed on 13 august 2001 and the commitments of the governments in office since 2001 to implement it have restored stability. the government will continue to effectively implement the new legislative framework, which will further enhance the stability and confidence of the country and help create the increasingly favourable climate for eu integration. the european union is consistently supporting this process. the eu's commitment to peace and stability in the country has been further confirmed by the eu. the report adopted today also aimed at achieving stability and sustainable development.
in writing. ‒ the stabilisation and association agreement between the european communities and their member states and the former yugoslav republic of macedonia needs to be amended and supplemented as a result of the accession of a new member state, namely croatia. the motion is for ratification of the protocol.
in writing. ‒ the accession of croatia to the european union makes it necessary to update the supplementary agreements. having regard to the draft protocol to the stabilisation and association agreement between the european communities and their member states, of the one part, and the republic of serbia, of the other part, to take account of the accession of the republic of croatia to the european union, and to the recommendation of the committee on foreign affairs, i agree to the conclusion of the agreement and have voted in favour of the adoption of the recommendation.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the agreement, in line with the european people's party line, which i believe strengthens the already close ties between the eu and serbia and creates a contractual relationship between the two parties. the agreement will provide a new framework for political dialogue, stabilise the free trade area and strengthen bilateral economic relations, and is thus expected to bring significant economic benefits to serbia. i also consider it important to underline that the agreement will stimulate reform processes that will contribute to the growth of the serbian economy and will help serbia to develop into a fully functioning market economy. the agreement also lays the foundations for enhanced cooperation between the union and serbia in a number of areas in the future. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the eu's environmental legislation, in particular in the fight against organised crime and cross-border illicit trafficking, and in improving existing environmental standards. the report adopted today was also aimed at achieving stability and sustainable development.
in writing. ‒ the stabilisation and association agreement between the european communities and their member states and serbia needs to be amended and supplemented as appropriate following the enlargement of the eu to include a new member state, namely croatia. the motion is for ratification of the protocol.
in writing. ‒ in line with the recommendation of the committee on industry, research and energy, as a member of the fidesz-kdnp delegation, i voted in favour of renewing the agreement on scientific and technological cooperation concluded in 2001 with the government of the republic of india. i think it's important to ensure continuity, so i'm extending it for five years.
in writing. in accordance with the recommendation of the committee on industry, research and energy, as a member of the fidesz-kdnp delegation, i voted in favour of renewing the agreement on scientific and technological cooperation concluded in 2001 with the government of the republic of india. i think it's important to ensure continuity, so i'm extending it for five years.
in writing. ‒ in line with the recommendation of the committee on industry, research and energy, as a member of the fidesz-kdnp delegation, i voted in favour of renewing the agreement on scientific and technological cooperation concluded in 2001 with the government of the republic of india. i think it's important to ensure continuity, so i'm extending it for five years.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of renewing the agreement. as vice-president for the south-east asia region, i believe it is important to highlight that south asia faces the greatest development challenges of the new century. poverty, overpopulation, civil wars and environmental problems are placing a heavy burden on the countries of the region. i welcome the european union's strong commitment to peace and stability in south asia. it has consistently encouraged dialogue between india and pakistan, condemned all forms of terrorism and violence and expressed its readiness to support the peace process. i also support the development of an approach that looks at how the eu can contribute to peace, security and prosperity and how it can support regional integration. strengthening civil society cooperation between the eu and india is a long-term objective.
in writing. ‒ in line with the recommendation of the committee on industry, research and energy, as a member of the fidesz-kdnp delegation, i voted in favour of renewing the agreement on scientific and technological cooperation concluded in 2001 with the government of the republic of india. i think it's important to ensure continuity, so i'm extending it for five years.
in writing. ‒ the 2002 agreement between the european community and the government of the republic of india on scientific and technological cooperation needs to be renewed under the terms of the original treaty. i agree with the convention, and i have already supported its renewal in the committee on industry, trade and research, which is the rapporteur.
in writing. ‒ as a member of the fidesz-kdnp delegation, i voted in favour of associating the faroe islands, which belong to the kingdom of denmark, to the horizon 2020 research and innovation framework programme. in addition to joining the programme, it was agreed that researchers and engineers would visit each other and hold joint symposia. i trust that both parties can make the most of this cooperation.
in writing. as a member of the fidesz-kdnp delegation, i voted in favour of associating the faroe islands, which belong to the kingdom of denmark, to the horizon 2020 research and innovation framework programme. in addition to joining the programme, it was agreed that researchers and engineers would visit each other and hold joint symposia. i trust that both parties can make the most of this cooperation.
in writing. ‒ as a member of the fidesz-kdnp delegation, i voted in favour of associating the faroe islands, which belong to the kingdom of denmark, to the horizon 2020 research and innovation framework programme. in addition to joining the programme, it was agreed that researchers and engineers would visit each other and hold joint symposia. i trust that both parties can make the most of this cooperation.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the draft council decision, as i consider cooperation to be of the utmost importance, given the effective participation of researchers from the faeroe islands in projects funded by the union and the importance of the ongoing scientific and technological cooperation between the faeroe islands and the union. in my view, both sides have a mutual interest in strengthening research and innovation in the context of the creation of the european research area. in my view, it is in our common interest to encourage mutual access between their research entities to research and development activities in the faeroe islands and to the union's framework programmes for research and technological development. in view of the special situation of the faroe islands, their small size and population, and their position as one of the union's close northern european neighbours, i considered that association with the framework programme, which was adopted today, was the most appropriate course to take.
in writing. ‒ as a member of the fidesz-kdnp delegation, i voted in favour of associating the faroe islands, which belong to the kingdom of denmark, to the horizon 2020 research and innovation framework programme. in addition to joining the programme, it was agreed that researchers and engineers would visit each other and hold joint symposia. i trust that both parties can make the most of this cooperation.
in writing. ‒ the referral is for the ratification of the agreement on scientific and technological cooperation between the european union and the faroe islands and on the association of the faroe islands to the framework programme for research and innovation 'horizon 2020' (2014-2020). as a believer in the widest possible international scientific and technological cooperation, i voted in favour of the draft.
in writing. ‒ the fidesz delegation of the epp, in agreement with the epp, is committed to improving the economic environment in the european union. the objective is to achieve cost-efficiency, reduce the administrative burden on operators in order to increase competitiveness. job creation is primarily the responsibility of companies and not governments, and this requires clear rules, but achieving transparency cannot mean increasing the operating costs of european economic organisations. it is essential to establish the framework conditions, both economic and legal, which enable and facilitate the stimulation of the economy and the creation of new jobs. this was the aim of the report adopted today, especially when the remuneration policy and the long-term commitment of shareholders are at stake. however, i did not support the 'country-by-country' reporting in the report, as i do not believe that a reporting obligation similar to the oecd rules on the large enterprise tax avoidance exemption (beps) has a place in sectoral legislation similar to this directive.
in writing. the fidesz epp delegation, in agreement with the epp, is committed to improving the economic environment in the european union. the objective is to achieve cost-efficiency, reduce the administrative burden on operators in order to increase competitiveness. job creation is primarily a business task, not a government one, and this requires clear rules, but achieving transparency cannot mean increasing the operating costs of european economic organisations. it is essential to establish a framework, both economic and legal, which enables and promotes economic recovery and job creation. this was the aim of the report adopted today, especially when the remuneration policy and the long-term commitment of shareholders are at stake. however, i did not support the so-called country-by-country reporting in the report, as i do not believe that a reporting obligation similar to the oecd rules on the large enterprise tax avoidance exemption (beps) has a place in sectoral legislation similar to this directive.
in writing. ‒ the fidesz delegation of the epp, in agreement with the epp, is committed to improving the economic environment in the european union. the objective is to achieve cost-efficiency, reduce the administrative burden on operators in order to increase competitiveness. job creation is primarily the responsibility of companies and not governments, and this requires clear rules, but achieving transparency cannot mean increasing the operating costs of european economic organisations. it is essential to establish the framework conditions, both economic and legal, which enable and facilitate the stimulation of the economy and the creation of new jobs. this was the aim of the report adopted today, especially when the remuneration policy and the long-term commitment of shareholders are at stake. however, i did not support the 'country-by-country' reporting in the report, as i do not believe that a reporting obligation similar to the oecd rules on the large enterprise tax avoidance exemption (beps) has a place in sectoral legislation similar to this directive.
in writing. ‒ the fidesz delegation of the epp, in agreement with the epp, is committed to improving the economic environment in the european union. the objective is to achieve cost-efficiency, reduce the administrative burden on operators in order to increase competitiveness. it is essential to establish the framework conditions, both economic and legal, which enable and facilitate the stimulation of the economy and the creation of new jobs. this was the aim of the report adopted today, especially when the remuneration policy and the long-term commitment of shareholders are at stake. however, i did not support the 'country-by-country' reporting in the report, as i do not believe that a reporting obligation similar to the oecd's rules on the large enterprise tax avoidance exemption (beps) has a place in sectoral legislation similar to this directive.
in writing. ‒ the fidesz delegation of the epp, in agreement with the epp, is committed to improving the economic environment in the european union. the objective is to achieve cost-efficiency, reduce the administrative burden on operators in order to increase competitiveness. job creation is primarily the responsibility of companies and not governments, and this requires clear rules, but achieving transparency cannot mean increasing the operating costs of european economic organisations. it is essential to establish the framework conditions, both economic and legal, which enable and facilitate the stimulation of the economy and the creation of new jobs. this was the aim of the report adopted today, especially when the remuneration policy and the long-term commitment of shareholders are at stake. however, i did not support the 'country-by-country' reporting in the report, as i do not believe that a reporting obligation similar to the oecd's rules on the large enterprise tax avoidance exemption (beps) has a place in sectoral legislation similar to this directive.
in writing. ‒ the fidesz delegation of the epp, in agreement with the epp, is committed to improving the economic environment in the european union. the objective is to achieve cost-efficiency, reduce the administrative burden on operators in order to increase competitiveness. job creation is primarily the responsibility of companies and not governments, and this requires clear rules, but achieving transparency cannot mean increasing the operating costs of european economic organisations. it is essential to establish the framework conditions, both economic and legal, which enable and facilitate the stimulation of the economy and the creation of new jobs. this was the aim of the report adopted today, especially when the remuneration policy and the long-term commitment of shareholders are at stake. however, i did not support the so-called country-by-country reporting in the report, as i do not believe that a reporting obligation similar to the oecd rules on the large enterprise tax avoidance exemption (beps) has a place in sectoral legislation similar to this directive.
in writing. ‒ the hungarian people's party delegation, in agreement with the european people's party, stands for the development of the european union's economic environment. the objective is to achieve cost-efficiency, reduce the administrative burden on operators in order to increase competitiveness. job creation is primarily the responsibility of companies, not governments. that requires clear rules. however, achieving transparency should not mean increasing the operating costs of european economic operators. it is essential to establish a framework, both economic and legal, which enables and promotes economic recovery and the creation of new jobs. that was the aim of the report adopted today. however, i did not support the country-by-country reporting in the text. in my view, a reporting obligation similar to the oecd's rules on the exemption for large enterprises from tax avoidance (beps) has no place in sectoral legislation similar to this directive.
in writing. ‒ the fidesz delegation of the epp, in agreement with the epp, is committed to improving the economic environment in the european union. the objective is to achieve cost-efficiency, reduce the administrative burden on operators in order to increase competitiveness. job creation is primarily the responsibility of companies and not governments, and this requires clear rules, but achieving transparency cannot mean increasing the operating costs of european economic organisations. it is essential to establish the framework conditions, both economic and legal, which enable and facilitate the stimulation of the economy and the creation of new jobs. this was the aim of the report adopted today, especially when the remuneration policy and the long-term commitment of shareholders are at stake.
in writing. ‒ the commission has proposed to amend certain elements of directives 2007/36/ec and 2013/34/eu. this will be possible with the adoption of a directive by the european parliament and the council. the referral concerns the content of this directive.
in writing. ‒ the fidesz delegation of the epp, in agreement with the epp, is committed to improving the economic environment in the european union. the objective is to achieve cost-efficiency, reduce the administrative burden on operators in order to increase competitiveness. job creation is primarily the responsibility of companies and not governments, and this requires clear rules, but achieving transparency cannot mean increasing the operating costs of european economic organisations. it is essential to establish the framework conditions, both economic and legal, which enable and facilitate the stimulation of the economy and the creation of new jobs. this was the aim of the report adopted today, especially when the remuneration policy and the long-term commitment of shareholders are at stake. however, i did not support the so-called country-by-country reporting in the report, as i do not believe that a reporting obligation similar to the oecd's rules on the large enterprise tax avoidance exemption (beps) has a place in sectoral legislation similar to this directive.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the amendment of directive 2007/36/ec to encourage long-term shareholder engagement and directive 2013/34/eu as regards certain elements of the corporate governance statement. these are fundamental principles that encourage shareholders to be more involved and interested in long-term planning rather than short-term planning, which often leads to serious damage and underfunding. it is appropriate that, in order to facilitate this, the directive requires greater transparency as regards the identity of shareholders, since direct contact and closer cooperation can only be achieved by identifying shareholders. i welcome the addition of an additional disclosure requirement that large companies should disclose in the notes to the financial statements the relevant information on the tax assessment, broken down by member state and third country where these large companies have a subsidiary. the amendment also contributes to sustainability by requiring issuers to publish additional data pertaining to the financial year (such as turnover, profit before tax, tax on profit or public subsidies received) on an annual basis, on a country-by-country basis, on an aggregated basis. the inclusion of this in the report is one of the most important achievements of the socialists. the amendments to strengthen the exercise of rights attaching to shares will certainly have a positive impact on the capital investment regime within the union.
in writing. ‒ it is important that the eu ets promotes low-carbon growth and protects the competitiveness of eu sectors that are at significant risk of carbon leakage. the european council conclusions on the 2030 climate and energy framework provided clear guidance that the free allocation and cap-and-trade provisions should be maintained beyond 2020. on the basis of those strategic guidelines, the commission should review directive 2003/87/ec, and in particular article 10a thereof, and propose a revision of that directive within six months of the adoption of this decision. in order to ensure a level playing field, the review will also examine the harmonised rules for compensating indirect costs at union level. the review should also consider the appropriateness of using up to 50 million unallocated allowances before 2021 to complement existing resources to promote projects referred to in article 10a (8) of that directive and low-carbon industrial innovation projects, including smaller scale projects, across all member states. in view of the above, i voted in favour of the adoption of the report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report, as i consider the importance of a well-functioning and stable eu ets to be key. i welcome the effort to achieve the objective of the scheme, which is to encourage cost-effective and economically viable reductions in greenhouse gas emissions. the report adopted today also aims at achieving stability and sustainable emissions trading. i consider it of paramount importance to address the excess emissions and to address the deficiencies in the system in order to achieve the target of reducing greenhouse gas emissions by 2020 and to achieve long-term cost-effectiveness. furthermore, i agree with the rapporteur that there is an urgent need for further discussion on improving the allocation of free allowances so that the most efficient installations do not have to bear unjustified carbon costs, as this would lead to emissions trading.
in writing. ‒ the ets has generated an estimated surplus of more than 2 billion emission allowances since 2009. this surplus is reflected in the supply of emission allowances, thereby reducing the price of carbon emissions, which in turn constrains investment in low-carbon technologies. the european parliament called on the commission back in 2012 to adopt measures to correct the shortcomings of the ets. the commission's 2014 proposal to create a market stabilisation reserve is a structural reform that complements the emissions trading system directive with new rules to control market fluctuations and in particular the supply of allowances. i support this reform.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report because i think that the creation of a reserve is a good solution. as we know, the purpose of emissions trading is to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. however, the supply-demand balance of emission allowances has been upset, and this is now hampering green investment. power plants, airlines, companies are free to trade in emission quotas, which determine how much pollutants can be released into the air. quotas are currently very cheap as demand has decreased, partly due to the economic crisis. however, there was no movement on the supply side. in 2013, there was a surplus of more than 2 billion on the quota market compared to current emissions, which could exceed 2.6 billion by 2020. a quota is one ton of carbon dioxide. the surplus reduces the willingness to invest green and may thus also jeopardise the effectiveness of the ets. in my view, this move sends a strong message to the eu's climate policy, which is also of great importance in view of the upcoming paris climate summit. i believe that a stable and flexible system is needed to create a more predictable situation for the member states and the market. i would point out that in developing the stability reserve, it is important to encourage further investment and to ensure consistency with other climate and energy policies.
in writing. ‒ the european commission's proposal aims to improve working conditions for seafarers on board ships flying the flag of one of the 28 member states of the european union, including taking account of the specificities of the sector. the proposal was designed to harmonise the six directives on employment and social dialogue which had not previously covered seafarers. the directives on the insolvency of employers, the european works council, the reduction of the number of employees in a group and the protection of workers' rights in the event of the transfer of undertakings have thus been revised. the ep amendments concern mainly the area of social dialogue and cooperation. the amendments adopted may be important for me and for hungarian citizens working abroad, on the high seas, despite the fact that the regulations have no significant direct, territorial impact on hungary. the people's party approach was particularly important for us in the following areas and policy areas: disproportionate costs, administrative or legal restrictions that would impede the creation and development of small and medium-sized enterprises and family businesses should not be supported; seafarers should not be discriminated against on the basis of their eu citizenship; and the security of on-board communication devices should be increased.
in writing. the european commission's proposal aims to improve working conditions for seafarers on board ships flying the flag of one of the 28 member states of the european union, including taking account of the specificities of the sector. the proposal was designed to harmonise the six directives on employment and social dialogue which had not previously covered seafarers. the directives on insolvency of employers, on the european works council, on group redundancies and on the protection of workers' rights in the event of transfers of undertakings have thus been revised. the ep amendments concern mainly the area of social dialogue and cooperation with regard to the working conditions and safety of seafarers. i followed the people's party's position because the report managed to incorporate amendments that may be important for me and for hungarian citizens working abroad, even though the regulations have no significant direct, territorial impact on hungary. the people's party approach was particularly important for us in the following areas and policy areas: disproportionate costs, administrative or legal restrictions that would impede the creation and development of small and medium-sized enterprises and family businesses should not be supported; seafarers should not be discriminated against on the basis of their eu nationality; and the security of on-board communication devices should be increased.
in writing. ‒ the european commission's proposal aims to improve working conditions for seafarers on board ships flying the flag of one of the 28 member states of the european union, including by taking account of the specificities of the sector. the proposal was designed to harmonise the six directives on employment and social dialogue which had not previously covered seafarers. the directives on the insolvency of employers, the european works council, the reduction of the number of employees in a group and the protection of workers' rights in the event of the transfer of undertakings have thus been revised. the ep amendments concern mainly the area of social dialogue and cooperation with regard to the working conditions and safety of seafarers. i followed the people's party's position because the report managed to incorporate amendments that may be important for me and for hungarian citizens working abroad, even though the regulations have no significant direct, territorial impact on hungary. the people's party approach was particularly important to us in the following areas and in matters of principle: disproportionate costs, administrative or legal restrictions that would impede the creation and development of small and medium-sized enterprises and family businesses should not be supported; seafarers should not be discriminated against on the basis of their eu citizenship; the security of on-board means of communication should also be improved.
in writing. ‒ the european commission's proposal aims to improve working conditions for seafarers on board ships flying the flag of one of the 28 member states of the european union, including by taking account of the specificities of the sector. the proposal was designed to harmonise the six directives on employment and social dialogue which had not previously covered seafarers. the directives on the insolvency of employers, the european works council, the reduction of the number of employees in a group and the protection of workers' rights in the event of the transfer of undertakings have thus been revised. the amendments concern mainly the area of social dialogue and cooperation with regard to the working conditions and safety of seafarers. i followed the people's party's position because the report managed to incorporate amendments that may be important for me and for hungarian citizens working abroad, even though the regulations have no significant direct, territorial impact on hungary. the people's party approach was particularly important to us in the following areas and in matters of principle: disproportionate costs, administrative or legal restrictions that would impede the creation and development of small and medium-sized enterprises and family businesses should not be supported; seafarers should not be discriminated against on the basis of their eu citizenship; the security of on-board means of communication should also be improved.
in writing. ‒ the european commission's proposal aims to improve working conditions for seafarers on board ships flying the flag of one of the 28 member states of the european union, including by taking account of the specificities of the sector. the proposal was designed to harmonise the six directives on employment and social dialogue which had not previously covered seafarers. the directives on the insolvency of employers, the european works council, the reduction of the number of employees in a group and the protection of workers' rights in the event of the transfer of undertakings have thus been revised. the ep amendments concern mainly the area of social dialogue and cooperation with regard to the working conditions and safety of seafarers. i followed the people's party's position because the report managed to incorporate amendments that may be important for me and for hungarian citizens working abroad, even though the regulations have no significant direct, territorial impact on hungary. the people's party approach was particularly important to us in the following areas and in matters of principle: disproportionate costs, administrative or legal restrictions that would impede the creation and development of small and medium-sized enterprises and family businesses should not be supported; seafarers should not be discriminated against on the basis of their eu citizenship; the security of on-board means of communication should also be improved.
in writing. ‒ the european commission's proposal aims to improve working conditions for seafarers on board ships flying the flag of one of the 28 member states of the european union, including taking account of the specificities of the sector. the proposal was designed to harmonise the six directives on employment and social dialogue which had not previously covered seafarers. the directives on insolvency of employers, on the european works council, on group redundancies and on the protection of workers' rights in the event of transfers of undertakings have thus been revised. the ep amendments concern mainly the area of social dialogue and cooperation with regard to the working conditions and safety of seafarers. i followed the people's party's position because the report managed to incorporate amendments that may be important for me and for hungarian citizens working abroad, even though the regulations have no significant direct, territorial impact on hungary. the people's party approach was particularly important for us in the following areas and policy areas: disproportionate costs, administrative or legal restrictions that would impede the creation and development of small and medium-sized enterprises and family businesses should not be supported; seafarers should not be discriminated against on the basis of their eu nationality; and the security of on-board communication devices should be increased.
in writing. ‒ the european commission's proposal aims to improve working conditions for seafarers on board ships flying the flag of one of the 28 member states of the european union, including by taking account of the specificities of the sector. the proposal was designed to harmonise the six directives on employment and social dialogue which had not previously covered seafarers. the directives on the insolvency of employers, the european works council, the reduction of the number of employees in a group and the protection of workers' rights in the event of the transfer of undertakings have thus been revised. the ep amendments concern mainly the area of social dialogue and cooperation with regard to the working conditions and safety of seafarers. i followed the people's party's position because the report managed to incorporate amendments that may be important for me and for hungarian citizens working abroad, even though the regulations have no significant direct, territorial impact on hungary. the people's party approach was particularly important to us in the following areas and in matters of principle: disproportionate costs, administrative or legal restrictions that would impede the creation and development of small and medium-sized enterprises and family businesses should not be supported; seafarers should not be discriminated against on the basis of their eu citizenship; the security of on-board means of communication should also be improved.
in writing. ‒ the european commission's proposal for a directive is a revision of five previously adopted directives that excluded seafarers from their scope. the proposal aims to improve the working conditions of seafarers on board ships flying the flag of one of the 28 member states of the european union, while taking account of the specificities of the sector. the recent agreement reached by the main social partners at european level will make it possible to eliminate discrimination against seafarers and unfair competition between member states, and strike a balance between increasing the protection of workers and safeguarding the competitiveness of the maritime sector, one of the future challenges for the european union. i voted for the motion.
in writing. ‒ the european commission's proposal aims to improve working conditions for seafarers on board ships flying the flag of one of the 28 member states of the european union, including by taking account of the specificities of the sector. the proposal was designed to harmonise the six directives on employment and social dialogue which had not previously covered seafarers. the directives on the insolvency of employers, the european works council, the reduction of the number of employees in a group and the protection of workers' rights in the event of the transfer of undertakings have thus been revised. the ep amendments concern mainly the area of social dialogue and cooperation with regard to the working conditions and safety of seafarers. i followed the people's party's position because the report managed to incorporate amendments that may be important for me and for hungarian citizens working abroad, even though the regulations have no significant direct, territorial impact on hungary. the people's party approach was particularly important to us in the following areas and in matters of principle: disproportionate costs, administrative or legal restrictions that would impede the creation and development of small and medium-sized enterprises and family businesses should not be supported; seafarers should not be discriminated against on the basis of their eu citizenship; the security of on-board means of communication should also be improved.
in writing. ‒ the european union, euratom and switzerland all place a high value on scientific and technological research. they therefore have a common interest in working together to make better use of resources and to avoid duplication of work. the negotiated agreement lays down the terms and conditions for swiss participation in the implementation of pillar i of horizon 2020 and in actions under the specific objective 'spreading excellence and increasing participation', in the activities of the euratom programme 2014-2018 and in the activities of the fusion energy development and iter european joint undertaking 2014-2020. as a member of the fidesz-kdnp delegation, i voted in favour of the conclusion of the agreement; i believe that the close relationship between switzerland, the european union and euratom offers advantages to all parties.
in writing. the european union, euratom and switzerland both place a high value on scientific and technological research. they therefore have a common interest in working together to make better use of resources and to avoid duplication of work. the negotiated agreement lays down the terms and conditions for swiss participation in the implementation of pillar i of horizon 2020 and in actions under the specific objective 'spreading excellence and increasing participation', in the activities of the euratom programme 2014-2018 and in the activities of the fusion energy development and iter european joint undertaking 2014-2020. as a member of the fidesz-kdnp delegation, i voted in favour of the conclusion of the agreement; i believe that the close relationship between switzerland, the european union and euratom offers advantages to all parties.
in writing. ‒ the european union, euratom and switzerland all place a high value on scientific and technological research. they therefore have a common interest in working together to make better use of resources and to avoid duplication of work. the negotiated agreement lays down the terms and conditions for swiss participation in the implementation of pillar i of horizon 2020 and in actions under the specific objective 'spreading excellence and increasing participation', in the activities of the euratom programme 2014-2018 and in the activities of the fusion energy development and iter european joint undertaking 2014-2020. as a member of the fidesz-kdnp delegation, i voted in favour of the conclusion of the agreement; i believe that the close relationship between switzerland, the european union and euratom offers advantages to all parties.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of concluding the association of the swiss confederation to the framework programme for research and innovation 'horizon 2020' and the european atomic energy community to the research and training programme complementary to the framework programme for research and innovation 'horizon 2020', in line with the european people's party line. i also support the conclusion of the agreement for scientific and technological cooperation between the european union and the european atomic energy community, of the one part, and the swiss confederation, of the other part, on the regulation of swiss participation in the iter activities of fusion for energy. i consider it important to emphasise that the activities of the joint undertaking include, inter alia, the supervision of the preparation of the site designated for the iter project, the provision of material, financial and human resources to the iter organisation, the coordination of scientific and technological research and development activities in the field of fusion, and liaison with the iter organisation.
in writing. ‒ the european union, euratom and switzerland all place a high value on scientific and technological research. they therefore have a common interest in working together to make better use of resources and to avoid duplication of work. the negotiated agreement lays down the terms and conditions for swiss participation in the implementation of pillar i of horizon 2020 and in actions under the specific objective 'spreading excellence and increasing participation', in the activities of the euratom programme 2014-2018 and in the activities of the fusion energy development and iter european joint undertaking 2014-2020. as a member of the fidesz-kdnp delegation, i voted in favour of the conclusion of the agreement; i believe that the close relationship between switzerland, the european union and euratom offers advantages to all parties.
in writing. ‒ the referral is for the ratification of the agreement for scientific and technological cooperation between the european union and the european atomic energy community, of the one part, and the swiss confederation, of the other part, on the association of the swiss confederation to horizon 2020 - the framework programme for research and innovation and the research and training programme of the european atomic energy community, complementing horizon 2020, and on the regulation of the participation of the swiss confederation in iter activities carried out by fusion for energy. as a believer in the widest possible international scientific and technological cooperation, i voted in favour of the draft.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution because i consider scientific, research and innovation cooperation between the eu and eea countries to be important. the comprehensive agreement, which also concerns the framework programme for research and innovation 'horizon 2020' and the research and training programme of the european atomic energy community complementing the framework programme for research and innovation 'horizon 2020', was preceded by a long preparatory phase. as an alternate member of the delegation to the eu/iceland joint parliamentary committee and the eea joint parliamentary committee responsible for relations with switzerland and norway, i consider agreements of this type to be particularly important, as they allow us to achieve more effective cooperation.
mr president, with the successful delegation of our colleague, mr deva, who is also present in this room, we went to south korea a few weeks ago, where i was able to see for myself what the secret is of how a very poor, miserable country became one of the most successful nations and states in the world. they were following the same path that my country, hungary, should have followed after the so-called regime change instead of being made into a big assembly plant. in south korea, they focused on training, innovation, technology development, and manufacturing their own products that they could produce. i would call this a genuine employment policy, and to have an economy that is commensurate with the capabilities of each member state and creates jobs that correspond to those capabilities, for example in hungary.
in writing. ‒ each year, the european commission prepares and the european council (in the framework of epsco) discusses the so-called employment policy directives for the member states. since the public employment system was introduced in hungary, it has been continuously criticized by the european commission, although the legacy in this area is particularly serious. the latest analysis of the hungarian central statistical office (ksh), which operates according to european standards, in april 2015 found that the number of unemployed people increased by 150,000 between 2001 and 2011. at the same time, the most developed eu countries (e.g. denmark, luxembourg) have also experienced a dramatic increase in the number of low-skilled unemployed, which needs to be addressed in the short term. this was also recognised by the european parliament in its report. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work. hungary is now at the forefront of europe in reducing unemployment, a fact that is increasingly recognised.
in writing. the latest analysis of the hungarian central statistical office (ksh) based on european standards, in april 2015, found that the number of unemployed people increased by 150,000 between 2001 and 2011. at the time of the 2010 change of government, hungary had the highest level of education, with almost 30% of the unemployed having completed primary school or less, which was about 170,000 people. around the time of accession to the eu, the situation of unskilled people worsened by almost 100 000 in 2001-2004, and then further from 2008-2009, with 98 000 unemployed in one year. a year later, between 2009 and 2010, another 93,000 people lost their jobs among people with low education. at the same time, the most developed eu countries (e.g. denmark, luxembourg) have also experienced a dramatic increase in the number of low-skilled unemployed people, which needs to be addressed in the short term, as recognised by the european parliament in this report. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work. hungary is now at the forefront of europe in reducing unemployment, a fact that is increasingly recognised. the amendment tabled by mr adam kos also drew attention to this, and the committee on employment and social affairs supported it, so i voted in favour of the final version of the report.
in writing. ‒ each year, the european commission prepares and the european council (in the framework of epsco) discusses the so-called employment policy directives for the member states. since the public employment system was introduced in hungary, it has been continuously criticized by the european commission, although the legacy in this area is particularly serious. the latest analysis of the hungarian central statistical office (ksh), which operates according to european standards, in april 2015 found that the number of unemployed people increased by 150,000 between 2001 and 2011. at the time of the 2010 change of government, hungary had the highest level of education, with almost 30% of the unemployed having completed primary school or less, which was about 170,000 people. around the time of accession to the eu, the situation of unskilled people worsened by almost 100 000 in 2001-2004, and then again from 2008-2009 when 98 000 people lost their jobs in one year. a year later, in 2009-2010, another 93,000 people lost their jobs among people with low education. hungary is now at the forefront of europe in reducing unemployment, a fact that is increasingly recognised. the amendment tabled by mr adam kos also drew attention to this, and the committee on employment and social affairs supported it, so i voted in favour of the final version of the report.
in writing. ‒ each year, the european commission prepares and the european council (in the framework of epsco) discusses the so-called employment policy directives for the member states. since the public employment system was introduced in hungary, it has been continuously criticized by the european commission, although the legacy in this area is particularly serious. the latest analysis of the hungarian central statistical office (ksh), which operates according to european standards, in april 2015 found that the number of unemployed people increased by 150,000 between 2001 and 2011. at the time of the 2010 change of government, hungary had the highest level of education, with almost 30% of the unemployed having completed primary school or less, which was about 170,000 people. around the time of accession to the eu, the number of unskilled people fell by almost 100,000, and then it continued to fall. at the same time, the number of low-skilled unemployed has increased dramatically in the most developed eu countries, and this needs to be addressed in the short term, as the european parliament has acknowledged in this report. they must be given work to increase the number of people in work and to improve the employment situation. hungary is now at the forefront of europe in reducing unemployment, a fact that is increasingly recognised. i voted in favour of the final version of the report.
in writing. ‒ each year, the european commission prepares and the european council (in the framework of epsco) discusses the so-called employment policy directives for the member states. since the public employment system was introduced in hungary, it has been continuously criticized by the european commission, although the legacy in this area is particularly serious. the latest analysis of the hungarian central statistical office (ksh), which operates according to european standards, in april 2015 found that the number of unemployed people increased by 150,000 between 2001 and 2011. at the same time, the most developed eu countries (e.g. denmark, luxembourg) have also experienced a dramatic increase in the number of low-skilled unemployed people, which needs to be addressed in the short term, as recognised by the european parliament in this report. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work. hungary is now at the forefront of europe in reducing unemployment, a fact that is increasingly recognised. the amendment tabled by mr adam kos also drew attention to this, and the committee on employment and social affairs supported it, so i voted in favour of the final version of the report.
in writing. ‒ the latest analysis of the hungarian central statistical office (ksh), which operates according to european standards, in april 2015 found that the number of unemployed increased by 150,000 between 2001 and 2011. at the time of the 2010 change of government, hungary had the highest level of education, with almost 30% of the unemployed having completed primary school or less, which was about 170,000 people. around the time of accession to the eu, i.e. 2001-2004, the situation of unskilled people worsened by almost 100 000 and then from 2008-2009 by 98 000 in one year. a year later, between 2009 and 2010, another 93,000 people lost their jobs among people with low education. at the same time, the most developed eu countries (e.g. denmark, luxembourg) have also experienced a dramatic increase in the number of low-skilled unemployed people, which needs to be addressed in the short term, as recognised by the european parliament in this report. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work. hungary is now at the forefront of europe in reducing unemployment, a fact that is increasingly recognised. the amendment tabled by adam kos was also drawn to attention, and was supported by the committee on employment and social affairs, so i voted in favour of the final version of the report.
in writing. ‒ each year, the european commission prepares and the european council (in the framework of epsco) discusses the so-called employment policy directives for the member states. since the public employment system was introduced in hungary, it has been continuously criticized by the european commission, although the legacy in this area is particularly serious. the latest analysis of the hungarian central statistical office (ksh), which operates according to european standards, in april 2015 found that the number of unemployed people increased by 150,000 between 2001 and 2011. at the time of the 2010 change of government, hungary had the highest level of education, with almost 30% of the unemployed having completed primary school or less, which was about 170,000 people. around the time of accession to the eu, the situation of unskilled people worsened by almost 100 000 in 2001-2004, and then again from 2008-2009 when 98 000 people lost their jobs in one year. a year later, in 2009-2010, another 93,000 people lost their jobs among people with low education. at the same time, the most developed eu countries (e.g. denmark, luxembourg) have also experienced a dramatic increase in the number of low-skilled unemployed people, which needs to be addressed in the short term, as recognised by the european parliament in this report.
in writing. ‒ the referral concerns the amendments which the european parliament intends to make to the commission proposal to the council for a decision on guidelines for the employment policies of the member states and which it approves. i supported the motion.
in writing. ‒ each year, the european commission prepares and the european council (in the framework of epsco) discusses the so-called employment policy directives for the member states. since the public employment system was introduced in hungary, it has been criticised by the european commission, although the legacy is particularly severe, and at the same time the number of low-skilled unemployed has increased dramatically in the most developed eu countries (e.g. denmark, luxembourg), which needs to be addressed in the short term, as the european parliament has acknowledged in this report. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work. hungary is now at the forefront of europe in reducing unemployment, a fact that is increasingly recognised. the amendment tabled by mr adam kos also drew attention to this, and the committee on employment and social affairs supported it, so i voted in favour of the final version of the report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report because it makes useful employment policy proposals to the european commission and the european council. the report stresses the need to coordinate training across sectors at eu level and to develop a common strategy. i agree that the union should accompany these efforts with policy proposals to achieve the objectives of the treaty and to ensure inclusive, integrated labour markets and fair working conditions including adequate remuneration through collective bargaining throughout the union. the report states that at least 20 million people need to be lifted out of poverty and exclusion. therefore, it seems necessary to establish reliable indicators of the conditions of extreme poverty experienced by many eu citizens even today. i think it's important to have these indicators, and i regret to say that the hungarian government, in the opposite direction, refuses to measure the indicators that reflect the situation of those living in poverty. i share the view that one of the eu's most important tasks is to create a fairer, more inclusive, rights-based labour market based on social protection. i also consider it important to note that, in order to combat extreme poverty and social exclusion, these actions should include social protection measures such as the guaranteed minimum income, to be introduced in accordance with national practices.
in writing. ‒ on 2 june 2015, the commission adopted a proposal for a decision to mobilise the european globalisation adjustment fund for finland to support the reintegration into the labour market of workers made redundant by broadcom and two suppliers or downstream companies. according to the finnish authorities, the reason for the redundancies at broadcom was that it was closing all its activities in finland. this closure is linked to the significant structural changes in the structure of world trade due to globalisation, recalling that in 2004 asia became the largest employer in the electronics and electricity sectors. this has led to a decrease in the number of european workers. as regards the domestic situation, the finnish authorities point to a trend in the finnish electronics sector as a whole, culminating in the mass redundancies announced by nokia in 2011. the commission considers that the measures described above constitute active labour market measures falling within the scope of the eligible activities. on the basis of the above, and in view of the interinstitutional agreement of 2 december 2015, i, as a member of the hungarian people's party delegation, supported the adoption of the proposal in agreement with the european people's party.
in writing. on 2 june 2015, the commission adopted a proposal for a decision to mobilise the european globalisation adjustment fund for finland to support the reintegration into the labour market of workers made redundant by broadcom and two suppliers or downstream companies. according to the finnish authorities, the reason for the redundancies at broadcom was that it was closing all its activities in finland. this closure is linked to the significant structural changes in the structure of world trade due to globalisation, recalling that in 2004 asia became the largest employer in the electronics and electricity sectors. this has led to a decrease in the number of european workers. as regards the domestic situation, the finnish authorities point to a trend in the finnish electronics sector as a whole, culminating in the mass redundancies announced by nokia in 2011. the personalised services to be provided to redundant workers consist of three types of measures: (i) helping them to find new jobs; (ii) helping them to start their own business and (iii) providing them with training or education. the commission considers that the measures described above constitute active labour market measures falling within the scope of the eligible activities. on the basis of the above, in view of the interinstitutional agreement of 2 december 2015, the hungarian people's party delegation supported the adoption of the proposal in agreement with the european people's party.
in writing. ‒ on 2 june 2015, the commission adopted a proposal for a decision to mobilise the european globalisation adjustment fund for finland to support the reintegration into the labour market of workers made redundant by broadcom and two suppliers or downstream companies. according to the finnish authorities, the reason for the redundancies at broadcom was that it was closing all its activities in finland. this closure is linked to the significant structural changes in the structure of world trade due to globalisation, recalling that in 2004 asia became the largest employer in the electronics and electricity sectors. this has led to a decrease in the number of european workers. as regards the domestic situation, the finnish authorities point to a trend in the finnish electronics sector as a whole, culminating in the mass redundancies announced by nokia in 2011. the personalised services to be provided to redundant workers consist of three types of measures: (i) helping them to find new jobs; (ii) helping them to start their own business and (iii) providing them with training or education. the commission considers that the measures described above constitute active labour market measures falling within the scope of the eligible activities. on the basis of the above, and in the light of the interinstitutional agreement of 2 december 2015, i voted in favour of the adoption of this proposal in accordance with the european people's party.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the commission's proposal for a decision to mobilise the european globalisation adjustment fund for the benefit of finland. it is crucial that this is the twelfth application to be examined under the 2015 budget and that it is directed to the mobilisation of a total of eur 1 365 000 from the egf for the benefit of finland. it affects 500 of the 568 workers made redundant by broadcom and two of its suppliers. it should be noted that according to the finnish authorities, the reason for the redundancies at broadcom was that it was closing all its activities in finland. this closure is linked to the significant structural changes in the structure of world trade due to globalisation, recalling that in the 2000s the finnish subsidiaries increased their staffing levels on all continents, while in 2004 asia became the largest employer in the electronics and electricity sectors. this has led to a decrease in the number of european workers. as regards the domestic situation, the finnish authorities point to a trend in the finnish electronics sector as a whole, culminating in the mass redundancies announced by nokia in 2011. the report adopted today was also intended to remedy this situation and to ensure sustainable operation.
in writing. ‒ the european globalisation adjustment fund aims to provide support for workers affected by the consequences of major structural changes in world trade or made redundant as a result of the global financial and economic crisis, and to support their reintegration into the labour market. finland submitted its application for a financial contribution from the egf following 568 redundancies at broadcom communications finland and two suppliers or downstream companies. as the application meets the eligibility criteria set out in the egf regulation, i supported the submission.
in writing. ‒ the european parliament today adopted by a large majority its mandate for the negotiations on the eu budget for 2016. in preparation for the negotiations with the council, meps confirmed that cohesion policy remains a priority for the european parliament. as a member of the hungarian people's party, i believe that the eu needs to quickly clear its multi-billion euro deficit on development projects, and the 2016 eu budget can be an important tool for this. as in previous years, the mandate for negotiations with the council focuses on cohesion policy and the preservation of the resources of the common agricultural policy. if the council decides to reduce these during the budgetary procedure, we are prepared to defend budget lines which are important for hungarian interests by submitting amendment proposals. on the basis of the above, and in view of the interinstitutional agreement of 2 december 2015, i, as a member of the hungarian people's party delegation, supported the adoption of the proposal in agreement with the european people's party.
in writing. ‒ the european parliament today adopted by a large majority its mandate for the negotiations on the eu budget for 2016. in preparation for the negotiations with the council, meps confirmed that cohesion policy remains a priority for the european parliament. the hungarian people's party meps believe that the eu should quickly clear its multi-billion euro deficit on development projects, and the 2016 eu budget could be an important tool for this. as in previous years, the mandate for negotiations with the council focuses on cohesion policy and the preservation of the resources of the common agricultural policy. if the council decides to reduce these during the budgetary procedure, we are prepared to defend budget lines which are important for hungarian interests by submitting amendment proposals. on the basis of the above, and in view of the interinstitutional agreement of 2 december 2015, the hungarian people's party delegation supported the adoption of the proposal in agreement with the european people's party.
in writing. the european parliament today adopted by a large majority its mandate for the negotiations on the eu budget for 2016. in preparation for the negotiations with the council, meps confirmed that cohesion policy remains a priority for the european parliament. the hungarian people's party meps believe that the eu should quickly clear its multi-billion euro deficit on development projects, and the 2016 eu budget could be an important tool for this. as in previous years, the mandate for negotiations with the council focuses on cohesion policy and the preservation of the resources of the common agricultural policy. if the council decides to reduce these during the budgetary procedure, we are prepared to defend budget lines which are important for hungarian interests by submitting amendment proposals. on the basis of the above, and in view of the interinstitutional agreement of 2 december 2015, the hungarian people's party delegation supported the adoption of the proposal in agreement with the european people's party.
in writing. ‒ the european parliament today adopted by a large majority its mandate for the negotiations on the eu budget for 2016. in preparation for the negotiations with the council, meps confirmed that cohesion policy remains a priority for the european parliament. the hungarian people's party meps believe that the eu should quickly clear its multi-billion euro deficit on development projects, and the 2016 eu budget could be an important tool for this. as in previous years, the mandate for negotiations with the council focuses on cohesion policy and the preservation of the resources of the common agricultural policy. if the council decides to reduce these during the budgetary procedure, we are prepared to defend budget lines which are important for hungarian interests by submitting amendment proposals. on the basis of the above, and in the light of the interinstitutional agreement of 2 december 2015, i voted in favour of the adoption of this proposal in accordance with the european people's party.
in writing. ‒ i supported the draft budget in line with the european people's party's line. i welcome the fact that the commission's draft general budget of the european union for the financial year 2016 reaffirms the priorities of creating decent and quality jobs for smart, sustainable and inclusive growth, developing enterprises and entrepreneurship and creating a secure europe. i also supported the proposal to increase eu support for investment, knowledge, job creation and growth-oriented programmes, in particular well-known mobility programmes such as erasmus+. i believe that the draft budget for 2016 is a welcome step towards helping member states to address structural challenges, in particular the deterioration of competitiveness. i am pleased that the commission is trying to meet the challenge of responding to new developments such as the crises in ukraine, syria and the mediterranean by responding to the needs of the eu and its member states in the areas of security and migration, and by showing strong political will in external action and in the area of cost recovery for countries of origin and transit.
in writing. ‒ the presentation proposes the position to be taken by the european parliament in the tripartite consultation (parliament, council, commission) on the 2016 budget of the union. i support the motion.
mr president, i am of course in favour of so-called green employment, the creation of green jobs, but i find it particularly cynical that the european union should initiate and enforce this, which has ruined agriculture in so many countries, including my own, hungary. recently, as i mentioned, i was at hortobagy, where i was able to see firsthand how direct subsidies, that is, land-based subsidies, how the manipulation of these subsidies destroys the ecological balance, how they destroy livestock, and how they further destroy agriculture, in addition to the destruction that the eu has already done by opening up our markets and sending food from the other side of the world to hungary and other european countries. under these circumstances, it may be considered cynical to talk about green employment.
in writing. ‒ the commission's green jobs initiative, which builds on the concept of the circular economy presented in the green action plan for smes (also included in this report) published last year, aims to create up to 20 million jobs in the green economy by 2020, including in health and so-called green jobs. one of the biggest challenges is that it is estimated that 95% of fresh produce in certain food chains will be threatened by climate change, and a third will be at serious risk. significant progress is also needed in the area of energy efficiency, as efforts are being made in the country to increase the energy efficiency of residential buildings, and further efforts are needed in the area of awareness raising, such as environmental education and training. this should include strengthening education in general, in particular to develop skills in science, technology and mathematics. i also support the approach of involving disadvantaged workers in the creation of such jobs. i supported the people's party's position on critical issues, in particular to reduce the burden on smes and thus on family businesses, and to ensure adequate and fair preparation time for the transition to a green economy.
in writing. ‒ the commission's green jobs initiative, which is also part of this report, is based on the concept of the circular economy presented in last year's report 'green action plan for smes', which aims to create up to 20 million jobs in the green economy by 2020, including in health and green jobs. one of the biggest challenges is that it is estimated that 95% of fresh produce in certain food chains, for example, will be threatened by climate change, and a third will be at serious risk. significant progress is also needed in the area of energy efficiency, as efforts are being made in the country to increase the energy efficiency of residential buildings, and further efforts are needed in the area of awareness raising, such as environmental education and training. this should include strengthening education in general, in particular to develop skills in science, technology and mathematics. i also support the approach of involving disadvantaged workers in the creation of such jobs. in line with the position of the fidesz-kdnp group, i supported the report, in particular in order to reduce the burden on smes and thus on family businesses, and to ensure adequate and fair preparation time for the transition to a green economy.
in writing. the commission's green jobs initiative, which builds on the circular economy concept of the green action plan for smes (also included in this report) published last year, aims to create up to 20 million jobs in the green economy by 2020, including in health and so-called green jobs. one of the biggest challenges is that it is estimated that 95% of fresh produce in certain food chains, for example, will be threatened by climate change, and a third will be at serious risk. significant progress is also needed in the area of energy efficiency, as efforts are being made in the country to increase the energy efficiency of residential buildings, and further efforts are needed in the area of awareness raising, such as environmental education and training. this should include strengthening education in general, in particular to develop skills in science, technology and mathematics. i also support the approach of involving disadvantaged workers in the creation of such jobs. i supported the people's party's position on critical issues, in particular to reduce the burden on smes and thus on family businesses, and to ensure adequate and fair preparation time for the transition to a green economy.
in writing. ‒ the commission's green jobs initiative, which builds on the concept of the circular economy presented in the green action plan for smes (also included in this report) published last year, aims to create up to 20 million jobs in the green economy by 2020, including in health and so-called green jobs. one of the biggest challenges is that, for example, it is estimated that 95% of fresh produce in certain food chains will be threatened by climate change, and one third will be at serious risk. significant progress is also needed in the area of energy efficiency, as efforts are being made in the country to increase the energy efficiency of residential buildings, and further efforts are needed in the area of awareness raising, such as environmental education and training. this should include strengthening education in general, in particular to develop skills in science, technology and mathematics. i also support the approach of involving disadvantaged workers in the creation of such jobs. i supported the people's party's position on critical issues, in particular to reduce the burden on smes and thus on family businesses, and to ensure adequate and fair preparation time for the transition to a green economy.
in writing. ‒ the commission's green jobs initiative, which builds on the concept of the circular economy presented in the green action plan for smes (also included in this report) published last year, aims to create up to 20 million jobs in the green economy by 2020, including in health and so-called green jobs. significant progress is also needed in the area of energy efficiency, as our country is making efforts to increase the energy efficiency of residential buildings. further efforts should be made in environmental education and training, in particular to develop skills in science, technology and mathematics. i supported the people's party's position on critical issues, in particular to reduce the burden on smes and thus on family businesses, and to ensure adequate and fair preparation time for the transition to a green economy.
in writing. ‒ the commission's green jobs initiative, which builds on the concept of the circular economy presented in the green action plan for smes (also included in this report) published last year, aims to create up to 20 million jobs in the green economy by 2020, including in health and so-called green jobs. one of the biggest challenges is that it is estimated that 95% of fresh produce in certain food chains, for example, will be threatened by climate change, and a third will be at serious risk. significant progress is also needed in the area of energy efficiency, as efforts are being made in the country to increase the energy efficiency of residential buildings, and further efforts are needed in the area of awareness raising, such as environmental education and training. this should include strengthening education in general, in particular to develop skills in science, technology and mathematics. i also support the approach of involving disadvantaged workers in the creation of such jobs. i supported the people's party's position on critical issues, in particular to reduce the burden on smes and thus on family businesses, and to ensure adequate and fair preparation time for the transition to a green economy.
in writing. ‒ the commission's green jobs initiative, which builds on the concept of the circular economy presented in the green action plan for smes (also included in this report) published last year, aims to create up to 20 million jobs in the green economy by 2020, including in health and so-called green jobs. one of the biggest challenges is that it is estimated that 95% of fresh produce in certain food chains, for example, will be threatened by climate change, and a third will be at serious risk. significant progress is also needed in the area of energy efficiency, as efforts are being made in the country to increase the energy efficiency of residential buildings, and further efforts are needed in the area of awareness raising, such as environmental education and training. this should include strengthening education in general, in particular to develop skills in science, technology and mathematics. i also support the approach of involving disadvantaged workers in the creation of such jobs. i supported the people's party's position on critical issues, in particular to reduce the burden on smes and thus on family businesses, and to ensure adequate and fair preparation time for the transition to a green economy.
in writing. ‒ the commission's green jobs initiative, which builds on the concept of the circular economy presented in the green action plan for smes (also included in this report) published last year, aims to create up to 20 million jobs in the green economy by 2020, including in health and so-called green jobs. one of the biggest challenges is that it is estimated that 95% of fresh produce in certain food chains, for example, will be threatened by climate change, and a third will be at serious risk. significant progress is also needed in the area of energy efficiency, as efforts are being made in the country to increase the energy efficiency of residential buildings, and further efforts are needed in the area of awareness raising, such as environmental education and training. this should include strengthening education in general, in particular to develop skills in science, technology and mathematics. i also support the approach of involving disadvantaged workers in the creation of such jobs. i supported the people's party's position on critical issues, in particular to reduce the burden on smes and thus on family businesses, and to ensure adequate and fair preparation time for the transition to a green economy.
in writing. ‒ the commission estimated in 2012 that up to 20 million jobs could be created in the green economy within the union by 2020. these are decent jobs that reduce the use of energy and raw materials; limit greenhouse gas emissions; minimise waste and pollution; protect and restore ecosystems. this requires the development of a coherent, comprehensive policy framework that provides a predictable training and investment environment. the report shall take into account the conditions and possibilities for this. i consider the issue raised by the report to be extremely important and have therefore supported it.
in writing. ‒ the commission's green jobs initiative, which builds on the concept of the circular economy in the green action plan for smes (also included in this report) published last year, aims to create up to 20 million jobs in the green economy by 2020, including in health and green jobs. significant progress is also needed in the area of energy efficiency, as efforts are being made in the country to increase the energy efficiency of residential buildings, and further efforts are needed in the area of awareness raising, such as environmental education and training. this should include strengthening education in general, in particular to develop skills in science, technology and mathematics. i also support the approach of involving disadvantaged workers in the creation of such jobs. i supported the people's party's position on critical issues, in particular to reduce the burden on smes and thus on family businesses, and to ensure adequate and fair preparation time for the transition to a green economy.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report because it makes useful suggestions for improving employment while taking account of global environmental challenges. i agree that the inefficient use of resources, the unsustainable pressure on the environment and climate change are reaching a level beyond which the irreversible impacts on our society and the natural environment cannot be prevented, and that increasing social exclusion and inequality is a challenge for societies. i believe that a significant part of the potential for sustainable job creation in the green and inclusive transition remains untapped, and the extent of this varies significantly from one member state to another. i agree that investments in renewable energy and energy efficiency will create a large number of jobs and will help to maintain the competitiveness of the european economy and industry and reduce europe's energy dependency. the proposal calls on member states to commit to a just transition timetable and to set ambitious environmental targets. this is done by ensuring adequate social protection and pay; healthy and safe working conditions; targeted investment in education, training and skills development programmes; respect for labour rights and the strengthening of workers' right to information, consultation and participation. i believe that the hungarian government is currently failing to meet almost any of these criteria, so i would recommend the recommendations of the report as a suitable recipe.
mr. president, i supported this report, but i would have supported it even more if they had changed the name, the title a little bit. it was titled in my native hungarian: "report on tax evasion and tax avoidance as a challenge to governance, social protection and development in developing countries". i would be very pleased if we could vote on a report next time on the same subject in the european union. moreover, because the commission, one of the main institutions of the european union, is headed by none other than mr juncker, the world's leading tax-avoidance master, i do not believe that the european union has the legal basis to educate developing countries, the so-called developing countries, on this issue. not to mention that - of course - the diversion of revenues to offshore locations is a very common practice in europe that should be addressed here.
in writing. ‒ the report raised questions and gave proposed answers to them which i believe require our particular attention. it examined the problems and their consequences in the context of the current system. administrative barriers, economic barriers, negative competition can all have negative long-term consequences. it is crucial to highlight that illicit money flows, i.e. unrecorded private money flows involving capital that has been illegally raised, transferred or used, have increased significantly. in 2011, developing countries lost more than usd 630 billion in domestic resources due to illicit money flows, representing 4.3% of developing countries' gdp. unfortunately, this particularly affects developing countries, as they are heavily dependent on corporate taxation, with a significant proportion of their national income coming from corporate tax revenues. i welcome the call to strengthen financial support and technical assistance to developing countries and regional tax administration frameworks. i also believe that in the fight against tax avoidance, solid solutions and an action plan are needed to increase transparency and cooperation.
in writing. ‒ in developing countries, domestic sources are the main source of finance. in these countries, the average tax rate to gdp is between 10% and 20% and in many countries it is below 15%, whereas in oecd countries it is between 30% and 40%. efficient mobilisation of domestic resources and strengthening of tax systems are essential to achieving development goals that allow the long-term overcoming of dependence on foreign aid. efficient and equitable tax systems are also crucial for poverty eradication, the fight against inequalities, good governance and state-building. the report therefore calls on the commission to put forward an action plan to support developing countries in the fight against tax fraud and tax evasion and in the establishment of fair, balanced and transparent tax systems. it also urges concrete and effective measures to support developing countries and regional tax administration frameworks in the fight against tax fraud and tax evasion and in the development of fair, balanced, efficient and transparent tax policies. i agree with the findings and recommendations of the report.
in writing. ‒ the report aims to identify targets to be met in the fight against tax evasion and money laundering in developing countries in the run-up to the third financing for development conference in addis ababa in july 2015. the report calls for greater transparency and efficiency in national and international tax systems. the european parliament calls on the commission to draw up an ambitious action plan to achieve these objectives. i agree with the above objectives and, in line with the position of the ppe group, i voted in favour of the adoption of the report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on tax evasion and tax avoidance as a challenge to governance, social protection and development in developing countries. the fight against tax fraud and tax evasion is also a major challenge in the european union. the report detailed the significant political, administrative and technical barriers faced by developing countries in raising tax revenues. in order to reverse this trend, i support the commission's proposal to present as soon as possible an action plan to support developing countries in their fight against tax evasion and avoidance and in the establishment of balanced and transparent tax systems. at the same time, i stress that we must give even greater priority to tackling the problem of tax avoidance, aggressive tax planning and tax evasion within the eu, setting an example for developing countries. failure to do so risks the union's credibility.
in writing. ‒ the pp group and the fidesz delegation welcome the commission's strategy in this important area, as the unsustainable use of resources causes both environmental damage and economic risks. it should be noted that the road we are on now leads to an ecological and economic dead end. humanity is already exceeding some of the limits of our planet's resilience, within which we must remain if we are to avoid reaching the tipping point that will lead to adverse ecological changes. improving resource efficiency would be beneficial both from an economic and a safety perspective. dependence on resources must be reduced. this requires a radical change of attitude. i welcome the legislative and economic incentives that are driving change. the report we're about to see today was about innovation and sustainable development.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution because i believe that we need to take immediate steps to achieve a circular economy. the material affects all the devices that generate waste today. the amount of this waste is unsustainable and we need to encourage green design, recycling, repair and ultimately zero waste. the european parliament wants us to use resources more efficiently, which will reduce our dependence on them and reduce material costs. improving resource efficiency means leaving behind the current linear economy, characterised by a take-make-consume-throw-away model of production and consumption. in a circular economy, virtually all non-renewable materials circulate in a closed cycle. an important element of the proposal is eco-design, which makes it easier to repair, reuse and refurbish products. other important elements are waste prevention measures; mandatory local, municipal and industrial targets until 2025; the polluter pays principle; higher recycling targets; minimising incineration and drastically reducing the amount of waste landfilled. hungary is in the last third of the eu-28 list for the latter value, which is in dire need of change. this package will not only save resources, i.e. money, in the long run, but it will also reduce the annual level of greenhouse gas emissions.
in writing. ‒ the epp group and fidesz delegation welcome the commission's strategy in this important area, as they propose, together with the rapporteur, to amend the legal basis of the regulation in line with the opinion adopted by the european parliament in 2010, by granting co-decision powers to the parliament. it is crucial that food safety is the ultimate objective of the european commission's proposal and that the regulation should reflect the changes in community law since the adoption of the maastricht treaty (1992). in my view, the most appropriate and rapid way of dealing with critical situations arising from a nuclear accident or other radioactive emergency is to use implementing acts. i also welcome the fact that the draft report also states that the european commission is obliged to report to parliament and the council on the measures adopted in the event of a nuclear accident or other radiological emergency.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report because i believe that a high level of human health protection should be ensured in the definition and implementation of all policy activities. i agree that the european union must have up-to-date legal instruments, including rapid and tailor-made decision-making procedures, to deal with situations such as those following the chernobyl or fukushima accidents. as is well known, after nuclear accidents, significant amounts of radioactive material are released into the atmosphere, which can contaminate food and feed to a significant degree from a health point of view, causing life-threatening diseases and health conditions. i therefore consider it important to have rules which allow certain agricultural products to be placed on the european market only if they comply with common provisions to protect public health. the report's finding that higher doses of radiation have a harmful and destructive effect on human cells and are carcinogenic should be emphasised. i therefore support the introduction of low limit values for the maximum permitted levels of radioactive contamination in foodstuffs exposed to such radiation, taking into account the cumulative dose resulting from long-term consumption.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the motion which highlights that investment in the real economy in europe has been declining over the past several decades, despite the huge growth of the european and global financial sector over the same period, and points out that the real economy remains heavily reliant on banks, which makes the economy vulnerable to the tightening of bank lending. i also welcome your observation that the large-scale state intervention since the start of the crisis, due to the failure of the financial sector, has resulted in abundant liquidity, but has not led to an increase in the demand for financing in the real economy. i agree with the rapporteur that restoring the stability of the banking system in the union has become a priority over long-term investment and financing of the real economy. i consider it important to call on the commission to undertake an in-depth country-specific analysis of the current situation in capital markets with a view to assessing, in the context of a comprehensive economic analysis, where and to what extent there are obstacles to investment at eu level through capital markets.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution on the establishment of a capital markets union. the proposal gives an excellent overview of the situation resulting from the malfunctioning of the capital market. it rightly stressed that although large-scale state intervention since the crisis has generated liquidity, this has not increased the demand for financing in the real economy. i think it is right that the proposal has given particular attention to the different economic and cultural composition of european smes in different member states. i agree with the call on the commission to encourage the most efficient possible distribution of savings, more investment opportunities, greater transparency and portfolio diversification for savers and investors by deepening and diversifying the sources of finance available to businesses. this is done by building on existing, well-developed european business finance structures. i particularly welcome the point in the motion which stresses the importance of widening access to financial education, especially for small investors and smes, to strengthen their confidence in capital markets and to understand the advantages and disadvantages of capital market investments.
mr president, i did not support the report on the european security strategy not because i do not want to see europe secure, but precisely because i do. what happened during and after the debate was outrageous, because it was an attempt to convince the citizens of europe, who were obviously worried, that the european union would do everything in its power to protect the eu's external borders, to protect citizens from the threat of terrorism and cross-border crime. i asked him if there was no obstacle to hungary, as a sovereign state, deciding to protect the currently vulnerable serbian-hungarian external schengen border with a fence, and what was the commissioner's opinion on this, and what was the eu's opinion on this. he refused to answer, but i go home, i open the newspaper, and there is the continuous insult to my country by mrs. merkel, by the eu and the rest, why we want to build a fence. to meet this particular security strategy and to protect europe from the threats posed by crime. for this, among other things. and that doesn't mean that we shouldn't... (interruption of the debate)
in writing. ‒ the epp group and the fidesz delegation welcome the commission's strategy in this important area, but we believe that the european parliament's response and recommendations are not sufficient and adequate to adequately assist the eu and its member states in the fight against organised crime and terrorism. the eu needs guidelines, measures, resources, expertise and action. we need to talk seriously and concretely about how to protect our children from violence, how to stop the radicalisation of young people, how to improve the exchange of information in law enforcement, how to prevent human trafficking and ensure adequate funding for law enforcement agencies. unfortunately, the decision of the parliament is not balanced enough. in the field of law enforcement, the protection of fundamental rights and data protection are of paramount importance. however, it is not enough to focus on these alone to develop an appropriate, clear and coherent security strategy and protect our citizens. for all these reasons, i could not support this resolution in its present form, and i abstained from the final vote.
in writing. ‒ the epp group and the fidesz delegation welcome the commission's strategy in this important area, but we believe that the european parliament's response and recommendations are not sufficient and adequate to adequately assist the eu and its member states in the fight against organised crime and terrorism. the eu needs guidelines, measures, resources, expertise and action. we need to talk seriously and concretely about how to protect our children from violence, how to stop the radicalisation of young people, how to improve the exchange of information in law enforcement, how to prevent human trafficking and ensure adequate funding for law enforcement agencies. unfortunately, the parliament's resolution is not balanced enough. in the field of law enforcement, the protection of fundamental rights and data protection are of paramount importance. however, it is not enough to focus on these alone to develop an appropriate, clear and coherent security strategy and protect our citizens. for all these reasons, i could not support this resolution in its present form and abstained from the final vote.
in writing. the pp group and the fidesz delegation welcome the commission's strategy in this important area, but we believe that the european parliament's response and recommendations are not sufficient and adequate to adequately assist the eu and its member states in the fight against organised crime and terrorism. the eu needs guidelines, measures, resources, expertise and action. we need to talk seriously and concretely about how to protect our children from violence, how to stop the radicalisation of young people, how to improve the exchange of information in law enforcement, how to prevent human trafficking and ensure adequate funding for law enforcement agencies. unfortunately, the decision of the parliament is not balanced enough. in the field of law enforcement, the protection of fundamental rights and data protection are of paramount importance. however, it is not enough to focus on these alone to develop an appropriate, clear and coherent security strategy and protect our citizens. for all these reasons, i could not support this resolution in its present form, and i abstained from the final vote.
in writing. ‒ the pp group and the fidesz delegation welcome the commission's strategy in this important area, but we believe that the european parliament's response and recommendations are not sufficient and adequate to adequately assist the eu and its member states in the fight against organised crime and terrorism. the eu needs guidelines, measures, resources, expertise and action. we need to talk seriously and concretely about how to protect our children from violence, how to stop the radicalisation of young people, how to improve the exchange of information in law enforcement, how to prevent human trafficking and ensure adequate funding for law enforcement agencies. unfortunately, the parliament's resolution is not balanced enough. in the field of law enforcement, the protection of fundamental rights and data protection are of paramount importance. however, it is not enough to focus on these alone to develop an appropriate, clear and coherent security strategy and protect our citizens. for all these reasons, i could not support this resolution in its present form and abstained from the final vote.
in writing. ‒ the pp group and the fidesz delegation welcome the commission's strategy in this important area, but we believe that the european parliament's response and recommendations are not sufficient and adequate to adequately assist the eu and its member states in the fight against organised crime and terrorism. the eu needs guidelines, measures, resources, expertise and action. we need to talk seriously and concretely about how to protect our children from violence, how to stop the radicalisation of young people, how to improve the exchange of information in law enforcement, how to prevent human trafficking and ensure adequate funding for law enforcement agencies. unfortunately, the parliament's resolution is not balanced enough. in the field of law enforcement, the protection of fundamental rights and data protection are of paramount importance. however, it is not enough to focus on these alone to develop an appropriate, clear and coherent security strategy and protect our citizens. for all these reasons, i could not support this resolution in its present form and abstained from the final vote.
in writing. ‒ the pp group and the fidesz delegation welcome the commission's strategy in this important area, but we believe that the european parliament's response and recommendations are not sufficient and adequate to adequately assist the eu and its member states in the fight against organised crime and terrorism. the eu needs guidelines, measures, resources, expertise and action. we need to talk seriously and concretely about how to protect our children from violence, how to stop the radicalisation of young people, how to improve the exchange of information in law enforcement, how to prevent human trafficking and ensure adequate funding for law enforcement agencies. unfortunately, the parliament's resolution is not balanced enough. in the field of law enforcement, the protection of fundamental rights and data protection are of paramount importance. however, it is not enough to focus on these alone to develop an appropriate, clear and coherent security strategy and protect our citizens. for all these reasons, i could not support this resolution in its present form and abstained from the final vote.
in writing. ‒ the pp group and the fidesz delegation welcome the commission's strategy in this important area, but we believe that the european parliament's response and recommendations are not sufficient and adequate to adequately assist the eu and its member states in the fight against organised crime and terrorism. the eu needs guidelines, measures, resources, expertise and action. we need to talk seriously and concretely about how to protect our children from violence, how to stop the radicalisation of young people, how to improve the exchange of information in law enforcement, how to prevent human trafficking and ensure adequate funding for law enforcement agencies. unfortunately, the parliament's resolution is not balanced enough. in the field of law enforcement, the protection of fundamental rights and data protection are of paramount importance. however, it is not enough to focus on these alone to develop an appropriate, clear and coherent security strategy and protect our citizens. for all these reasons, i could not support this resolution in its present form and abstained from the final vote.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution because it contains concrete action plans in an area where the european union's coordinated action has been lagging behind the requirements of new types of security challenges for some time. the decision identifies areas such as terrorism, radical movements, cross-border organised crime and cybercrime, and their financing, where prevention and counteraction at national level against new criminal methods and phenomena have not proved effective and require closer european cooperation. i also think it is right that the resolution draws attention to the close link between the external and internal security of the european union, calling for greater coordination and coherence between the two areas in order to act more effectively. in addition to recognising the importance of all these factors, and as a representative with a strong commitment to democratic values, what was important in my decision to support the resolution was that the proposal specifically drew attention to the importance of transparency and the promotion of human rights, social and data protection aspects in the implementation of security measures.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the motion because i am deeply concerned by the rapidly deteriorating political, security and humanitarian situation in yemen. i welcome the urgency of the parties to the conflict to put an end to the use of force immediately. i also think it's important that we express our condolences to the families of the victims. the eu has reaffirmed its commitment to continue supporting yemen and the yemeni people. i also urge that an independent international investigation be conducted into all alleged violations of international human rights and international humanitarian law.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the adoption of the motion for a resolution as a contribution to support the european union's efforts to address the violence and humanitarian crisis in yemen, as proposed and implemented by the high representative/vice-president mogherini. i believe that the geographical proximity of the middle east region, the crisis affecting many other areas and the escalation of the civil war and refugee situation in yemen through the risk of further spread of international terrorism also pose a direct threat to the foreign and security interests of the european union and its member states, and that our common position and action are therefore important and timely. i trust that the saudi leadership will consider the considerations in the resolution and lift the naval blockade in the interest of the local population. as regards the situation in yemen, which is of particular concern and requires effective action by the international community, i assess that the political chaos and the refugee crisis that have developed could provide a new breeding ground for the violent actions of isis and other terrorist organisations. for my part, i welcome the fact that this decision draws the attention of the governments and international actors concerned to this danger with the necessary emphasis.
mr. president, there is hardly a hungarian who is not deeply affected by the issue of refugees from war. we'd like to help, but we can't. we think that the root causes of the problems that have forced so many unfortunate people to flee should be addressed. yes, the european union should look at who is actually funding, supporting, arming the islamic state. are they not, by any chance, very good friends of the european union? yes, we should look at the causes of poverty in sub-saharan africa. are not the so-called investors in the european union who are destroying their natural resources, exploiting them, etc. what about kosovo, which was so supported by the european union? what about the palestinian refugee issue? our good friend, our associate member, israel, every year, every second year, they shoot gaza down, and then we have to take in the refugees.
in writing. ‒ i share the view of the report that restoring stability in the middle east and north africa region should be a top priority. in view of the significant destabilisation of the region and the linking of the middle east and sahel fronts in the fight against terrorism, and the proximity of these fronts to the sensitive horn of africa, as well as the conflict in syria, iraq, yemen and libya and the escalation of tensions in the middle east and north africa, and the catastrophic consequences of such a situation for the security of the entire region, welcomes the rapporteur's call for the union and the eu member states to address the root causes of the rapidly deteriorating situation in the entire middle east and north africa region through a holistic and ambitious approach; i also stress the importance of the eu's permanent political presence at the highest possible level to ensure long-term strategic political dialogue and to ensure that a genuine common thinking is developed with the countries of the middle east and north africa region on their needs to promote regional stability. it is essential that the european union can only be an effective actor on the international stage if it is able to speak with a single voice; it therefore calls on the union to establish as soon as possible a genuine common foreign policy, closely coordinating its internal and external actions.
in writing. ‒ i supported the motion for a resolution because it gives a full and comprehensive picture of all the challenges facing the eu, and i believe that the eu should play a more meaningful and active role in promoting the middle east peace process. i think that the activity and determination of the high representative/vice-president mogherini in this area should be welcomed and that we should give her all the support we can from the ep. in considering this question, i have kept in mind that, in addition to the immediate geographical proximity, there is also a direct european interest, the external and internal stability of the eu, through the wave of refugees and terrorism. i considered regional security as a key issue and i agree with the objectives set out in paragraph 11 of the resolution in relation to the israeli-palestinian peace process, but i would have liked the ep to emphasise more strongly that the two-state solution - including the status of jerusalem - can only be achieved through a mutually satisfactory agreement negotiated directly by both parties, and that the eu can only facilitate the conditions for this by impartial political means. in addition, i consider it a useful element of the decision to open up the eu's potential space for action in the region, in addition to security and terrorism-related challenges, in terms of promoting human and democratic rights and economic development.
mr president, the review of the european neighbourhood policy is well and truly in its time. i could not support this report because i am a hungarian and i would like to support with my heart and mind the hungarians in the south of hungary, who live in what is now serbia, and the transcarpathian hungarians, who live in what is now ukraine. why is there so much silence about ukraine these days? so the european union suddenly went silent. in the context of the neighbourhood policy, let us look at all the suffering and deprivation that is taking place in transcarpathia, where hungarians are suffering on both sides, since they are citizens of a country that is currently at war and a maximally excluded so-called minority, that is, an indigenous national community. let them finally see their fate, that's neighborhood policy.
in writing. ‒ mr eduard kukan has done a very thorough job and gives a broad overview of the current state of the european neighbourhood policy, its objectives, its opportunities. recent events call for immediate solutions, for a more intensive dialogue between the european union and its neighbours, where the needs of the countries are treated as equals, for a shared responsibility with the partners, and for judicial, economic, social and cultural reforms in the partner countries. the eu should continue to monitor the respect for democracy and the rule of law, the protection of minorities, the independence of the judiciary in neighbouring countries and the fight against corruption. the solution to ending conflicts in different regions and promoting peace, stability and prosperity within and beyond the borders of our partner countries can be found in enhanced regional cooperation, strengthening accountability and transparency mechanisms, pushing for visa liberalisation, promoting closer cooperation in the fields of trade, education and culture. i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ mr eduard kukan has done a very thorough job and gives a broad overview of the current state of the european neighbourhood policy, its objectives and its opportunities. recent events call for immediate solutions, for a more intensive dialogue between the european union and its neighbours, where the needs of the countries are treated as equals, for a shared responsibility with the partners, and for judicial, economic, social and cultural reforms in the partner countries. the eu should continue to monitor the respect for democracy and the rule of law, the protection of minorities, the independence of the judiciary in neighbouring countries and the fight against corruption. the solution to ending conflicts in different regions and promoting peace, stability and prosperity within and beyond the borders of our partner countries can be found in enhanced regional cooperation, strengthening accountability and transparency mechanisms, pushing for visa liberalisation, promoting closer cooperation in the fields of trade, education and culture. i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the adoption of the report because it serves the purpose of a comprehensive conceptual review of the eu's common european neighbourhood policy, with the broadest possible political and interinstitutional support, in the face of new international challenges and reflecting eu institutional changes. i took this positive decision despite the fact that the report, which is very thorough and professionally based, fails to draw any conclusions and set priorities for the eu's future foreign policy action. recognising the importance and dangers of the new factors emerging in our mediterranean neighbourhood, i would have considered it appropriate to designate the crisis in ukraine as the eu's current priority neighbourhood policy task. our most important eastern neighbour, which is seeking its future in the eu, is in a state of virtual war, and that is why i consider putin's expansionist, violent policy to be the most serious international challenge facing the union and its member states today. the main test of the success and future chances of the renewed enr - indeed of the eu's entire security and foreign policy - will be the handling of the ukrainian crisis, and the measure of the eu's unity in pursuing ukraine's peaceful, european path. i hope and will strive in my role as a high representative for ukraine to ensure that this aspect is taken into account in the future in the implementation of the objectives set out in the report and in the further discussions on the review of the enp.
in writing. ‒ the pp group and the fidesz delegation welcome the commission's strategy in this important area, as the revision of directive 2001/29/ec is of central importance for the promotion of creativity and innovation, cultural diversity, economic growth, competitiveness, the digital single market and access to knowledge and information, while at the same time providing adequate recognition for authors of literary and artistic works and protection of their intellectual property rights. i consider it important to point out that article 167 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union states that the union shall contribute to the flowering of the cultures of the member states, in particular by promoting artistic and literary creation and by respecting their diversity. the report gives high priority to the objective of european growth and jobs as the commission's priority objective and as a central element in its programme for 2014-2019. i therefore welcome the report's mention of copyright as a tangible means of guaranteeing remuneration for creators and financing the creative process, and the commission's initiative to launch a copyright consultation, which has generated a great deal of interest from a wide range of stakeholders, including both the cultural sector and civil society.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the implementation of directive 2001/29/ec of the european parliament and of the council of 22 may 2001 on the harmonisation of certain aspects of copyright and related rights in the information society. the commission's commitment to copyright issues is welcome. the report will further help to ensure that copyright and related rights play their full role in fostering innovation and competitiveness. i think it is right that the report deals with the denial of access to content services on a territorial basis and highlights that this is contrary to the objectives of the four internal freedoms. i welcome the proposal that the commission should develop solutions to improve crossborder access for consumers to copyright-protected services and content. i also support the proposal to examine the commission's impact on jobs and innovation of the single european copyright. but i also want to emphasize that as important as copyright protection is, we should not go overboard and overregulate the field in an extreme way, creating situations that are impossible in this digital world. this has also justified my firm action against the intention to restrict freedom of panorama, and moreover to ensure freedom of panorama at european level.
mr president, i could not support the report on the evaluation of the activities of the european foundation for democracy because i feel that the kind of democracy that is practised here in the european union and in this parliament has nothing to promote. now, the basic premise of democracy would be what's called pluralism, which is the emergence of different political interests, the debate among them, and so on. there is a show going on here, but anyone who spends time here can see that the socialists and the people's party go hand in hand whenever it comes to representing the interests of the banks and the big capitalist corporations, the multinational companies, fulfilling their orders, and mr. martin schulz and his friends apply the rules of procedure, such as the blue card or allowing spontaneous debate, the spontaneous speeches of "catch the eye", how exactly these interests should be served to satisfy the ordering. i don't call that democracy, and i don't want to promote it, so i voted no.
in writing. ‒ in the light of the fact that the promotion and support of democracy, the rule of law and respect for the universality and indivisibility of human rights and fundamental freedoms are among the main objectives of the eu's external policy, as required by article 21 of the treaty on european union and the charter of fundamental rights, and that the eu considers the principle of accountability for the process of democratic construction to be of paramount importance for the promotion of a genuine democratic culture, the recommendations contained in the report are appropriate. i voted yes. i consider it important to note that the societies of many eu member states have undergone a successful process of democratic transformation in recent decades and have accumulated significant experience in this field for the activities of the european foundation for democracy, which can and should be used at expert and political level for the work of the european foundation for democracy. it includes an examination of the human rights and democratic support that has been initiated following the events of the arab spring and the events in the eastern neighbourhood.
in writing. ‒ considering that burundi has been in crisis since the end of april, as president nkurunziza has run for a third five-year presidential term, in violation of the arusha agreement and the burundian constitution. i consider it important to emphasise that his clinging to power has significantly divided society and the political actors, as another important figure within the ruling cndd-fdd party, the country's second vice-president gervais rufykiri, urged the president to put the interests of the burundian people before his own interests and to withdraw his candidacy for president, as it violates the constitution, and subsequently sought asylum in belgium. takes the view that the elections held in burundi on 29 june 2015 cannot be considered free, fair, credible and inclusive, as the electoral process was seriously marred by restrictions on independent media, excessive violence against protesters, intimidation of opposition parties and civil society, and lack of confidence in the electoral authorities, and urges the burundian authorities to postpone the presidential elections of 15 july 2015 and to involve all stakeholders in efforts to create an environment conducive to peaceful, credible, free and fair elections; the epp group and the fidesz delegation welcome the commission's strategy in this important area.
in writing. ‒ i supported the resolution in which the european parliament expresses its concern about the political and human rights situation in burundi, because i believe that the eu cannot turn a blind eye to serious violations which in addition to other sources of law also violate the cotonou convention in force between that country and the union and its member states. i am convinced that we cannot ignore the political practices that violate the burundian constitution and - among other things - the arusha convention, and that seek to extend the unlawful term of office of the president, to destroy the opposition and to abolish civil rights. i also took into account in my vote the fact that the political crisis and the threat of violence in burundi could destabilise the whole already fragile region and thus frustrate european and international efforts to alleviate the serious humanitarian situation. i hope that the weight of the european parliament's resolution will have an impact on burundi's political actors, especially the powers that be, and contribute to improving local political and humanitarian conditions. i also regard the continued motivation and strong political support for our joint eu foreign policy efforts there, as directed by hr mogherini, as an important objective of the resolution.
in writing. ‒ i welcome the fact that the motion commemorates with respect all the victims of the srebrenica massacre and the atrocities committed during the war in the former yugoslavia and extends my sympathy and condolences to the families of the victims. i would like to join the rapporteur in stressing that the timely prevention and effective punishment of genocide and crimes against humanity must be one of the european union's main priorities. i consider it important that you ask the council, the commission and the member states to use all the means at their disposal to ensure that such barbaric atrocities never happen again in europe and to investigate whether citizens of the union participated in or facilitated the commission of genocide, crimes against humanity or war crimes in the territory of bosnia and herzegovina between 1992 and 1995. calls on the parliamentary assembly of bosnia and herzegovina to adopt a resolution on the srebrenica genocide; welcomes the initiative of the united kingdom to call for the adoption of a un resolution on the subject;
in writing. ‒ i strongly supported the motion for a resolution on the anniversary of the srebrenica genocide, which commemorates the innocent civilian victims, also because, in addition to historical commemoration and mourning, i consider the message of today on the danger of extreme nationalism and the eu as a community and the responsibility of individual governments to be a particularly important element of the motion for a resolution. as a hungarian politician who is well acquainted with the situation in the region, i cannot fail to mention that there is still an eu government whose policy is to incite hatred against other nations and minorities, to incite its own population against immigrants and refugees with a poster campaign, and to play a part in inciting nationalist, xenophobic, roma and other anti-minority sentiments with the far right. i hope that the lesson of srebrenica and today's ep resolution will once again remind europe's responsible leaders, and in particular the orbán government, of where politics can lead when it plays with the fire of nationalist hatred.
mr president, i ask my colleagues with love and without provocation, and i hope very specifically that you are listening to the commissioner's interpretation. you can hear me, officer, because i'm gonna need you to give me a specific answer. you can hear me, right? so i ask if the european commission is aware of the szima judith case. szima judit was the most important trade union leader in hungary. he has just been sentenced to three years in prison under highly suspicious circumstances in connection with his trade union activities. he was the head of the police union. he became known to the country when there was mass police brutality in the streets of hungary in 2006, and he was the one who called on his comrades to publicly to refuse the illegal order. should we be concerned with cambodian trade union issues when something like this can happen in hungary, an eu member state, today? i'm waiting for a definite answer.
mr president, the plenary session was just about to be filled with the fact that one of our colleagues, who belongs to the socialist group, was mistakenly listed by the president-in-office as a member of the people's party. they're joking about it, maybe, because everybody knows that there's no real difference, because on the issues that really matter, they go hand in hand to maintain the status quo. this is true of the question that both of you think that the human rights situation in congo should be dealt with here now, and also that, for example, in hungary, when there were mass police brutality and other arbitrary arrests in 2006, this was done by your socialist comrades. now the police, the prosecutor's office, which is under the people's party, should be prosecuting, but they are not, they are protecting their socialist friends, their comrades. so much for the difference between the two major factions.
on behalf of the s&d group.– mr president, first of all i would like to thank ms ferrara for her excellent job on this report, but i would also like to take this opportunity to thank all colleagues, assistants and advisers for their hard work, especially those who constructively contributed to this report. this report was adopted in the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs (libe) where the majority of the committee decided in favour of the report. i hope that the outcome of that vote will also be respected in this chamber. this report also has other important implications for the fundamental rights of minorities: roma children, women and lgbti people and for those seeking asylum. the european union was founded on the principles of respect for human dignity, freedom, democracy, equality, the rule of law and respect for human rights. these values stem from the common constitutional traditions of all member states. upholding these values is of crucial importance for the proper functioning of the european union, because they guarantee that member states fulfil their international law obligations and that they can trust each other and the institutions of the european union. upholding these values cannot be a matter of current political needs or inactions. the already—existing tools and mechanisms are insufficient for dealing with breaches of democracy, the rule of law and fundamental rights. this has been proved in the last couple of years and must be rectified. that is why in this report we call for a new mechanism that is automatically triggered in cases of breaches of fundamental values and rights, to remedy the breaches, to avoid the materialisation of systematic threats in member states. our common european fundamental values are being threatened first and foremost from within, right before our eyes. democratic parties of europe have to unite to protect these values. failing to do so may have severe consequences, including the possibility of the european union falling apart. almost 60 years have passed since its foundation. we cannot let the efforts of the last 60 years vanish into thin air. i ask you to vote in favour of this report.
it's a two-card draw. when you spoke about the reception of refugees, you referred in particular to those who have saved their lives in war zones and to whom the european union provides asylum in accordance with its rules. what explanation do you have for the fact that when these people reach the schengen border, the hungarian border, they do not cross the legal border crossing, but they throw away their documents used until then, they arrive at the green border. what's the explanation?
two basic and universally recognized human rights are missing from this report. one is the collective and individual human right to belong to a national community in one's own country, to use its language, to preserve its customs, traditions and religious roots. that is, in hungary, for example, we have the right to live as hungarians. the other is national self-determination, which is essentially about being able to decide for ourselves how and how we want to live in our own country. the overwhelming majority of hungarian people are telling you that we want to live in hungary as hungarians, we think that hungary belongs to the hungarians. and in the context of national self-determination, if our german friends think differently, and they think they want to live in a multicultural country, the right of their heart is also a human right. we, on the other hand, want to live by the right of national self-determination, as i said, so we think that hungary belongs to the hungarians. what is your position on this as a human rights issue?
it's a two-card draw. i think the issue of violence against women that you raised is very important, and that's why i'm asking you what you thought about the scene that was full of the press when a muslim migrant man became frustrated. he grabbed his wife, who was five months pregnant, and his little baby, and dragged them onto the railroad tracks, and all of this -- of course, the hungarian police intervened professionally, tried to protect the woman and the child from abuse -- was staged as rape by the hungarian police. and this sex offender was also portrayed as being entitled to some kind of glorification for what he did. what's your position on this?
it's a two-card draw. i was very pleased with many things, but my dear compatriot, my colleague here in the house used the term 'ethiopian national community' very correctly in his oral speech, but in the written version it is called a minority. it starts at number 24 and it's called "support for minorities". we know this very well, that europe is constantly mixing these concepts, they don't understand what it is to be an indigenous national community. we are trying to force this, and i ask my epp colleagues to force it into the text. more so because in the michel report, the previous fundamental rights report, it was already there. so there's a backsliding here, and that needs to be corrected. would my colleague be willing to support that?
in writing.– we still have today national linguistic minorities living within eu borders which face discrimination and are treated as second-class citizens. as co-chair of the intergroup for traditional minorities, national communities and languages, i am sorry to see plenty of cases that are missing from the report. i would especially like to raise the situations of the hungarian minority in romania and slovakia. the report is a highly political document which, under the veil of ‘fundamental human rights’, covers a whole range of positions that overstep eu competence and are highly controversial among european citizens. although being sympathetic with mrs ferrara for the huge amount of energy she had to put into this report, as in 2010 i was also rapporteur for the same report, nevertheless i cannot agree with her proposal. the report proposes a new rule-of-law mechanism, which i do not consider necessary because a mechanism to check the state of fundamental rights in member states already exists. as we have witnessed during past years, the political groups of the left use fundamental rights politically and would use a new rule-of-law mechanism politically against governments led by ppe parties, such as in hungary.
i quote from an open letter from the mayor of asotthalom, a town on the serbian-hungarian border that has suffered a lot, and which he illustrated with photographs. yesterday, a group of illegal migrants, after crossing the border illegally, simply closed a busy road in the administrative area of asotthalom after traveling a few kilometers. beyond the extreme danger of the accident, can you imagine how the law-abiding, tax-paying hungarian citizen must have felt to be confronted by this maddening, threatening company? especially if your children were in the car and saw that you wouldn't let them go home in this crowd. because of the insane decisions of the european union's leaders, more and more people are coming, more and more aggressive, more and more demanding, they see that the laws are not for them to follow. commissioner timmermans, as a great expert on the rule of law, what do you think of this? and the idea of equality... (the president cut the speaker off)
there are european governments that see european solidarity as a one-way street. they accept european union money, but they refuse to take responsibility for anything. so is the hungarian government, which is building a pointless barbed wire fence on the southern border of the country, and keeping the refugees coming to us in inhuman conditions. this government is preparing to pass a law in the hungarian parliament next week that will allow the use of the army against weakened refugees from war zones. and of course, he's looking for the criminal, the scapegoat. he has put forward a motion for a resolution in parliament which blames the european union - and you too, ladies and gentlemen - for the deaths of refugees and the creation of this refugee situation. however, thank god, the hungarian government is not equal to the hungarian people. the hungarian people have been tested for their humanity in recent weeks. so i have to thank the hungarian civilians, the volunteers, the migration aid staff for showing that we are not the same as our government, and more importantly... (the president cut the speaker off)
in writing. first of all, i would like to thank mrs michaela šojdrová for the high-quality and comprehensive report on promoting entrepreneurship among young people through education and training. i appreciate your work. the high rate of youth unemployment, which is 22% on average in the eu and exceeds 50% in some countries and regions, remains a pressing problem in the european union. one of the reasons for the high youth unemployment and the large number of unfilled jobs in the european union is the gap between education and training and the labour market, which must also be addressed by equipping young people with the key competences - including entrepreneurial skills - needed to become confident participants in today's knowledge-based economy and society. entrepreneurship education at all levels (primary, secondary and tertiary) is a very effective tool for motivating young people and for their decision to start their own business and career and for their success in this career. i believe that in today's europe there is a great need for an approach that supports young people in such areas as their creativity, their ability to take risks, their ability to deal with failure and their responsibility. thank you very much for your attention.
animal cloning is an interference with the natural order that is rightly ethically reprehensible. cloning also reduces genetic diversity and is objectionable from an animal welfare point of view. the cloning technique is characterized by high mortality rates. in several areas, information is limited and it is necessary to investigate how the consumption of meat and milk from cloned animals and their offspring affects the immune system of humans. the legislation proposed by the commission is not acceptable, and the amendments by the rapporteurs are very correct in their transcription of the basic questions. the ban on cloning is extended to include the range of farmed animals identified by the commission. the amendment would not only prohibit the cloning of animals, but also the import of reproductive material from third countries and the marketing of food derived from animal clones and their descendants. this is all linked to the proposed eu-us free trade agreement. the ban would - very rightly - not be a temporary measure, but a regulation instead of a directive, closing the loophole to transposition. only 18% of the european population is in favour of animal cloning. if we are constantly proud that the european parliament is the only directly elected institution of the union and that we represent the interests of the people, then we must accept the amendments of the rapporteurs.
i would remind the house that in this case it is our job to signal the problems. the european commission will examine the various problems and hopefully propose solutions. i think that we are raising a number of real problems in this parliament, such as the loss of genetic diversity due to cloning, the problem of various genetic dead ends, technological dependencies and, above all, ethical issues - which is not the last issue. so this report that we're discussing, i think it's a good one, even though there are some points where there are different opinions about whether or not we can control the cloning offspring, or what we call cloning at all. i think, mr president, that we shall have to see what solutions the commission proposes, and that is why i would urge everyone to support this report at this point. this is not our final word, although we clearly have a will not to clone.
in writing. i recommend supporting all the points in the report on the ban on cloning. as a representative of hungarian farmers who are well-known in the food sector and as a member of the committee on agriculture, it is of the utmost importance to me that hungarian and european consumers have access to safe and high-quality food. cloning is a completely new technique in food production. in the absence of conclusive scientific evidence, we don't really know whether eating food from cloned animals could cause serious health problems. we must therefore use one of the european union's fundamental principles, the principle of prevention. so we have to ban all the technology and all the food that we can't prove is 100 percent safe. i also agree with my colleagues that cloning can cause unnecessary suffering and pain in farmed animals, which should be avoided. this is clearly required by the eu animal welfare legislation.
it's a two-card draw. mr. deputy, i was very pleased to hear you list the many options for common european action including prevention and punishment. but i ask you, in the context of the common agricultural policy, whether you would accept that the european union should move towards a fiscal union for agricultural products?
in writing. ‒ forced labour violates human rights and human dignity for millions of men,women,young girls and boys. the struggle against this most violent form of exploitation has been central to many of the major political and philosophical movements for emancipation. the struggle for emancipation, which aimed to free man from political and cultural domination and physical dependencies, always attacked slave labor, which prevented the exercise of other rights. yet, in the 21st century, forced labor still affects 21 million people who are victims of exploitation that generates $150 billion a year for the organizers and perpetrators of this crime. the 2014 protocol to the 1930 ilo convention on forced labour updates the convention by providing it with new instruments and binding legal force to combat forced labour. i therefore voted in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ today, new forms of forced labour are spreading, including the use of people lured abroad with the promise of work opportunities to perform the most difficult and humiliating jobs, abusing their vulnerable position, often through physical violence and constant psychological aggression. the draft council decision aims to encourage the eu to ratify as soon as possible the 2014 protocol to the international labour organisation's 1930 convention on forced labour, thereby contributing to the success of the union's efforts to ensure human rights and decent work for all and to combat trafficking in human beings within and outside the union. i voted in favour of parliament giving its assent to this council decision.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the recommendation because i agree that we must also take action against this form of exploitation. the recommendation describes forced labour as a 21st century phenomenon, still affecting at least 21 million people globally who are victims of exploitation. it is a sad fact that, although debt slavery officially no longer exists on the european continent, 880,000 people in the european union and 1.6 million people across the continent are still trapped in these new forms of forced labour. these include men and women lured by offers of foreign work but actually trapped by their supposed employers, migrants exploited by human traffickers, and vulnerable children torn from their homes. i therefore agree that these new forms of trafficking and exploitation must be tackled by means of the law and by strong enforcement action. this is the objective of the 2014 protocol to the 1930 international labour organisation (ilo) convention on forced labour, to which this recommendation of the committee on employment and social affairs of the european parliament was addressed.
in writing. ‒ the eu has enshrined the prohibition of forced labour in its primary legislation by incorporating the charter of the fundamental social rights of workers and the european social charter of the council of europe into the treaty on the functioning of the european union. the european union should pursue the protection of human rights and fair work through its policies. i voted in favour of accepting the recommendation.
in writing. ‒ polish police suspect that janusz korwin-mikke, polish member of the european parliament, committed an offence by driving his own car at a speed significantly exceeding the maximum speed allowed in a residential area on 6 september 2014. i voted in favour of the european parliament contributing to the suspension of the member's immunity in the case in question and thus allowing the authorities of the republic of poland to pursue the legal proceedings against the member.
in writing. ‒ in line with the european people's party's line, i voted in favour of the jaakonsaari report. the european commission intends to amend regulation (ec) no 515/97 on customs fraud to make the fight against fraud in the payment of customs duties and taxes more effective by standardising and simplifying the system. the draft will significantly speed up the flow of information between the commission and the member states and make coordinated action against fraud more effective. it also ensures better protection of customers' personal data, and shortens the time needed for procedures and deadlines. the hungarian government introduced similar measures last year, so it is positive for hungary that the eu is willing to take similar steps.
in writing. ‒ the european parliament has debated the draft regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending council regulation (ec) no 515/97 at second reading. i voted in favour of the amendment entering into force following a unanimous decision by a large majority in the competent committee of the european parliament.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the rapporteur's amendment at second reading, which proposed to reject the results achieved so far and to end the conciliation process. in my view, the compromise reached between the european parliament and the european council will help in the fight against crossborder tax evasion and vat fraud. i believe it is important to develop effective tools to counter practices that cause significant disadvantages both to the member states and to the european union as a whole. these practices not only cause economic disadvantages but also pose health risks (e.g. lack of place of origin or quality assurance). in my view, the existence of different rates of excise duty is a major obstacle to further harmonisation, which gives rise to abuses, for example in the case of agricultural products. i also believe that, in addition to prevention and detection, a single tax and fee union is needed.
in writing. ‒ in line with the european people's party's line, i voted in favour of the adoption of the buşoi report. the convention on tariffs and trade provides for the possibility of prohibiting the import of certain products on animal welfare and health grounds. the european union has therefore prohibited the import of seal products, as permitted by gatt rules. canada and norway challenged this decision at the world trade organisation, but the wto dispute settlement panel (court) accepted the eu's trade restrictive measures. this is a precedent-setting judgment in wto jurisprudence. the protection of human and animal health and the protection of nature are more important than free trade. therefore, the european union - on animal health and animal welfare grounds - may legitimately prohibit, for example, the import of cloned animals and foodstuffs derived from them, and the import of other foodstuffs or substances that have not been clearly identified as safe by science.
in writing. ‒ regulation (ec) no 1007/2009 of the european parliament and of the council has completely banned trade in seal products in the european union, with two exceptions. the order was challenged before the wto by canada and norway. the competent bodies of the wto rejected two exceptions to the regulation. the purpose of the proposal to amend the regulation, which is now being examined, is to bring it into line with the recommendations and decisions of the wto on the matter. i supported the motion.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the proposal as i believe it is important to regulate trade in endangered species and products derived from them. i believe that we can only be effective in such matters if we are united. the proposal does not prohibit indigenous communities from pursuing seal hunting in a sustainable manner for subsistence purposes in accordance with the un declaration on the rights of indigenous peoples and other relevant international agreements. however, even in this case, due attention should be paid to the welfare of the animals. the proposal prohibits indigenous communities from engaging in commercial activities and calls on the commission to establish detailed rules on the marketing of seal products.
in writing. ‒ in line with the guidelines of the european people's party, i voted in favour of the adoption of the parliament's report on the draft law banning cloning. as a member of the hungarian european parliament, it is of the utmost importance to me that hungarian and european consumers consume safe and good quality food. cloning, as a completely new technique in food production, can also pose serious health risks, as the scientific evidence to guarantee its safety is so far less well known and not sufficiently convincing. on the other hand, i agree with my colleagues that cloning causes unnecessary suffering and pain to farmed animals, which should be avoided. this is clearly required by the eu animal welfare legislation. i agree with the further restrictions contained in the parliamentary report. in addition to the placing on the market of clones, the use for agricultural purposes and the import of reproductive material (sperm, ova, zygote) from the first generation of offspring of those animals and the placing on the market of foodstuffs derived from those animals within the eu should be prohibited. it is a great success for me that they have agreed to extend the ban to feed made from cloned animals.
in writing. ‒ cloning is not currently used for agricultural purposes in the european union. however, certain third countries are making use of this possibility, including the united states, canada, argentina, brazil and australia. cloning can be used, for example, to produce breeding animals of excellent quality. a large number of scientific studies have demonstrated that animal cloning poses risks to animal welfare. cloning is a matter of great concern to european citizens: a eurobarometer survey in 2010 showed that the european public considered animal cloning to be unprofitable, unsafe, unequal and a cause for concern, with only 18% of respondents supporting the technique. in line with the rapporteur's opinion, i am of the opinion that the negative consequences of cloning, including on animal welfare, are of incomparably greater importance than any possible positive effects. i therefore welcome the commission's proposal to ban the cloning technique, but i believe that the proposal has failed to respond adequately to the legitimate concerns expressed repeatedly by citizens and the european parliament.
in writing. ‒ the proposal for a directive of the european parliament and of the council submitted by the commission seeks to suspend the use of cloning techniques, the placing on the market of live animal clones and embryo clones, and the commercialisation of food derived from animal clones, including meat and milk, in the eu for animal welfare and ethical reasons. the report, while agreeing with the principles and purpose of the commission proposal, proposes to introduce significant restrictions on what is contained in the commission proposal. i voted for the motion.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report because i believe that the issue of cloning should be addressed, both because of the progress of science and the ethical implications of the practice. consumer surveys show that european citizens strongly oppose the consumption of food products derived from cloned animals and that the majority also oppose cloning for agricultural purposes on animal welfare and general ethical grounds. the topic is therefore also the subject of intense debate among the general public, although the definition of cloning is not always clear, as it is often confused with genetically modified organisms (gmos). during the debate i pointed out that we are facing a serious issue and that the role of the european parliament is to signal the problem and provide political guidance. the commission should further examine this problem from a scientific and practical point of view and propose a solution. i also emphasized that the report raises real issues, from the decline in genetic diversity due to cloning, to the increase in technology dependence, to the serious ethical issues. that is why i have supported the exclusion of the cloning of farm animals and the products and imports of the descendants of cloned animals at this point. i think the report does its job, even if there are other opinions on some points, like whether it's possible to control the cloning of offspring, or what we really call cloning.
(the first part of the speech was not recorded due to a technical problem.) ... the report on the application of the fundamental rights of the european union. given the fact that mass illegal immigration is taking place, this report gives migrants almost unlimited rights. it is a fact that the european union has a right to a fair trial, and that it has a right to a fair trial. i proudly hold in my hand the dramatic statement of the national defense service. it was the hungarian organization that stood up for the human rights of hungarians and stood by the victims during the mass shootings and human rights violations in 2006. the title of this one is: migration crisis: hungarians have rights too. and it offers professional legal assistance to individuals who are affected by violations, such as the destruction of their crops, the destruction of their land, violations that come to the fore in the context of threats to public safety, violations related to the impossibility of public transport, and so on. i urge my fellow lawyers across europe to do the same, to stand up for the human rights of their fellow citizens.
in writing. ‒ as a member of the hungarian people's party delegation, i could not vote for the ferrara report because, under the guise of fundamental rights, it takes a position on a number of issues that not only go beyond the union's competences, but are also highly controversial among european citizens. the report proposes a new rule of law mechanism, which we do not see as necessary because there is already a procedure which examines the fundamental legal situation of the member states. as the past years have shown, left-wing factions use fundamental rights to assert themselves politically against primarily populist-led member states such as hungary. they would also use a new rule of law mechanism for political purposes.
in writing. ‒ as a member of the hungarian people's party delegation, i could not vote for the ferrara report because, under the guise of fundamental rights, it takes a position on a number of issues that not only go beyond the union's competences, but are also highly controversial among european citizens. the report proposes a new rule of law mechanism, which we do not see as necessary because there is already a mechanism that examines the fundamental legal situation of the member states. as the past years have shown, left-wing factions use fundamental rights to assert themselves politically against primarily populist-led member states such as hungary. they would also use a new rule of law mechanism for political purposes.
in writing. as a member of the hungarian people's party delegation, i was unable to vote in favour of the ferrara report because, under the guise of fundamental rights, it takes a position on a number of issues that not only go beyond the union's competence but are also highly controversial among european citizens. the report proposes a new rule of law mechanism, which we do not see as necessary because there is already a mechanism that examines the fundamental legal situation of the member states. as the past years have shown, left-wing factions use fundamental rights to assert themselves politically against primarily populist-led member states such as hungary. they would also use a new rule of law mechanism for political purposes.
in writing. ‒ as a member of the hungarian people's party delegation, i could not vote for the ferrara report because, under the guise of fundamental rights, it takes a position on a number of issues that not only go beyond the union's competences, but are also highly controversial among european citizens. the report proposes a new rule of law mechanism, which we do not see as necessary because there is already a mechanism that examines the fundamental legal situation of the member states. as the past years have shown, left-wing factions use fundamental rights to assert themselves politically against primarily populist-led member states such as hungary. they would also use a new rule of law mechanism for political purposes.
in writing. ‒ given the recent start of a new parliamentary term and the recent inauguration of a new commission in which respect for the charter of fundamental rights is a key issue, given the mandate of the first vice-president and the important role he has played as commissioner for the protection of fundamental rights in the union, it is our top priority to review the situation of fundamental human rights. unfortunately, institutional actors and ngos report an alarming number of violations of fundamental rights in the eu member states. i find this situation unacceptable. the european institutions and the member states must act with determination and decisiveness to prevent and put an end to such violations. the eu's external relations strategy on human rights and democracy must be consistent with the existing framework and the so-called copenhagen dilemma must be overcome, i.e. the need to ensure thorough monitoring of respect for fundamental rights and the rule of law, not only before but also after accession to the union. in addition, in order to ensure that the strategy is truly effective, a mechanism should be established that is genuinely dissuasive in preventing and addressing violations of fundamental rights by member states.
in writing. ‒ as a member of the hungarian people's party delegation, i did not support the ferrara report. using the theme of fundamental rights, the document takes a position on a number of issues that not only go beyond the union's competences, but are also highly controversial among european citizens. the report proposes a new rule of law mechanism, which we do not see as necessary because there is already a mechanism that examines the fundamental legal situation of the member states. as the past years have shown, left-wing factions use fundamental rights for political gain, primarily against member states led by populist parties, such as hungary. they would also use a new rule of law mechanism for political purposes.
in writing. ‒ as a member of the hungarian people's party delegation, i could not vote for the ferrara report because, under the guise of fundamental rights, it takes a position on a number of issues that not only go beyond the union's competences, but are also highly controversial among european citizens. the report proposes a new rule of law mechanism, which we do not see as necessary because there is already a mechanism that examines the fundamental legal situation of the member states. as the past years have shown, left-wing factions use fundamental rights to assert themselves politically against primarily populist-led member states such as hungary. they would also use a new rule of law mechanism for political purposes.
in writing. ‒ the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon gave the charter of fundamental rights, which recognises the personal, civil, political, economic and social rights of citizens and residents of the union, the same binding legal force as that provided for in the treaties. respect for the charter of fundamental rights is a key issue in the work of the new parliamentary term and the new commission which has just taken office. the report finds that fundamental rights are nevertheless being violated in alarming numbers in the eu member states, and that the european institutions and the member states must act with determination and decisiveness to prevent and put an end to such violations. the report recommends a strategy to ensure coherence with the strategic framework on human rights and democracy already in place in the eu's external relations and to overcome the so-called copenhagen dilemma by proposing to monitor respect for fundamental rights and the rule of law not only before but also after accession to the union. it also proposes the establishment of a mechanism that is sufficiently dissuasive in preventing and addressing violations of fundamental rights by member states.
in writing. ‒ as a member of the hungarian people's party delegation, i could not vote for the ferrara report because, under the guise of fundamental rights, it takes a position on a number of issues that not only go beyond the union's competences, but are also highly controversial among european citizens. the report proposes a new rule of law mechanism, which we do not see as necessary because there is already a mechanism that examines the fundamental legal situation of the member states. as the past years have shown, left-wing factions use fundamental rights to assert themselves politically against primarily populist-led member states such as hungary. they would also use a new rule of law mechanism for political purposes.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the adoption of our report reflecting the commission's proposals, which i regard as a long-awaited step forward towards the establishment of a community instrument guaranteeing the democratic functioning and development of the european union and its member states. i welcome the fact that, in addition to the general conclusions, it also provides for the incorporation of specific instruments into the european legal order. i consider that, when properly and consistently applied, such a substantive instrument is the establishment of member state scoreboards based on objective indicators and the continuous monitoring of fundamental rights on the basis thereof, and the prospect of automatic application of article 7 of the treaty. i considered the report's virtues to be its reflection of the current situation, its emphasis on the link between the rights and reception and treatment of refugees and the overall fundamental rights performance of the member state concerned, and its call for urgent improvement in this area. as a hungarian opposition member, this aspect was particularly important in my vote, given that the demand on which the resolution is based was triggered by the violations of the hungarian government, which were further aggravated by its treatment of refugees. i also consider it important that the report gives due weight to the violations affecting various minorities in society and the layers of society affected by economic restrictions. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
in writing. ‒ i think that public hearings of future members of the european commission are a very useful practice. the hearings provide an opportunity for parliament and the public to discover the personality, general approach and priorities of each commissioner-designate and to assess his or her qualifications. and if there are any problems, it's better to find out before you take office than afterwards. the question may arise in the spirit of democracy and transparency what would happen if a similar procedure were carried out at national level before the appointment of ministers much would be revealed during the three-hour public inquiry before taking office! in particular, i consider it to be a very useful innovation that the hearings were accompanied by a significant media interest, not only through the traditional media channels but also via the internet (particularly the european parliament's website) and social media. the latter has grown considerably since the hearing five years ago and plays a very important role in bringing the eu institutions closer to the citizens.
in writing. ‒ the practice of public hearings of future members of the european commission has developed over the last 20 years under pressure from parliament, which simply required that, before parliament held a vote of confidence in the commission, commissioners-designate appear before the parliamentary committees corresponding to their portfolio (the 'commissioners' committee'). the report states that this has now become a well-established practice. it also reviews the results of the last three parliamentary votes on the commission in the light of the hearings in the commission. i agree with the conclusions of the report and therefore voted in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ the corbett report contains highly important recommendations for the organisation of commissioner-designate hearings. for this reason, i decided to vote in favour.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report because i believe it sets out with sufficient precision the lessons we have learned from the hearings of commissioners-designate. by selecting the right dates for the election and nomination, the current members of the european parliament were able to participate in the process of appointing commissioners in 2014. the european parliament's hearings of commissioners became a practice in 1994 and have since become indispensable for parliament to make an informed assessment of the commission in its vote of confidence in the commission as it takes office. the report stresses the importance of setting deadlines for each member state to nominate its candidate and of making the process of the hearing more interactive, including the use of social media. in practice, formally, the whole parliament votes on the commission as a whole and the opinions of individual committees on individual commissioners have no legal significance, but the composition of the commission or the distribution of the portfolios may change. it should be added, however, that the hearings are not intended to attempt to change the political composition of the commission. because the unsuccessful candidates will be replaced by another candidate appointed by the same government.
in writing. ‒ this is an important procedure and a good way of learning from experience. the treaty does not provide for a hearing procedure. this practice has developed over the past two decades under pressure from the parliament, which simply requires that, before parliament can hold a vote of confidence in the commission (as provided for in article 17 teu), commissioners-designate appear before the parliamentary committees corresponding to their portfolio. it's become a good practice. it's important to discuss experiences. the committee on transport and tourism delivered an opinion on the report. i voted in favour of the committee's opinion and the full report.
i voted in favour of the report on the relationship between human rights and technology, as i strongly condemn the mass surveillance of citizens that edward snowden has revealed, among other things. but i'm also looking for an answer to a fundamental question, and that is, how is it that they can't use all this knowledge, all this technology, and sort of redirect resources to finding the human trafficking gangs that are causing so much suffering, or to unmasking the islamic state, isis, which is also causing so much suffering? for example, you know, isis has gotten their hands on oil wells in syria and elsewhere. somewhere this oil is being sold, someone is buying this oil. i'm no intelligence expert, but i suppose if the intelligence community can tell us with any certainty what any of us had for breakfast here today, then perhaps with some effort, they can tell us where isis is getting its money, and they can identify and punish the gangs of people smugglers. what's missing? we have the technology, we have the resources. the political will is what's missing. and this is the fundamental problem with the whole issue of mass illegal migration, that they don't want to eliminate the underlying causes -- it seems.
in writing. ‒ the report supports and prioritises the promotion and protection of fundamental human rights and fundamental freedoms in the context of the fight against terrorism. furthermore, the points on freedom of expression and the right to freedom of expression deserve particular attention, in particular with regard to the exercise of the human rights to privacy, freedom of expression and freedom of expression in the context of state surveillance of communications. technological progress and access to the open internet are becoming more and more common in all our lives and deserve special attention in order to promote and ensure respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms. i believe that technological progress is having a positive impact, expanding the scope of freedom of expression, access to information, privacy and freedom of assembly and association worldwide, but that regulation and security are of paramount importance, as technological systems are being used as a tool for human rights violations through censorship, surveillance, unauthorised access to devices, interference, data collection, the tracing and tracing of information and individuals.
in writing. ‒ the report notes that technological progress and access to the open internet are becoming increasingly important for human rights and fundamental freedoms and broaden the scope of freedom of expression, access to information, the right to privacy and freedom of assembly and association. at the same time, it draws attention to the use of technological systems as a tool for human rights violations by public and private actors, including governments and law enforcement agencies, as well as criminal organisations and terrorist networks, through censorship, surveillance, unauthorised access to devices, interference, data collection, tracing and tracing of information and individuals. it recommends and urges measures to ensure that technological progress contributes to the fulfilment of fundamental freedoms and that human rights violations become more difficult to commit.
i voted in favour of this report because i consider it very important to prevent and detect fraud in the area of eu area and other agricultural aid. the most obvious way to commit such fraud, and unfortunately my own country is no exception, is to gamble on state-owned land for the benefit of friends and colleagues. whether it's in the form of a lease or, which is just starting in hungary, in the form of a transfer of ownership. and with the eu subsidies that go after these lands, these buddies, these cronies, these gangs, so to speak, can easily get rich. the european union has a very important task to prevent this. by insisting that all tenders for leasing or land acquisition be made in the greatest publicity and transparency.
in writing. ‒ the european parliament's committee on budgets discussed and adopted in july 2015 a report on the protection of the financial interests of the european union, including the strengthening of the performance-based control of the common agricultural policy. the system for checking the regularity of agricultural payments is becoming increasingly costly, with almost 40 million transactions audited each year. there is certainly a need for rationalisation and simplification in this area. the report makes recommendations, such as the introduction of control systems based on risk analysis and the elimination of parallel control processes, among others. i supported the motion in the plenary vote.
in writing. ‒ the european parliament's committee on budgets discussed and adopted in july 2015 a report on the protection of the financial interests of the european union, including the strengthening of the performance-based control of the common agricultural policy. the system for checking the regularity of agricultural payments is becoming increasingly costly, with almost 40 million transactions audited each year. there is certainly a need for streamlining and simplification in this area. the report makes recommendations, such as the introduction of control systems based on risk analysis and the elimination of parallel control processes, among others. i supported the motion of the finnish people's party rapporteur in the plenary vote.
in writing. the european parliament's committee on budgets discussed and adopted in july 2015 a report on the protection of the financial interests of the european union, including the strengthening of the performance-based control of the common agricultural policy. the system for checking the regularity of agricultural payments is becoming increasingly costly, with almost 40 million transactions audited each year. there is certainly a need for rationalisation and simplification in this area. the report makes recommendations, such as the introduction of control systems based on risk analysis and the elimination of parallel control processes, among others. i supported the finnish people's party rapporteur's proposal in both the committee and the plenary vote.
in writing. ‒ in line with the european people's party's line, i voted in favour of the adoption of the sarvamaa report. in my view, the distinction between the concept of intentional misuse and the concept of error should be made clear when monitoring the use of aid. in the latter category, farmers should not be subject to severe penalties. on the other hand, there will be less error if the european commission significantly reduces the financial and administrative burden on farmers. i am glad that my suggestion has been incorporated in the report.
in writing. ‒ the european parliament's committee on budgets discussed and adopted in july 2015 a report on the protection of the financial interests of the european union, including the strengthening of the performance-based control of the common agricultural policy. the system for checking the regularity of agricultural payments is becoming increasingly costly, with almost 40 million transactions audited each year. there is certainly a need for rationalisation and simplification in this area. the report makes recommendations, such as the introduction of control systems based on risk analysis and the elimination of parallel control processes, among others. i supported the finnish people's party rapporteur's motion.
in writing. ‒ following two rounds of reforms of the common agricultural policy (cap), the rules have become more fragmented and complex, and more errors are being made because of the more complex rules, and the objectives of the cap must be met while ensuring mutual understanding and trust between all eu institutions, national and regional bodies in order to implement the cap effectively. i believe that a more effective and efficient reform of the cap requires simplification and a reduction in administrative burdens in order to achieve the cap's objectives. taking into account the views of users, it is important that they are not overwhelmed by a disproportionately high number of tests. i also urge the cap to be less bureaucratic, with the aim of reducing the error rate and introducing tools that allow the distinction between error and fraud. i welcome the proposal that when using the findings of the checks and imposing any sanctions, a distinction should be made between non-intentional omissions and fraud, since omissions do not generally cause any financial damage to taxpayers. in this light, i am calling for a less bureaucratic cap that is clearly feasible and can be interpreted with the aim of reducing the error rate and introducing tools that allow the distinction between error and fraud, while ensuring that farmers remain able to produce the essential food that is the essence of the policy.
in writing. ‒ the european parliament's committee on budgets discussed and adopted in july 2015 a report on the protection of the financial interests of the european union, including the strengthening of the performance-based control of the common agricultural policy. the system for checking the regularity of agricultural payments is becoming increasingly costly, with almost 40 million transactions audited each year. there is certainly a need for streamlining and simplification in this area. the report makes recommendations, such as the introduction of control systems based on risk analysis and the elimination of parallel control processes, among others. i supported the finnish people's party rapporteur's proposal in both the committee and the plenary vote.
in writing. ‒ the european parliament's committee on budgets discussed and adopted in july 2015 a report on the protection of the financial interests of the european union, including the strengthening of the performance-based control of the common agricultural policy. the system for checking the regularity of agricultural payments is becoming increasingly costly, with almost 40 million transactions audited each year. there is certainly a need for rationalisation and simplification in this area. the report makes recommendations, such as the introduction of control systems based on risk analysis and the elimination of parallel control processes, among others. i supported the finnish people's party rapporteur's proposal in both the committee and the plenary vote.
in writing. ‒ the report finds that after two rounds of cap reforms, the rules have become more fragmented and complex, leading to more errors being made locally. it therefore calls for a less bureaucratic cap with the aim of reducing the error rate and for the introduction of tools that allow for the distinction between error and fraud; it also urges that national authorities and farmers be given clearer guidance in order to reduce the error rate.
in writing. ‒ in my view, the protection of the financial interest of the european union is key; it is what drives the simplification of the common agricultural policy in general and in this case as well. i supported the report - which i helped to draft as a shadow taxpayer - because i believe that the level of bureaucracy and other constraints should be reduced, but in a way that simplification does not give rise to fraud. the simplification of the control system is necessary because, despite the many simplifications, the system is still not user-friendly. the controls are overlapping and, of course, impose an unmanageable burden on the beneficiaries: the member states' paying agencies, the certifying and central bodies, the tax authorities, the european commission (at both levels) and the european court of auditors all have audit or control roles. i believe that the common agricultural policy should stimulate agricultural production, ensure a decent standard of living for farming communities, stabilise the market and produce affordable food. all these wishes are enshrined in the treaty and should not be present as an unattainable barrier.
i voted yes to the report on family businesses. family businesses would also play a very important role in the former socialist countries, not only in the economic but also in the political sphere. why do i say that? if there were thriving family businesses, they would be the most independent people. they wouldn't be vulnerable to power. like the many, many public servants who either get public service or don't. depending on how he behaves, whether he's misbehaving, whether he's going to a protest or something, or not. they're not vulnerable like the workers who work for 50 or 60 thousand forints. so they would be the ones who could be actively involved in public life, whether it's at the local level, at the municipal level, at the national level. because they could live with dignity, with their heads held high, economically and independently in every way. now, that's exactly why they're not supported.
in writing. ‒ the report highlights the role that family farms have played in the recovery of the european economy in the past and continue to play in economic and social development, reducing unemployment, especially among young people, and investing in human capital. the report highlights, among other things, the importance of policies for family businesses, which can encourage entrepreneurship and motivate european families to start their own family businesses. it considers it a problem that many family businesses, which no longer fit the definition of an sme but are still far from being large companies, cannot benefit from certain support options or be exempt from certain administrative obligations. this inevitably leads to unnecessary red tape, which is a major burden, especially for these medium-sized family businesses. in my view, most family businesses are smes and it is therefore essential that eu legislation is better adapted to the real circumstances and needs of these businesses. it is also important to enable them to benefit from support programmes and from reductions in bureaucratic costs. as a member of the hungarian people's party delegation, i voted in favour of angelika niebler's report on the initiative to support european family businesses.
in writing. ‒ as a member of the hungarian people's party delegation, i voted in favour of angelika niebler's report on her initiative on supporting european family businesses. the report draws attention to the fact that family farms have played a major role in the recovery of the european economy in the past and continue to play a major role in economic and social development, reducing unemployment, especially among young people, and investing in human capital. the report highlights, among other things, the importance of policies for family businesses, which can encourage entrepreneurship and motivate european families to start their own family businesses. it considers it a problem that many family businesses, which no longer fit the definition of an sme but are still far from being large companies, cannot benefit from certain aid schemes or be exempt from certain administrative obligations. this inevitably leads to unnecessary red tape, which is a major burden, especially for these medium-sized family businesses. it reminds the commission that the majority of family businesses are smes and that the 'think small first' principle is therefore essential to make eu legislation more relevant to the real circumstances and needs of these businesses. it is also important to enable them to benefit from support programmes and from reductions in bureaucratic costs. calls on the commission to examine whether all existing instruments to support smes and/or individual enterprises can be extended to medium-sized family businesses;
in writing. as a member of the hungarian people's party delegation, i voted in favour of angelika niebler's report on her initiative on support for european family businesses. the report draws attention to the fact that family farms have played a major role in the recovery of the european economy in the past and continue to play a major role in economic and social development, reducing unemployment - especially among young people - and investing in human capital. the report highlights, among other things, the importance of policies for family businesses, which can encourage entrepreneurship and motivate european families to start their own family businesses. it considers it a problem that many family businesses, which no longer fit the definition of an sme but are still far from being large companies, cannot benefit from certain aid schemes or be exempt from certain administrative obligations. this inevitably leads to unnecessary red tape, which is a major burden, especially for these medium-sized family businesses. it reminds the commission that the majority of family businesses are smes and that the 'think small first' principle is therefore essential to make eu legislation more relevant to the real circumstances and needs of these businesses. it is also important to enable them to benefit from support programmes and from reductions in bureaucratic costs. calls on the commission to examine whether all existing instruments to support smes and/or individual enterprises can be extended to medium-sized family businesses;
in writing. ‒ as a member of the hungarian people's party delegation, i voted in favour of angelika niebler's report on her initiative on supporting european family businesses. the report draws attention to the fact that family farms have played a major role in the recovery of the european economy in the past and continue to play a major role in economic and social development, reducing unemployment, especially among young people, and investing in human capital. the report highlights, among other things, the importance of policies for family businesses, which can encourage entrepreneurship and motivate european families to start their own family businesses. it considers it a problem that many family businesses, which no longer fit the definition of an sme but are still far from being large companies, cannot benefit from certain aid schemes or be exempt from certain administrative obligations. this inevitably leads to unnecessary red tape, which is a major burden, especially for these medium-sized family businesses. it reminds the commission that the majority of family businesses are smes and that the 'think small first' principle is therefore essential to make eu legislation more relevant to the real circumstances and needs of these businesses. it is also important to enable them to benefit from support programmes and from reductions in bureaucratic costs. calls on the commission to examine whether all existing instruments to support smes and/or individual enterprises can be extended to medium-sized family businesses;
in writing. ‒ as a member of the hungarian people's party delegation, i voted in favour of angelika niebler's report on her initiative on supporting european family businesses. the report draws attention to the fact that family farms have played a major role in the recovery of the european economy in the past and continue to play a major role in economic and social development, reducing unemployment - especially among young people - and investing in human capital. the report highlights, among other things, the importance of policies for family businesses, which can encourage entrepreneurship and motivate european families to start their own family businesses. it considers it a problem that many family businesses, which no longer fit the definition of an sme but are still far from being large companies, cannot benefit from certain support options or be exempt from certain administrative obligations. this inevitably leads to unnecessary red tape, which is a major burden, especially for these medium-sized family businesses. it reminds the commission that the majority of family businesses are smes and that the 'think small first' principle is therefore essential to make eu legislation more relevant to the real circumstances and needs of these businesses. it is also important to enable them to benefit from support programmes and from reductions in bureaucratic costs. calls on the commission to examine whether all existing instruments to support smes and/or individual enterprises can be extended to medium-sized family enterprises;
in writing. ‒ as regards the first priority, which is clearly to support jobs, growth and investment, i voted in favour of the report. statistics show that the eu's tighter economic and fiscal policies are already delivering results, with the european economy slowly emerging from the crisis. but i think europe has more to offer, and we haven't even exhausted our possibilities yet. it is important to create a favourable investment climate for our businesses and to improve the entrepreneurial spirit across the eu as a whole, and our family businesses in particular can play a crucial role in overcoming the financial and economic crisis and revitalising the economy. however, the concept of a family business, as defined by the european commission in 2009, is not legally binding and is not applied in individual member states. this means that many family businesses, which no longer fit the sme definition but are still far from large companies, are not able to benefit from certain aid opportunities or exempt from certain obligations. this inevitably leads to unnecessary red tape, which is a major burden, especially for family businesses. in addition, many family businesses are compulsorily trying to stay within the criteria set by the commission for smes. the consequences are clear: they do not hire new employees, they prevent the growth of profits and turnover, and thus automatically further growth. addressing these problems should be a priority.
in writing. ‒ as a member of the hungarian people's party delegation, i voted in favour of angelika niebler's report on her initiative on supporting european family businesses. the report draws attention to the fact that family farms have played a major role in the recovery of the european economy in the past and continue to play a major role in economic and social development, reducing unemployment, especially among young people, and investing in human capital. the report highlights, among other things, the importance of policies for family businesses, which can encourage entrepreneurship and motivate european families to start their own family businesses. it considers it a problem that many family businesses, which no longer fit the definition of an sme but are still far from being large companies, cannot benefit from certain support options or be exempt from certain administrative obligations. this inevitably leads to unnecessary red tape, which is a major burden, especially for these medium-sized family businesses. it reminds the commission that the majority of family businesses are smes and that the 'think small first' principle is therefore essential to make eu legislation more relevant to the real circumstances and needs of these businesses. it is also important to enable them to benefit from support programmes and from reductions in bureaucratic costs. calls on the commission to examine whether all existing instruments to support smes and/or individual enterprises can be extended to medium-sized family enterprises;
in writing. ‒ as a member of the hungarian people's party delegation, i voted in favour of angelika niebler's report on her initiative on supporting european family businesses. the report draws attention to the fact that family farms have played a major role in the recovery of the european economy in the past and continue to play a major role in economic and social development, reducing unemployment - especially among young people - and investing in human capital. the report highlights, among other things, the importance of policies for family businesses, which can encourage entrepreneurship and motivate european families to start their own family businesses. it considers it a problem that many family businesses, which no longer fit the definition of an sme but are still far from being large companies, cannot benefit from certain support options or be exempt from certain administrative obligations. this inevitably leads to unnecessary red tape, which is a major burden, especially for these medium-sized family businesses. it reminds the commission that the majority of family businesses are smes and that the 'think small first' principle is therefore essential to make eu legislation more relevant to the real circumstances and needs of these businesses. it is also important to enable them to benefit from support programmes and from reductions in bureaucratic costs. calls on the commission to examine whether all existing instruments to support smes and/or individual enterprises can be extended to medium-sized family enterprises;
in writing. ‒ the report notes that family businesses can play a crucial role in overcoming the financial and economic crisis and in revitalising the economy. in the european union, more than 60% of all businesses are family-owned, and in the private sector they provide some 40-50% of jobs. however, many family businesses no longer fit the sme definition, although they are far from large companies, and therefore cannot benefit from certain aid opportunities or be exempted from certain obligations. this inevitably leads to unnecessary red tape, which puts a heavy burden on family businesses. many family businesses therefore try to stay within the criteria set by the commission for smes; they do not hire new employees, they prevent profit and turnover from growing and therefore automatically further growth. the report therefore calls for the same attention to be paid to family businesses as was given to smes over the past decade.
in writing. ‒ the number one priority in the political guidelines outlined by the president of the european commission is to create jobs, boost growth and investments. the role of family businesses is growing in the small and medium-sized enterprise sector. the report shall address the analysis of specific, individual circumstances and make forward-looking recommendations. i voted for the initiative.
in writing. ‒ in europe, the blue economy employs 5.4 million people and generates almost €500 billion in gross value added per year. in times of economic crisis, it is crucial to seize every opportunity for growth and job creation. europe's seas not only provide an excellent basis for this, but their importance continues to grow in the face of our limited resources and the growing world population. europe's maritime economy covers a very wide range of sectors, from clean energy production to new sustainable industries, and is therefore vital to boosting europe's economy. as a member of the fidesz-kdnp delegation, i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. in europe, the blue economy employs 5.4 million people and generates almost €500 billion in gross value added per year. in times of economic crisis, it is crucial to seize every opportunity for growth and job creation. europe's seas not only provide an excellent basis for this, but their importance continues to grow in the face of our limited resources and the growing world population. europe's maritime economy covers a very wide range of sectors, from clean energy production to new sustainable industries, and is therefore vital to boosting europe's economy. as a member of the fidesz-kdnp delegation, i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ in europe, the blue economy employs 5.4 million people and generates almost €500 billion in gross value added per year. in times of economic crisis, it is crucial to seize every opportunity for growth and job creation. europe's seas not only provide an excellent basis for this, but their importance continues to grow in the face of our limited resources and the growing world population. europe's maritime economy covers a very wide range of sectors, from clean energy production to new sustainable industries, and is therefore vital to boosting europe's economy. as a member of the fidesz-kdnp delegation, i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ in europe, the blue economy employs 5.4 million people and generates almost €500 billion in gross value added per year. in times of economic crisis, it is crucial to seize every opportunity for growth and job creation. europe's seas not only provide an excellent basis for this, but their importance continues to grow in the face of our limited resources and the growing world population. europe's maritime economy covers a very wide range of sectors, from clean energy production to new sustainable industries, and is therefore vital to boosting europe's economy. as a member of the fidesz-kdnp delegation, i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ in europe, the blue economy employs 5.4 million people and generates almost €500 billion in gross value added per year. in times of economic crisis, it is crucial to seize every opportunity for growth and job creation. europe's seas not only provide an excellent basis for this, but their importance continues to grow in the face of our limited resources and the growing world population. europe's maritime economy covers a very wide range of sectors, from clean energy production to new sustainable industries, and is therefore vital to boosting europe's economy. as a member of the fidesz-kdnp delegation, i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ in europe, the blue economy employs 5.4 million people and generates almost €500 billion in gross value added per year. in times of economic crisis, it is crucial to seize every opportunity for growth and job creation. europe's seas not only provide an excellent basis for this, but their importance continues to grow in the face of our limited resources and the growing world population. europe's maritime economy covers a very wide range of sectors, from clean energy production to new sustainable industries, and is therefore vital to boosting europe's economy. as a member of the fidesz-kdnp delegation, i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report because the concept of the 'blue economy' covers a wide range of economic and environmental activities related to the seas, oceans and (partly) surface waters of the land. you might think that the main subject of this report is not hungary, but i have to say that it is very much: first of all, because of global climate protection, it does not matter what european strategies we define with regard to the seas and oceans, but there is also a further, tangible connection. the main elements of the report include fisheries, aquaculture, maritime and inland transport, ports and logistics, tourism and leisure shipping and navigation, shipbuilding and ship repair, maritime installations and structures for the protection of coastal zones, exploration and exploitation of mineral resources, offshore wind and marine energy, and biotechnology. so you can see that this is a complex problem. i agree with one of the demands in the report that the commission should take a more holistic approach to tackling the challenges of innovation and job creation in an integrated way. this requires analyses and strategies at regional level, both for marine and terrestrial areas with surface water catchment areas (e.g. the danube).
i am very much in favour of teaching young people and people in general entrepreneurial skills and the necessary - and otherwise necessary - financial skills as widely as possible. who would object to people being enlightened and responsible in their financial dealings? well, there are those who would object: the infinitely greedy banks and the profit-hungry banks. i want to make it clear to everyone that we don't have enough of these software tools to educate people about responsible financial behavior. they need strict prohibition laws. for example, in hungary, at the airport, when you get from the entrance to the airport, two or three bank employees throw themselves at you like hyenas and try to trick people who don't have financial knowledge into signing credit agreements. they're still doing it after the tragedy of the foreign exchange lenders. the only way to protect against this is through legislation, not education.
in writing. ‒ the european parliament adopted a comprehensive and high-quality report on promoting entrepreneurship among young people through education and training, presented by ms sojdrová, on the subject of c. the high rate of youth unemployment, which is 22% on average in the eu and exceeds 50% in some countries and regions, remains a pressing problem in the european union. one of the reasons for the high youth unemployment and the large number of unfilled jobs in the european union is the gap between education and training and the labour market, which must also be addressed by equipping young people with the key competences - including entrepreneurial skills - needed to become confident participants in today's knowledge-based economy and society. entrepreneurship education at all levels (primary, secondary and tertiary) is a very effective tool for motivating young people and for their decision-making and success in starting their own business and career. in today's europe, there is a great need for an approach that supports young people in such areas as their creativity, risk-taking, failure management and responsible behaviour. in line with the position of the fidesz-kdnp group, i voted in favour of the adoption of the report.
in writing. ‒ i welcome this report at a time when youth unemployment is at an historic high level in europe, because i believe that promoting an entrepreneurial mindset and fostering motivation could be extremely beneficial for our european youth. i am supportive of this document, which contains a set of important political priorities such as promoting better defined learning contents and tools for formal and non-formal education targeted at all students and promoting links between schools and enterprises in order to provide students with practical experience and models. both the commission and the members states have a big role to play in ensuring coherent and effective promotion and coordination in the area of entrepreneurship education in the context of the eu lifelong learning strategy and the juncker commission’s plan.
in writing. ‒ the report addresses the entrepreneurship skills of young people and related entrepreneurship education as one of the topics chosen by the european parliament to be given greater prominence due to their importance and low recognition, and on which it proposes further action. it summarises current activities in the field of enterprise education and points out the objectives of education and the need for education to focus on practical application and the employment of young people. socio-economic data show that the social and economic situation of eu citizens has not improved significantly. the main problem in this respect is the high rate of youth unemployment, which is 22% on average in the eu and exceeds 50% in some countries and regions. employment and growth are a key priority of european policy and one of the objectives of the member states. in general, education is seen as a key means of meeting the individual needs of citizens and as a way of improving their situation. i fully support the strategic objectives of: 1. achieving lifelong learning and mobility; 2. improving the quality and efficiency of education and training; 3. promoting equality, social cohesion and active citizenship; 4. encouraging creativity and innovation, including entrepreneurship, at all levels of education and training.
in writing. ‒ according to current socioeconomic data, the social and economic situation of eu citizens has not improved significantly. the main problem in this respect is the high rate of youth unemployment, which is 22% on average in the eu and exceeds 50% in some countries and regions. employment and growth are a key priority of european policy and one of the objectives of the member states. in general, education is seen as a key means of meeting the individual needs of citizens and as a way of improving their situation. entrepreneurship education at all levels offers a very effective tool to motivate young people and to help them make the decision to start their own business and career and to succeed in this career. europe needs an approach that supports young people in areas such as their creativity, risk-taking, failure management and responsible behaviour. the report summarises current activities in the field of enterprise education and highlights the objectives of education and the need for education to focus on practical application and the employment of young people. it focuses on proposals and recommendations for the further development of business education and on support from the european commission, the council and the member states.
in writing. ‒ i voted for the report. although the number of young unemployed people is diminishing, 4.85 million is still too high, especially when we see the large number of unfilled vacancies across the union. serious changes are needed in our education and training systems to better connect with the demands of the job market. we hear all the time that small and medium-sized enterprises are the backbones of the european economy, they create the most jobs and have a crucial role in strengthening european competitiveness, and yet still no entrepreneurship skills are taught in most of our secondary schools. eu initiatives in this field are very welcome, but as the report also pointed out, education policy is the exclusive competence of the member states. therefore, it is their responsibility not only to simplify the regulatory framework for entrepreneurs but also to prepare students with the necessary practical skills. this is the way towards having a strong sme sector that is in fact the driving force of the european economy. moreover, europe needs to prepare its youth to create innovative and viable enterprises with solid knowledge and business plans behind them.
in writing. ‒ it summarises very important initiatives to support young entrepreneurs. it considers that a systematic description of key competences is necessary at all levels of education. the report aims to coordinate and make effective use of existing eu programmes. i voted in favour of the proposed text.
in writing. ‒ cultural heritage is one of the pillars of european culture and our common heritage for future generations, and its main value derives from its cultural value. an integrated approach to cultural heritage is needed if cultural dialogue and mutual understanding are to be achieved. such an approach can lead to increased economic, social and territorial cohesion, while contributing to the achievement of the objectives set out in the europe 2020 strategy. cultural heritage contributes to the creation of new innovative jobs, products, services and processes and can also be a source of creative ideas, thereby fuelling the economy. the european parliament therefore calls for the mid-term review of the strategy to give greater weight to the role of european cultural heritage as a strategic resource for smart, sustainable and inclusive growth. in line with the position of the fidesz-kdnp group, i voted in favour of the adoption of the report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because i am firm believer that preserving and promoting our cultural heritage is an important part of our political and institutional activity. both the commission and the council indicated the need to have an integrated approach towards the domain of cultural heritage, and consequently it is important to enhance the cooperation and coordination among themselves in this area. this report calls for setting up of a single eu portal dedicated to cultural heritage as well as a better involvement of local communities and the private sector in the preservation and promotion activities related to cultural heritage. i see this as an opportunity especially for those national minorities, such the hungarian minority in romania and slovakia, to help them protect and preserve their traditions, culture and language.
in writing. ‒ in line with the report, i believe that an integrated approach to cultural heritage is needed, as it is a well-known fact at the level of the european institutions that cultural heritage issues are the responsibility of several directorates-general of the european commission at the same time. their work is therefore complementary and it is therefore vital that they enhance cooperation between them in this field and coordinate their activities concerning cultural heritage. in addition, european funding for cultural heritage has been provided under several eu programmes. some of these are creative europe, horizon 2020, the european fund for rural development, the european agricultural fund for rural development, etc. the information on these funding opportunities is available, but it is scattered across numerous websites, written in strong technical jargon, and translations are available in only a few official languages of the european union. it is therefore important to communicate information more effectively to potential beneficiaries. the european year of cultural heritage could be the perfect expression of the union's renewed commitment to this cultural heritage. with the right planning, such an initiative could give a big boost to the cultural heritage sector and highlight the huge potential it holds. i welcome the fact that the report also makes specific recommendations on the training, skills and knowledge and mobility of cultural heritage professionals and on the access of such young professionals to the cultural labour market.
in writing. ‒ the report deals with tangible, intangible and digital cultural heritage. it stresses that cultural heritage issues fall within the competence of several european commission directorates-general at the same time and urges their cooperation and coordination of their activities concerning cultural heritage. it also points out that european funding for cultural heritage is also provided under several eu programmes, information on funding opportunities is scattered across numerous websites, written in strong technical jargon, and translations exist only in a few official languages of the european union. the report therefore calls for the creation of a single eu portal dedicated to cultural heritage, which would bring together all the information on all eu programmes supporting cultural heritage in one place. it points out that the european year of cultural heritage could be the perfect expression of the renewed commitment of the union to this cultural heritage, and that the initiative could give a major boost to the cultural heritage sector and highlight the enormous potential it holds. it considers that, in order to achieve a meaningful result, the european year of cultural heritage should be adequately budgeted and the activities organised within it should be accompanied by a large number of actions at member state level.
in writing. ‒ i agree with the rapporteur that i object to the points in the commission's reply which do not provide a guarantee to exclude water and sanitation services from trade agreements such as the transatlantic trade and investment partnership and that there are no guarantees to prevent further liberalisation of water and sanitation services. in my view, the uniqueness of water and the natural monopoly of water supply, and its indispensable nature for human life and health, justify the concerns raised by the growing trend in europe towards the re-nationalization of water services. the natural monopoly on water supply means that the vast majority of water suppliers are water service providers both in europe and worldwide, which means that considerable expertise and experience can be relied upon. we need to keep this practice in mind.
in writing. ‒ the european citizens' initiative has been in existence since 1 april 2012 as a new mechanism for participatory democracy. such an initiative requires at least one million signatures from at least seven member states. the european citizens' initiative right2water had over 1.6 million verified signatures at the time of its submission and has since gained over 300 000 new signatures. it managed to get signatures from all member states (of which 13 reached their quota), making it the first successful european citizens' initiative. its main objectives are: • to oblige the eu institutions and the member states to ensure that the right to water and adequate sanitation is extended to the whole population;• to exclude water supply and water management from the scope of internal market rules and to exclude water services from liberalisation;• to intensify the union's efforts to achieve universal access to water and adequate sanitation. jean-claude juncker, the commission president-elect who ultimately won the european elections in may 2014, publicly supported the right2water european citizens' initiative. the european commission published its formal response to the initiative in march 2014, stating: • water is not a commodity;• the provision of water services is normally the responsibility of local authorities, as they are closest to citizens;• water and sanitation services should be excluded from the concession directive.
in writing. ‒ european citizens can ask the commission to submit draft legislation. this could be done in the framework of a so-called european citizens' initiative, but of course only in those areas where the commission has the power to do so. the initiative must be signed by at least one million people, representing at least one quarter of the member states of the union. the citizens' initiative 'right2water' is the first example of the use of this new democratic tool. i agree with the rapporteur that the ownership and provision of water services is clearly a matter of concern to europeans and that this interest cannot be ignored. i agree with the substance of the report, which is why i voted in favour of it. the report calls on the commission to prepare a legislative proposal together with, if necessary, a possible revision of the water framework directive and the drinking water directive which would recognise universal access to water as a human right. the report stresses the obligation of member states to ensure access to water for all, regardless of the provider. in addition, member states should ensure that service providers provide safe drinking water and better hygiene conditions. i also agree that the provision, distribution and treatment of water and sanitation services should continue to be excluded from the concession directive, even in its future revision. it is also important to note that water and sanitation services should be excluded from any trade agreements that the union is negotiating or intends to negotiate.
you began your remarks by saying that the debate was timely. although he's not listening to me, he's busy with his phone, i'm telling you, this discussion is not timely, we are extremely late! right now, we're pretending to do something, but instead of solving the problem, we're making it worse. this is fundamentally the wrong solution. as for the report, i'm afraid it's not timely. none of his numbers are timely. it's been overshadowed by the large number of refugees. the description of the situation is neither timely nor does it mention hungary, even though my country has the largest refugee influx in proportion to its population. what does this report suggest? it is a quota of migrants who would move freely within the internal borders of the european union. they wouldn't stop where we send them, even if we wanted to send them to a good place, because they could always change their original intention to where they want to live. i don't think that's the right solution. the correct solution, my fellow members, is that we have at one time passed a regulation, and that regulation is currently in force. it is our duty to uphold and enforce this decree. if it does not work, as many have said, then let us propose to amend this regulation. but as long as the decree exists, it must be obeyed. and our borders, my fellow congressmen, must be protected. there is no other option, because then schengen and the security of the european union are in danger. the problem is rooted in the root causes, which are outside the european union.
i've heard some amazing things here in the last hour, but i'd rather return to the report itself, this excellent report, and thank mrs. keller for her work. i would like to say that the libe committee has very broad support for this report, which shows that what we are discussing here is not a matter of political affiliation, but that our common european values require us to offer safer and more humane opportunities to those who are saving their lives. a mechanism is needed to ensure solidarity not only with refugees but also between member states. i think it is particularly important that the report makes it clear that we see the current solution as just a first step and that we believe that a permanent and binding procedure for the redistribution of refugees should be established. it is also clear that not only hungary, greece and italy need help, but all countries in need. i think that parliament is sending a very clear signal with this report, supporting a more effective, stronger and common european refugee policy. and i think it is now up to the leaders of the member states to finally recognize, after so much hesitation, the shared responsibility. if they do not recognise this responsibility, they are turning away from the european union's founding principles, they are turning against them.
one of the key elements of the so-called psychological abuse, psychological terrorism phenomenon, is that one party forces the other party into a constant state of guilt and remorse without clearly stating what is wrong and what are the expectations, what are the rules. we hungarians are now in this position with regard to the european union, or against it. we want to know what they expect from us, what they want. if the commissioner could just pay attention, i would ask him - and mrs keller, the rapporteur, for that matter - to inform hungary and the 500 million citizens of the european union that the problem is that we are trying to protect the external borders of the european union. so you expect us to give up all defenses? be clear about the expectations, be clear about what you want from hungary.
mr president, my dear officer, ladies and gentlemen, the european commission's cohesion reports are milestones in the history of cohesion policy. this is no different with the sixth cohesion report, which examines the union's regional development policy in the light of the devastating economic and financial crisis and links it closely to the achievement of the europe 2020 objectives. cohesion policy is the union's number one investment policy, the most monitored and evaluated spending area of the eu budget, with a budget of over €350 billion for the period 2014-2020. its effectiveness, its indispensable nature, is particularly evident in crisis situations. cohesion policy can offer a real and immediate solution, even in emergency situations, to growth and job creation. in the light of all this, i would like to stress at the outset that cohesion policy must continue to play an important role beyond 2020 and that economic integration and solidarity cannot be abandoned within the union. my report placed a strong emphasis on the need to put an end to recurrent liquidity problems in regional development policy. we have to settle a very large payment arrears. by the end of 2014, a payment backlog of eur 24,8 billion had accumulated, undermining the effectiveness, credibility and sustainability of cohesion policy. the second idea, which was emphasised in my report, is to reinforce the original role of cohesion policy. the objective of cohesion policy, as defined in the treaty, is to promote economic, social and territorial cohesion in all regions of the union, with particular regard to the less developed regions. understandably, the objectives of cohesion policy have evolved over time and the policy has become increasingly linked to the union's current strategy. however, i believe it is important to give greater emphasis to the original objective of cohesion policy, namely to reduce development disparities, and to ensure that the contribution to the union's current overall strategy remains compatible with the reduction of regional disparities. the third idea i highlighted in my report is the future of cohesion policy. the year 2019 will be a pivotal one, with a newly elected parliament and a new commission to tackle the final tasks of the europe 2020 strategy, the development of the new multiannual financial framework and the establishment of the post-2020 cohesion policy framework. the debate on the future of cohesion policy must therefore start now. in addition to the three main points, i would like to briefly mention a few key aspects which have received particular attention in my report. i consider it important to take measures to ensure efficiency, simplification and results orientation. i would like to stress the importance of simplification, since a large part of the irregularities stem from non-transparent standards and requirements. reducing the administrative burden on beneficiaries would be a huge step towards increasing efficiency. the results orientation is reinforced by thematic concentration, but the concretisation of objectives also requires the maintenance of sufficient flexibility to provide tailor-made responses to the needs and problems of the regions. my report focuses on the issue of unemployment, in particular youth unemployment and the capacity of smes to create jobs. finally, i believe that the territorial dimension has received little attention in the sixth cohesion report, despite the fact that it is an essential tool for strengthening economic, territorial and social cohesion. ladies and gentlemen, in preparing my report, i have had the opportunity to work very constructively with the shadow rapporteurs of the other groups, with the members who tabled the amendments. i would like to thank you for that cooperation here and now. the sixth cohesion report is a great opportunity to give new impetus to the eu's cohesion policy and to highlight its effectiveness and usefulness. i would like to reiterate that the eu cohesion policy must continue to play an important role beyond 2020 and that the eu budgetary resources for the policy cannot be reduced. only a well-funded cohesion policy can ensure that the eu's solidarity is upheld, that less developed regions are included, that new jobs are created and that the economy is developed. i thank you for your kind attention and look forward to your comments.
it's a two-card draw. the honourable member has rightly indicated how much effort we need to make here to strengthen cohesion. among other things, he stressed that the issue of climate change and energy dependence should also be addressed, as discussed in this report. i respectfully ask you if a government - particularly in the country of the rapporteur, mr deutsch - would impose special taxes on environmentally friendly technologies, how compatible would you consider this to be with the desired objectives?
the rapporteur. first of all, i would like to thank all the speakers for their valuable thoughts that have enriched the discussion. nearly a year of work ends with tomorrow's vote, it was a joint effort, the result is a joint effort. when the european commission produced its sixth cohesion report, it was the opinion of the profession that it had put a valuable document on the table of the european parliament. without wishing to praise the european parliament and my colleagues too highly, this joint work has produced a better parliamentary report than the european commission's. this parliamentary report, which is fully agreed by the political groups, has shown the results of cohesion policy, has shown the serious problems of cohesion policy and has clearly shown what needs to be done. and so the most important takeaway from this conversation today is that it's time to act. we must not talk about these issues now, but the commission must act, the governments of the member states must act, the regional and local decision-makers must act. and obviously the point of this action is to allocate cohesion resources to useful local development as quickly as possible, with as little red tape as possible, to the greatest extent possible. of course, we in the european parliament, the committee on regional development, the members of parliament, must also act. we must act in order to do our job, to monitor the work of the european commission, to encourage action as quickly and as effectively as possible. we will complete our legislative work to further support the effectiveness of cohesion policy, the mid-term review of the seven-year budgetary cycle and the preparation of cohesion policy beyond 2020. ladies and gentlemen, i hope that this consensus, this joint work, will be reflected in the vote.
in writing. i was disappointed to find that my colleague mr deutsch's report on eu development policy 2007-2013 made no mention of the orbán government's public procurement system, systemic overburdening, government abuse and suspected corruption. today, without the european union, nothing would be built in hungary, 95% of public investments are made from eu funds. while the hungarian government is holding its own, the government is enriching oligarchs close to it, blaming brussels for all its blunders. while six of hungary's seven regions are disadvantaged, some of the prime minister's family members are winning billions in public procurement, for example, to upgrade public lighting. under the orbán government, hungary is not developing because the eu's bailout funds are simply not reaching the hungarian people, the hungarian businesses. the hungarian government recently announced that it would spend the next seven years of eu funds by 2017, in just two years. fidesz would thus admittedly run for the 2018 elections by distributing eu funds.
it's a two-card draw. the honourable member has indeed very, very well outlined the problems, the tasks to be carried out and the results achieved to a certain extent in this matter. but let me ask you, would you, or your party in a broader sense, be able to identify with the idea of putting all this together and creating a real european charter on the weather?
in writing. i welcome the report of my colleague, mr de camp, on his own initiative on the implementation of the 2011 white paper on transport. i believe that an interim review of the white paper is necessary, as the long-term objectives that we set in 2011 and in many cases extend to 2050 do not always meet the challenges of today. the purpose of the mid-term review is not to reduce the ambitious targets we set in 2011, but to strengthen the commitment to reach them. i agree with the rapporteur that it is very important not to talk about transport as such but about sustainable mobility, within which we can reduce europe's dependence on oil, grow the economy, protect our environment, create new jobs, reduce congestion in our cities. this will help to create a more livable and enjoyable environment around us. this requires better use of rail and water transport, but also the use of trucks for freight transport. i am pleased that, on my initiative, one point in the report highlights the need to pay particular attention to supporting projects to link the trans-european transport network with the infrastructure networks of neighbouring and candidate countries. it is important to take account of future enlargement processes now. that is why i support this report.
mr president, i want to say something about the words ‘patriots unite!’ my first impulse was to write, and to say, ‘patriots of hungary unite!’ because i am deeply worried about my own homeland. then i wanted to write ‘patriots of europe unite!’ because i know that many patriots around europe feel the same way. finally, i realised that there are patriots not only in the receiving and transit countries of migration but also in the countries of origin – in african countries and in the poor asian countries. we all have the same dream: to live in our homeland, to work for our homeland in peace, and to keep our roots and our culture’s traditions. let us unite, let us start thinking and working together for our common dream and let us make the world a better place.
ladies and gentlemen! europe has always been driven by continuous change and adaptation to a changing world. the current refugee crisis has created a situation where we can either change and emerge stronger and more united from the current situation, or we can retreat, sell our core principles, our values, but we can also sell our future. we can no longer tolerate people who need support because of bad compromises, outdated rules and calculating political leaders walking on highways, sleeping in train stations waiting for trains that never leave, working in ports and becoming victims of human traffickers. the commission's new initiatives to extend the redistribution system are important, but they are only the beginning. we have a great responsibility, and we have no more time to waste. our job is to make it clear that more european solidarity can be counted on, and that europe is itself in solidarity with refugees. this is the moral foundation on which the union and european culture are built.
in writing. the refugee crisis is one of the biggest challenges the eu has ever faced, and the state of the union now determines its future. i therefore welcome the determination of the president of the commission to put the member states' solidarity into action by means of concrete measures and proposals for solutions. i would like to draw attention to the fact that the challenge to the unity of the eu is not only external but also internal: some member states, especially the orbán government, are exploiting the wave of migration through xenophobic propaganda and measures that humiliate refugees and restrict the rights of their own population for their own internal political purposes, in an anti-european, demagogic nationalist way. such political aspirations, which threaten to fragment europe and to halt its democratic development, must be stopped. in this regard, the european council and orbán's party family, the epp, have the primary responsibility, and i urge them to act with the same determination as the president of the commission.
i asked to speak as a hungarian, to speak as a european in this historic debate. as one of the 500 million europeans who are worried about their children and the future of europe, i was more worried about the safety of my children from the politicians who were among us, showing political aggression before the world war, than from the syrian child who came to us with his parents before the war. that is why i have today restored my faith in the european commission, which is finally showing its ability to act, and i expect the prime ministers to stand in line and support the common solution. juncker, timmermans and the debates in the s&ds have all shown me that we need a more proactive europe. terrible images have come from hungary, governmental impotence, incitement, inhumanity, but you must know that hungary is not equal to viktor orbán. in hungary, thousands of people worked, tens of thousands of civilian volunteers, to help us take care of the refugees. our friends are there now, working for the government. i thank them from here and i would like to point out that viktor orbán and his politics are not the solution, but the problem itself.
mr president, officer, colleagues! the desire to help is in all of us. so is compassion. it is human, but to help those who really need it, we must first take control of the situation at the union's external borders. our primary task is to protect europe's external borders. i am in need of responsible, consistent answers to the fundamental questions here today, because if we do not do these things, our whole schengen system will collapse. is the schengen legislation on the protection of external borders, the conditions for entry into the schengen area, movement within the schengen area and return to the member state of entry still in force today? because if they are valid, it cannot be argued, say, under the pressure of the media mood, that hungary is trying to comply with the valid eu rules that we have brought here and protect the external borders of the union so that asylum seekers can come through the entry points. most of the people who want to be inside the union today... (the president withdrew)
i fully agree with my colleague, mr gál kinga, and i ask, indeed demand, that this important debate and this plenary session not end without you, mr commissioner, giving a definite answer as to whether hungary is complying with the binding eu standards or not. look into the eyes of 10 or 15 million hungarians at least through the monitors and look into the eyes of 500 million europeans. do we have to protect europe's borders or not, can we protect them or not? let me inform you that mrs. merkel and the european union have issued an invitation to these people. they think they have the right to enter germany, and every law, every police action, prevents them from doing so. they're upset, they refuse to go to a detention center, they refuse to give fingerprints, they refuse to comply with the law. so what do we do now?
in writing. putting immigration on the agenda and criticizing the current european model is not a partisan issue, as the left often says, but a common european interest, and we need to find a solution to this burning issue very quickly. but what does the european commission propose? it would train quota migrants who would be able to move freely within the internal market of the union. so they would presumably be going back to the member states where they want to live again and again, and so the whole mandatory quota system would fail every day, with every single migrant they'd take back. and that is what the last few days and weeks have shown us, what migrants can do when they don't get what they want from europe. the whole story is going to be a daily, tens of thousands of ping-pong games between migrants and authorities and states, blocking everything and everyone. hungary's position is clear that political refugees should be granted protection. our government will meet all its international obligations. through the european strategy on migration and the european security strategy, we need to take decisive steps to improve migration management, strengthen cooperation and make europe safer for its citizens in the face of organised crime and terrorism. national programmes approved by the commission can provide member states with significant financial support to address these challenges, but only if they are of adequate scale.
in writing. there is a humanitarian crisis in europe: people fleeing war for their lives, freezing and starving, including in hungary. what is needed is not only a long-term and workable solution but also swift, humane action. all possible moral and financial support should be given to the host organisations, without compromising their political and other commitments. we must also combat all the incitement and exclusion that have been the cause of so many human catastrophes throughout history. i would like to thank the hungarian and european citizens for the selfless help they have given in times of trouble, often alongside the organisations called upon to do so and sometimes, as in my own country, on their behalf. in the present situation it is unacceptable that some governments are impotent or hostile and do not want to participate in the common european solution. a common european refugee policy and a comprehensive integration system are needed. an automatic distribution system should be established between member states, taking account of the needs of asylum seekers to a great extent. and in the long run, we need to create a legal and safe path for people fleeing war to reach europe. now is the moment for europe to put aside its selfishness, its political differences, and to act as one for refugees before the coming winter puts refugees who have faith in european values, and who rightly fear for their lives, in an even more precarious position.
in writing. the current situation of the european union is characterised by, among other things, a faulty policy in dealing with the influx of migrants, by impotence, paralysis and self-abandonment. the eu's immigration policy has collapsed. while the international community is unable to come together and take action, the islamic state and other enemies of europe can be quite satisfied with the current and escalating state of migration. europe's values, culture, identity and future are at stake. the union should first and foremost protect its own law-abiding citizens and indigenous national communities, not facilitate the invasion of border and illegal economic squatters. it is true that we should help the persecuted. but the christian command to welcome does not apply to those who threaten the very existence of our christian continent. hungary is facing many unfounded accusations and unjust attacks in these times of crisis. not only does it have to cope with the daily onslaught of tens of thousands of people coming through the balkans, but it also has to deal with the backlash of the european left-liberals and with its internal enemies who are trying to destabilise the country. we cannot have all the dissatisfied people in syria and the world migrating to europe. in the long run, it's not going to help them, it's going to hurt us all. we want germany to remain germany, estonia to remain estonia, hungary to remain hungary, and europe to remain europe. i am proud that hungary is standing up not only for its own people, but for the whole of europe.
in writing. ‒ decision on the internal organisation of the european parliament. i voted for the motion.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the proposal because it reflects the best practice followed by the european external action service, among others, and the change in the status of the palestinian territories in the un. at the same time, i consider the change to be of a purely technical, practical nature. in my view, it does not in any way represent or represent the full legal recognition of palestinian statehood by the eu, which in my view can only take place in the context of a comprehensive middle east settlement, if appropriate conditions are met.
in writing. ‒ in accordance with the guidelines of the european people's party, i voted in favour of the adoption of the protocol amending the fisheries partnership agreement between the european union and guinea-bissau. the report on the new protocol also clearly shows that the european union will have to limit its sea fishing to the extent necessary to maintain marine fish stocks. 30% of the world's oceans are overfished, and marine fish stocks are in danger. the reasoned measures taken to maintain them have led to a continuous and significant decline in the amount of marine fish caught. the cfp should therefore pay much more attention to sustainable fisheries, i.e. aquaculture, and in particular freshwater fisheries. a significant part of the hungarian wetlands is located in natura 2000 areas. these fish farms do not represent any threat to the natural values of these areas. in fact, in many cases it is our closed systems of wetlands that have created and preserved unique associations of aquatic habitats. therefore, freshwater aquaculture should be given priority and maximum support from the union. moreover, this area should be freed from unnecessarily stringent and unnecessary sustainability standards that are justified only for marine fisheries.
in writing. ‒ in my view, the fisheries agreement with guinea-bissau is even more important, and may even be considered the most important of the agreements currently in force. i regret that the abolition of unilateral tariff concessions and the entry into force of the so-called economic partnership agreements impose severe restrictions and may entail serious risks and dangers for the country. i agree with the rapporteur that it is important for parliament to give its consent to the conclusion of this protocol, given its serious importance both for guinea-bissau and for the eu fleets operating in its waters. furthermore, the agreement and its background and future prospects need to be assessed and considered in more detail, as the first fisheries agreement between the eu and guinea-bissau was signed 35 years ago and the progress achieved in sectoral cooperation is very modest. this needs to be changed urgently. the agreement should promote the genuine sustainable development of the guinean fishing industry and related industries and activities, increasing the added value resulting from the exploitation of the country's natural resources.
in writing. ‒ the fisheries agreement between the eec and guinea-bissau, which has been in force since 1980, is considered the most important of the agreements currently in force. on 10 february 2012, the parties agreed on a new implementing protocol covering the period from 16 june 2012 to 15 june 2015. following the military coup d'état in the republic of guinea-bissau on 12 april 2012, the union has suspended the procedures for the signature of the protocol. however, elections were held in may 2014 and the new implementation protocol to the eu-guinea fisheries agreement was finally signed on 24 november 2014. the protocol is of major importance both for guinea-bissau and for the eu fleets operating in its waters. i supported the recommendation.
in writing. ‒ in accordance with the guidelines of the european people's party, i voted in favour of the adoption of the protocol amending the fisheries partnership agreement between the european union and guinea-bissau. the report on the new protocol also clearly shows that the european union will have to limit its sea fishing to the extent necessary to maintain marine fish stocks. 30% of the world's oceans are overfished, and marine fish stocks are in danger. the reasoned measures taken to maintain them have led to a continuous and significant decline in the amount of marine fish caught. the cfp should therefore pay much more attention to sustainable fisheries, i.e. aquaculture, and in particular freshwater fisheries. a significant part of the hungarian wetlands is located in natura 2000 areas. these fish farms do not represent any threat to the natural values of these areas. in fact, in many cases it is our closed systems of wetlands that have created and preserved unique associations of aquatic habitats. therefore, freshwater aquaculture should be given priority and maximum support from the union. moreover, this area should be freed from unnecessarily stringent and unnecessary sustainability standards that are justified only for marine fisheries.
in writing. ‒ in my view, the fisheries agreement with guinea-bissau is even more important, and may even be considered the most important of the agreements currently in force. i regret that the abolition of unilateral tariff concessions and the entry into force of the so-called economic partnership agreements impose severe restrictions and may entail serious risks and dangers for the country. i agree with the rapporteur that it is important for parliament to give its consent to the conclusion of this protocol, given its serious importance both for guinea-bissau and for the eu fleets operating in its waters. furthermore, the agreement and its background and future prospects need to be assessed and considered in more detail, as the first fisheries agreement between the eu and guinea-bissau was signed 35 years ago and the progress achieved in sectoral cooperation is very modest. this needs to be changed urgently. the agreement should promote the genuine sustainable development of the guinean fishing industry and related industries and activities, increasing the added value resulting from the exploitation of the country's natural resources.
in writing. ‒ the fisheries agreement between the eec and guinea-bissau, which has been in force since 1980, is considered the most important of the agreements currently in force. on 10 february 2012, the parties agreed on a new implementing protocol covering the period from 16 june 2012 to 15 june 2015. following the military coup d'état in the republic of guinea-bissau on 12 april 2012, the union has suspended the procedures for the signature of the protocol. however, elections were held in may 2014 and the new implementation protocol to the eu-guinea fisheries agreement was finally signed on 24 november 2014. in his report, the rapporteur points out that the results achieved so far in sectoral cooperation are insufficient and calls on the commission to take all necessary steps to reverse the trends observed over the past decades. i supported the report.
in writing. ‒ in accordance with the guidelines of the european people's party, i voted in favour of the adoption of the protocol amending the fisheries partnership agreement between the european union and the republic of cape verde. the report on the new protocol also clearly shows that the european union will have to limit its sea fishing to the extent necessary to maintain marine fish stocks. 30% of the world's oceans are overfished, and marine fish stocks are in danger. the reasoned measures taken to maintain them have led to a continuous and significant decline in the amount of marine fish caught. the cfp should therefore pay much more attention to sustainable fisheries, i.e. aquaculture, and in particular freshwater fisheries. a significant part of the hungarian wetlands is located in natura 2000 areas. these fish farms do not represent any threat to the natural values of these areas. in fact, in many cases it is our closed systems of wetlands that have created and preserved unique associations of aquatic habitats. therefore, freshwater aquaculture should be given priority and maximum support from the union. moreover, this area should be freed from unnecessarily stringent and unnecessary sustainability standards that are justified only for marine fisheries.
in writing. ‒ given the opportunities for the cape verdean economy to exploit better the available stocks, based on the principles of sustainable fishing and best practice in the sector, i believe that the new agreement and protocol are in the interests of both parties. i regret, however, that the implementation of the sectoral aid is delayed. the implementation level is satisfactory, but it is difficult to assess the impact of european sectoral support compared to sectoral programmes initiated by other development partners, in particular with regard to the activities of the west african regional fisheries programme (warfp cv, financed by the world bank) in cape verde.
in writing. ‒ the european union and the republic of cape verde have had a fisheries partnership agreement in force since 1990. a new draft protocol was signed by the parties on 28 august 2014. the rapporteur considers that certain new elements of the new agreement and protocol are promising and necessary, that the agreement and protocol are in the interests of both parties, and therefore proposes that the ep give its consent. the report calls for closer parliamentary scrutiny of the implementation of the agreement and calls on the commission to provide the necessary information. i supported both the report and the recommendation.
in writing. ‒ in accordance with the guidelines of the european people's party, i voted in favour of the adoption of the protocol amending the fisheries partnership agreement between the european union and the republic of cape verde. the report on the new protocol also clearly shows that the european union will have to limit its sea fishing to the extent necessary to maintain marine fish stocks. 30% of the world's oceans are overfished, and marine fish stocks are in danger. the reasoned measures taken to maintain them have led to a continuous and significant decline in the amount of marine fish caught. the cfp should therefore pay much more attention to sustainable fisheries, i.e. aquaculture, and in particular freshwater fisheries. a significant part of the hungarian wetlands is located in natura 2000 areas. these fish farms do not represent any threat to the natural values of these areas. in fact, in many cases it is our closed systems of wetlands that have created and preserved unique associations of aquatic habitats. therefore, freshwater aquaculture should be given priority and maximum support from the union. moreover, this area should be freed from unnecessarily stringent and unnecessary sustainability standards that are justified only for marine fisheries.
in writing. ‒ given that the overall objective of the protocol is to strengthen cooperation between the european union and the republic of cape verde with a view to establishing a framework of partnership in the mutual interest of both parties, which will allow the development of a sustainable fisheries policy and the responsible exploitation of fisheries resources in the fishing zone of the republic of cape verde, i support the report. the protocol establishes a strict monitoring system to ensure that sustainable resource exploitation is a top priority for both parties. i welcome, from both an environmental and a socio-economic point of view, this new fisheries protocol between the european union and the republic of cape verde, which has been adopted in line with the measures relating to sustainability in the new common fisheries policy.
in writing. ‒ the european union and the republic of cape verde have had a fisheries partnership agreement in force since 1990. a new draft protocol was signed by the parties on 28 august 2014. the rapporteur considers that certain new elements of the new agreement and protocol are promising and necessary, that the agreement and protocol are in the interests of both parties, and therefore proposes that the ep give its consent. the report calls for closer parliamentary scrutiny of the implementation of the agreement and calls on the commission to provide the necessary information. i supported both the report and the recommendation.
in writing. in accordance with the guidelines of the european people's party, i have voted in favour of the adoption of the protocol amending the fisheries partnership agreement between the european community and the republic of madagascar. the report on the new protocol also clearly shows that the european union will have to limit its sea fishing to the extent necessary to maintain marine fish stocks. 30% of the world's oceans are overfished, and marine fish stocks are in danger. the reasoned measures taken to maintain them have led to a continuous and significant decline in the amount of marine fish caught. the cfp should therefore pay much more attention to sustainable fisheries, i.e. aquaculture, and in particular freshwater fisheries. a significant part of the hungarian wetlands is located in natura 2000 areas. these fish farms do not represent any threat to the natural values of these areas. in fact, in many cases it is our closed systems of wetlands that have created and preserved unique associations of aquatic habitats. therefore, freshwater aquaculture should be given priority and maximum support from the union. moreover, this area should be freed from unnecessarily stringent and unnecessary sustainability standards that are justified only for marine fisheries.
in writing. ‒ the proposed fisheries partnership agreement offers fishing opportunities to 94 fishing vessels, with a catch of 15 750 tonnes in the waters of the exclusive economic zone of the republic of madagascar. in compensation for the use of the fishing grounds, the european union will finance the malagasy fishing industry with eur 700 000 per year and will provide a general contribution of approximately eur 866 250 for the first two years of the agreement and eur 787 500 for the second two years. the agreement provides for a contribution from the european union to the republic of madagascar totalling eur 6 107 500 for the four-year period of the current partnership agreement. the rapporteur recommends adopting the proposal, but sees the potential for further development of the fisheries partnerships to come, and makes proposals to this effect. i supported the motion.
in writing. ‒ the marrakesh convention aims to simplify the customs treatment of goods and thus trade worldwide, which requires close cooperation between the customs authorities of the individual states parties. the convention is expected to bring significant economic benefits, in particular for developing countries and least developed countries. measures to facilitate trade can also bring significant relief to smes. the agreement also has the capacity to recognise, in an innovative way, the different enforcement capacities of different nations by inviting developing and least developed countries to determine when specific provisions of the agreement will be applied and by linking the implementation of some rules to assistance provided by developed nations. that's why i voted for the motion.
in writing. ‒ the marrakesh agreement aims to simplify the customs treatment of goods and thus trade worldwide, which requires close cooperation between the customs authorities of the individual states parties. the convention is expected to bring significant economic benefits, in particular for developing countries and least developed countries. measures to facilitate trade can also bring significant relief to smes. the agreement also has the capacity to recognise, in an innovative way, the different enforcement capacities of different nations by inviting developing and least developed countries to determine when specific provisions of the agreement will be applied and by linking the implementation of some rules to assistance provided by developed nations. that's why i voted for the motion.
in writing. ‒ the marrakesh agreement aims to simplify the customs treatment of goods and thus trade worldwide, which requires close cooperation between the customs authorities of the individual states parties. the convention is expected to bring significant economic benefits, in particular for developing countries and least developed countries. measures to facilitate trade may also provide relief for smes. the agreement also has the capacity to recognise, in an innovative way, the different enforcement capacities of different nations by inviting developing and least developed countries to determine when specific provisions of the agreement will be applied and by linking the implementation of some rules to assistance provided by developed nations. as a member of the hungarian people's party delegation, i voted in favour of the proposal.
in writing. ‒ the marrakesh agreement aims to simplify the customs treatment and trade of goods worldwide. in this regard, close cooperation between the customs authorities of each of the states parties is required. the amendment of the convention is expected to have a positive impact, in particular for developing countries and least developed countries. measures to facilitate trade can also bring significant relief to smes. the agreement innovatively recognises different national enforcement capacities. it calls on developing and least developed countries to determine when they will apply the specific provisions of the agreement, and further links the implementation of some rules to the assistance provided by developed nations. that's why i voted for the motion.
in writing. ‒ the agreement on trade facilitation was concluded at the 9th wto ministerial conference in december 2013. the agreement is less a legal commitment and more focused on cooperation to implement best practices that governments can support and follow. it contains some 40 provisions to speed up the movement, release and clearance of goods, including those on the publication of laws, regulations and procedures, the use of electronic payments, the reduction of formalities and documentation requirements or the uniform application of border control procedures. the rapporteur considers the expected benefits of the agreement, in particular for developing and least developed countries, and the recommendation clearly advocates the european parliament's support for the council's draft decision.
in writing. ‒ the report targets the agreement on trade facilitation, which is not only innovative because it is the first multilateral agreement on new rules to be negotiated under the auspices of the wto since its inception almost 20 years ago. the approximation is pioneering and allows developing and least developed countries to categorize their commitments and to define the timetable for their implementation. this will require increased transparency and cooperation between customs authorities. i welcome the report's approach, since the provisions on transit are of particular importance for landlocked countries wishing to trade through the ports of neighbouring countries.
in writing. ‒ the budapest convention on the contract for the carriage of goods by inland waterway was adopted by the diplomatic conference organized by the central commission for shipping on the rhine and the danube commission with the participation of the un economic commission for europe. the treaty entered into force on 1 april 2005, thereby facilitating the harmonisation of contracts and standards for inland waterway transport in the field of transport, which contributes to the effective functioning of the internal market. the budapest convention is an agreement that falls partly within the exclusive competence of the union. consequently, member states cannot ratify it or accede to it without the union's authorisation. belgium ratified the convention on 5 august 2008, following the entry into force of the rome i regulation (on the law applicable to contractual obligations) on 24 july 2008. therefore, in order to resolve the current unregulated legal situation, it is necessary to grant a retroactive authorisation. austria has indicated its intention to accede to the convention and poland has indicated its intention to ratify it. the participation of those member states will promote the wide application of the convention, bringing benefits to citizens and businesses. the draft decision therefore authorises belgium and poland to ratify the budapest convention and austria to accede to it. in view of the above, i voted in favour of the proposal.
in writing. ‒ the budapest convention on the contract for the carriage of goods by inland waterway was adopted by the diplomatic conference organized by the central commission for navigation on the rhine and the danube commission with the participation of the un economic commission for europe and entered into force on 1 april 2005, thus facilitating the harmonisation of contracts and standards for inland waterway transport in the field of transport, which contributes to the effective functioning of the internal market. the budapest convention is an agreement that falls partly within the exclusive competence of the union. consequently, member states cannot ratify it or accede to it without the union's authorisation. belgium ratified the convention on 5 august 2008, following the entry into force of the rome i regulation (on the law applicable to contractual obligations) on 24 july 2008. therefore, in order to remedy the current irregular legal situation, it is necessary to grant the retroactive authorisation. austria has also indicated its intention to accede to the convention and poland has indicated its intention to ratify it. the participation of those member states will promote the wide application of the convention, bringing benefits to citizens and businesses. the draft decision therefore authorises belgium and poland to ratify the budapest convention and austria to accede to it. in view of the above, i voted in favour of the proposal.
in writing. ‒ the budapest convention on the contract for the carriage of goods by inland waterway was adopted by the diplomatic conference organized by the central commission for shipping on the rhine and the danube commission with the participation of the un economic commission for europe and entered into force on 1 april 2005. in the field of transport, it contributes to the internal market by harmonising contracts and standards for inland waterway navigation. eleven member states are already parties to the budapest convention, while fifteen member states have indicated that they do not have inland waterways covered by the convention. austria and poland have indicated their wish to accede to the convention. their participation will promote the widespread application of the convention, bringing benefits to citizens and businesses. furthermore, belgium has ratified the convention. it therefore authorises belgium and poland to ratify the budapest convention and austria to accede to it. for these reasons, i support the rapporteur's proposal that parliament give its consent to the delegation of power.
in writing. ‒ the budapest convention on the contract for the carriage of goods by inland waterways entered into force on 1 april 2005. a convention is an agreement which falls partly within the exclusive competence of the union but does not allow for union accession. however, member states may not ratify it or accede to it without a mandate from the union. eleven member states are already parties to the budapest convention and another 15 have indicated that they do not have inland waterways covered by the convention. austria and poland wish to accede to the conventionbelgium ratified the convention on 5 august 2008, a few days after the entry into force of the rome i regulation of 24 july 2008, which stated that agreements falling within the exclusive competence of the union in whole or in part could only be ratified by member states with a mandate from the union. the granting of a retroactive authorisation is necessary to remedy the current irregular legal situation. the draft decision therefore authorises belgium to ratify the budapest convention and austria and poland to accede to it. for the reasons stated above, i voted in favour of the motion.
i voted against the report, of course, and this meeting ended without any answer as to whether hungary would or could comply with the eu's mandatory standards and otherwise protect the eu's external borders. it was just a matter of putting in the trite words to take in as many immigrants as possible, under as many different legal titles as possible. of course, this can easily be heard in the european parliament, because your lives will not change at all no matter how many migrants come to your country. you'll have the same income, the same black mercedes with driver, you'll take the company to the luxury hotel, you'll live in safe neighborhoods, not with unfortunate, stressed-out immigrants. your child, if he gets tired of it, or you, if your child is in a school with immigrants, they'll send them to private schools, they'll go to private health care. nothing is expensive for you.
in writing. ‒ as a member of the hungarian people's party delegation, i could not vote for the keller report because it does not deal with real problems, and therefore does not provide a solution to the current crisis. mandatory quotas are not helping. the biggest problem right now is that a fraction of the refugee flow today is willing to register, cooperate with the authorities, and accept refugee status from the poorer member states. most of them are heading for the member states that promise more social assistance, and they are doing everything they can to get there. it will do so after the quota allocation, moving as soon as possible to states where it can count on more social assistance. and in the meantime, there's no point in talking much about quotas, about distribution, as long as we can't protect europe's external borders, and the number of people entering the union by the thousands every day, while only a fraction of them are eligible for refugee status.
in writing. ‒ i could not vote for the report because i do not think it addresses the problem that needs urgent attention and therefore does not provide a solution to the current crisis. mandatory quotas are not helping. the whole mandatory quota system could collapse every day with every single refugee that is kidnapped. unfortunately, the sad events of the past few days have also shown what refugees are capable of when they do not get what they want from the union. the whole story will be about the endless daily movement of refugees and authorities, and of course, between member states, tens of thousands of them, making life more difficult for our citizens. the eu's failed immigration policy is to blame for this situation. this policy has led to a huge wave of migration in many member states. i see you doing something as if something were happening, as if a solution to a problem was being created, when this so-called solution is nothing more than complicating the problem. the story is eerily similar to the handling of the greek situation. it doesn't look like the end result. so let's be realistic: the eu's proposed quota system is not needed to deal with the migration issue, because it is a sham solution!
in writing. ‒ as a member of the hungarian people's party delegation, i could not vote for the keller report because it does not deal with real problems and therefore does not provide a solution to the current migration crisis. mandatory quotas are not helping. the biggest problem is that today a fraction of the refugee influx is willing to register, cooperate with the authorities, and accept refugee status from poorer member states. most of them are heading for the member states that promise more social assistance, and they are doing everything they can to get there. it will do so after the quota allocation, moving as soon as possible to states where it can count on more social assistance. and until then, there's no point in talking about quotas, about distribution, unless we can protect europe's external borders. until that happens, thousands more people are entering the union every day, and only a fraction of them would qualify for refugee status.
in writing. ‒ in order to relieve greece and italy, which have been hit hardest by the refugee crisis, the commission proposes to relocate 40 000 persons in clear need of international protection from italy and greece to the other member states as an emergency measure, by way of a temporary derogation from the dublin regulation. the rapporteur welcomes the proposal, pointing out that the member states of the european union must find a united front to address the challenges posed by migration, based on solidarity and fair sharing of responsibility, in particular with those member states which host the largest number of refugees. since the 40,000 figure was based on last year's refugee population and this year's refugee population has jumped, he proposes to increase the number to 50,000. it is in favour of a mandatory quota for the distribution of asylum seekers between member states and of improving the quality of resettlement. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the eu-malta resettlement facility, in particular through the implementation of the eu-malta resettlement facility. notes that the commission announced in its migration agenda that it would present a legislative proposal for a permanent resettlement scheme under the codecision procedure by the end of 2015 and recommends that parliament take the initiative in this regard and present an own-initiative report if the commission does not present such a proposal;
in writing. ‒ as a member of the hungarian people's party delegation, i could not vote for the keller report because it does not deal with real problems, and therefore does not provide a solution to the current crisis. mandatory quotas are not helping. the biggest problem is that today a fraction of the refugee influx is willing to register, to cooperate with the authorities, and to accept the refugee status of, say, poorer member states. most of them are heading for the member states that promise more social assistance, and they are doing everything they can to get there. it will do so after the quota allocation, moving as soon as possible to states where it can count on more social assistance. and in the meantime, there's no point in talking much about quotas, about distribution, as long as we can't protect europe's external borders, and the number of people entering the union by the thousands every day, while only a fraction of them are eligible for refugee status.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the motion, above all because it is a call for support for a solution to a highly urgent issue that affects tens of thousands of human lives. however, i consider it important to underline that i consider the use of existing eu legal and financial instruments to be only a temporary legal basis and that it is urgent that the eu institutions establish a legal basis capable of addressing the refugee and migration wave in a comprehensive and lasting manner. the proposal merely refers to the importance of the balkan refugee route, whereas in the light of the real migration data, i would have considered it appropriate to extend the scope of the temporary measures to hungary, which is facing similar difficulties to greece and italy, and as a representative i will seek to uphold this point in the future.
i think it is appropriate that parliament has discussed a report on the urban dimension of eu policy. this is justified by the fact that 80% of the population lives in or near cities. and in closing, this is not a positive change. the main reason for this is, unfortunately, that in many countries the population buffer of the countryside has declined, not least because of the large-scale industrial nature of agriculture. but we must acknowledge the fact and it is therefore right that regional and spatial development policies should give special emphasis to the urban dimension. what i did not accept was a separate paragraph which was voted on, which establishes a central back-up institution for the management of municipal policy, working alongside the commission, and so a central will will prevail here as well. so instead of supporting it, i abstained.
in writing. ‒ the proportion of the world's urban population is growing dynamically. as the report explains, cities are both a focus of opportunities and a focus of challenges. opportunities, because cities are engines of economic growth, job creation, innovation. and challenges, because cities are responsible for the majority of greenhouse gas emissions and energy use, are characterized by congestion-related transportation difficulties, high levels of pollution, social exclusion. in this context, the rapporteur welcomes the commission's steps towards establishing an eu urban agenda and considers that this agenda should be based on multi-level governance, adequate eu funding, partnership, better regulation and regular exchange of information, with due regard to the principle of subsidiarity. as a member of the hungarian people's party delegation, i therefore voted in favour of kerstin westphal's report on the urban dimension of eu policies.
in writing. as a member of the hungarian people's party delegation, i voted in favour of kerstin westphal's report on the urban dimension of eu policies, as it contains several ideas worth considering. the proportion of the world's urban population is growing dynamically. as the report explains, cities are both a focus of opportunities and a focus of challenges. opportunities, because cities are engines of economic growth, job creation, innovation. and challenges, because cities are responsible for the majority of greenhouse gas emissions and energy use, are characterized by congestion-related transportation difficulties, high levels of pollution, social exclusion. in this context, the rapporteur welcomes the commission's steps towards establishing an eu urban agenda and considers that this agenda should be based on multi-level governance, adequate eu funding, partnership, better regulation and regular exchange of information, with due regard to the principle of subsidiarity.
in writing. as a member of the hungarian people's party delegation, i voted in favour of kerstin westphal's report on the urban dimension of eu policies. the proportion of the world's urban population is growing dynamically. as the report explains, cities are both a focus of opportunities and a focus of challenges. opportunities, because cities are engines of economic growth, job creation, innovation. and challenges, because cities are responsible for the majority of greenhouse gas emissions and energy use, are characterized by congestion-related transportation difficulties, high levels of pollution, social exclusion. in this context, the rapporteur welcomes the commission's steps towards establishing an eu urban agenda and considers that this agenda should be based on multi-level governance, adequate eu funding, partnership, better regulation and regular exchange of information, with due regard to the principle of subsidiarity. the report's proposals contain a number of ideas which are worth considering, and i therefore supported the motion in the strasbourg plenary vote.
in writing. ‒ as a member of the hungarian people's party delegation, i voted in favour of kerstin westphal's report on the urban dimension of eu policies. the proportion of the world's urban population is growing dynamically. as the report explains, cities are both a focus of opportunities and a focus of challenges. opportunities, because cities are engines of economic growth, job creation, innovation. and challenges, because cities are responsible for the majority of greenhouse gas emissions and energy use, are characterized by congestion-related transportation difficulties, high levels of pollution, social exclusion. in this context, the rapporteur welcomes the commission's steps towards establishing an eu urban agenda and considers that this agenda should be based on multi-level governance, adequate eu funding, partnership, better regulation and regular exchange of information, with due regard to the principle of subsidiarity.
in writing. ‒ the rapporteur takes the view that, in parallel with population growth and the emergence of new technologies, the number of people living in cities is gradually increasing in europe and worldwide. in 1950, 50.5% of the european population lived in urban areas. this is up from 72% in 2014 and could reach 78% by 2030. globally, the urban population is expected to double from 29% in the 1950s to 80% by 2050. the report aims to address the urban policy challenges of eu policy. the rapporteur believes that only through active and coordinated eu policies will cities be able to fulfil their function in the future and offer their inhabitants living conditions that meet their needs, and that urgent eu policy action is needed to be able to effectively influence the consequences and pace of european urbanisation.
on behalf of the verts/ale group.– mr president, madam high representative, mr vice-president, colleagues, we are here again to talk about the israel-palestine conflict, and i am willing to bet a substantial part of my income from this house that it is not going to be the last time we discuss the issue. i will try to refrain from grandstanding and pretending that we, or anyone in this house, could know the exact solution to the conflict. what we know, however, is that the conflict needs to be resolved because a one-state solution – towards which there are some indications that israel is moving – is a non-solution. my israeli friends also know that. the reason why we base our position on the two-state solution is not ideological: it is a practical response to thinking about how the alternative would look. i would like to remind everybody of a brilliant piece by none other than tony judd, way back in 2003 in the new york review of books, which made waves in israel as well. back then he argued that, if the two-state solution was dead, the one-state solution might be coming and the bad news was that it was going to be much more costly for both the palestinians and the israelis. it is not a solution that anyone should aspire to, and we are not supporting anything which allows the last hope for a two-state solution simply to evaporate because of inaction. that is why we have been working very closely with the s&d group and the rapporteur, and, luckily, after four hours of negotiations we were able to put together a text, which is not ideal from our point of view but which, at least, may provide strong support from this chamber and offer a strong mandate for what to do next. the negotiations should resume and should involve both sides and all the parties. at the same time, we should not forget that international law needs to be observed, even by israel, and if that is not a principled stance on the part of the eu we will not be able to influence the situation. either we base ourselves on international law and international principles or we will have no impact on our immediate environment. the five-million political community simply cannot afford that, so thank you very much for your efforts, madam high representative, mr vice-president, and the best of luck to you.
it is indeed time for the european union to play a greater and more meaningful role in promoting the middle east peace process. i consider it important that the european parliament gives its strong support to the active commitment shown by ms mogherini in promoting the peace process. at the same time, credibility and impartiality are essential for effective eu foreign policy action. the resolution puts great emphasis on the european tasks ahead of us in improving the security, humanitarian and political situation of the palestinian population. i believe it is important that the eu's efforts should give equal weight to preventing terrorist acts from gaza and other palestinian territories, to curbing the influence of hamas and to establishing a strong palestinian administration to ensure this following the early elections. the current israeli government and policy may be liked or disliked - i, for example, do not like the current one very much - but the promotion of israel's sovereignty and the legitimate security interests of its citizens must be a permanent element of a credible and effective eu middle east policy.
madam president, i have a couple of straightforward questions for ms mogherini, and i would appreciate straightforward answers. firstly, to our knowledge as the european union, who financially supports islamic state? secondly, in particular, who buys oil from islamic state? thirdly, what kind of concrete efforts has the european union made so far to identify those states or companies who obviously commit crimes under international law, and what kind of efforts has the european union made in order to bring them to justice? these are the questions which have to be answered in order not to see more shocking pictures of syrian children dying in the sea.
six motions for resolutions were tabled to wind up the debate. i'll close this discussion. the vote will be held on thursday 10 september 2015. the commission shall be assisted by the committee established by article 15 of regulation (eu) no 182/2011.
the next item is the statement by the vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy on the situation in belarus.
i can't give the congresswoman another wild card opportunity, since we're past the time frame. i'd like to make the most of the available time. i'm sorry, but i can't accept a yellow card from a member of the house.
it's a two-card draw. - mr. deputy, i have to go. i agree with you that there are clusters of low-paid jobs in the european union, and we have reached the point in many places where many people are not even able to make a living from work. but what do you think, and i'm asking you to think about it, what do you think about the fact that in our current statistical system, if you hire someone for an hour or two in a month, that person is already fully employed that month?
in writing. the economic and financial crisis has led to an increase in poverty and social exclusion and in long-term unemployment, placing disabled people at increased risk of poverty across the european union, and a dramatic increase in the number of european citizens unable to settle for more than a year. in addition to employment-enhancing instruments, more attention should be paid to solutions that can facilitate the reintegration into the labour market of people with even the most basic skills and non-competitive knowledge in the short term, so that they can exploit the benefits of more innovative solutions in the social economy later on. any improvement in the economic and financial situation in the member states should be accompanied by intensive support for inclusive and sustainable growth and quality employment. in order to transition them into the social economy, member states should promote lifelong learning among older workers and the long-term unemployed, including those with disabilities, who continue to face physical, information and communication barriers. member states should take into account best practices in adapting national tax systems to social enterprises and socially conscious investments and, where appropriate, enhance tax benefits and incentives for such types of enterprises dealing with vulnerable groups, such as persons with disabilities.
commission president juncker today called for more union in europe, and i think many of us would agree. we have common policies in many areas, but let's face it, especially in those areas where we favor the needs of capital. it seems that we have forgotten the idea of a 'social europe' for a while, and it is time to revive it. let's take it one step at a time. we have standards, we have standards, for example, for animal health, but we have almost no attention to human health. in a more general sense, our farm animals may already feel at home in the union, but we humans seem to have to wait a little longer. but it is a good sign that at least the union is in the business of our food, which is the fundamental determinant of our health. we can list the challenges. it is not necessary to be a good person to see that these are now so burdensome that no single member state can meet them alone. i see the future, the answers to the future, in the common european health policy.
the first item on the agenda is the debate on the report by mr kostas chrysogonos, drawn up on behalf of the committee on legal affairs, on the follow-up to the 30th and 31st annual reports (20122013) on the application of european union law (2014/2253 ((ini)) ((a8-0242/2015)).
i'll close this discussion. the vote will be held on thursday 10 september 2015. the commission shall be assisted by the committee established by article 15 of regulation (eu) no 182/2011.
the following point is taken from the debate on the oral question to the commission on the gender dimension of trafficking in human beings, tabled by iratxe garcía pérez and catherine bearder on behalf of the committee on women's rights and equal opportunities (o-000079/2015 - b8-0568/2015)
i voted in favour of the cohesion report, of course, because i come from hungary, a country in the european union that is suffering from serious handicaps, and this report should provide hungary with more money. the question is how this money will be spent, because hungary feels nothing at the moment about balancing the huge gap that existed between hungary and the western countries when we joined the european union. there are two reasons for this. the first is the kind of colonization that we are constantly feeling in preparation for our entry, and the second is that our resources are being sucked from both sides, on the one hand by the neoliberal globalist forces and the european union, and on the other by our own oligarchs, who, for example, have divided the land, the hungarian arable land, first between each other in the form of rent, and now our last resource, the arable land, is being sold to each other. we protest and ask for the support of the union.
in writing. ‒ the report focuses on the union's number one investment policy, cohesion policy, which is the most audited and evaluated spending area of the eu budget with a budget of over €350 billion for the period 2014-2020. the report contains ideas with which i very much agree. one of the key ideas in the report is that the effectiveness and credibility of cohesion policy can only be sustained if the very large payment backlog is eliminated and the order of magnitude of eu budgetary resources devoted to cohesion policy is maintained. the report focuses on the issue of unemployment, in particular youth unemployment and the job creation capacity of smes. in order to promote job creation, the rapporteur calls for a coordinated use of the european social fund and the european regional development fund, and recommends reducing the administrative burden on final beneficiaries in order to increase efficiency. the report confirms the original objective of cohesion policy, to reduce the development gap, while emphasising its contribution to the europe 2020 strategy's objectives of smart, inclusive and sustainable growth and its role in mitigating the devastating effects of the crisis. therefore, as a member of the hungarian people's party delegation, i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ as a member of the hungarian people's party delegation, i voted in favour of the report by mr tamás deutsch on the eu's investment policy of the first order, cohesion policy, which is the most controlled and evaluated spending area of the eu budget with a budget of over 350 billion euro for the period 2014-2020. the deutsch report contains ideas with which i very much agree. one of the key ideas in the report is that the effectiveness and credibility of cohesion policy can only be sustained if the very large payment backlog is eliminated and the order of magnitude of eu budgetary resources devoted to cohesion policy is maintained. the report focuses on the issue of unemployment, in particular youth unemployment and the job creation capacity of smes. to promote job creation, deutsch tamás calls for a coordinated use of the european social fund and the european regional development fund, and recommends reducing the administrative burden on final beneficiaries in order to increase efficiency. the report confirms the original objective of cohesion policy, to reduce the development gap, while emphasising its contribution to the europe 2020 strategy's objectives of smart, inclusive and sustainable growth and its role in mitigating the devastating effects of the crisis. the deutsch report is one of the most important regional policy documents of the 2014-2020 cycle, and received overwhelming support in the plenary vote.
in writing. as a member of the hungarian people's party delegation, i voted in favour of the report investing in jobs and growth - promoting economic, social and territorial cohesion in the union. the report, cited by tamás deutsch, focuses on the union's investment policy of the first order, cohesion policy, which is the most audited and evaluated spending area of the eu budget with a budget of over €350 billion for the period 2014-2020. the deutsch report contains ideas with which i very much agree. one of the key ideas in the report is that the effectiveness and credibility of cohesion policy can only be sustained if the very large payment backlog is eliminated and the order of magnitude of eu budgetary resources devoted to cohesion policy is maintained. the report focuses on the issue of unemployment, in particular youth unemployment and the job creation capacity of smes. to promote job creation, deutsch tamás calls for a coordinated use of the european social fund and the european regional development fund, and recommends reducing the administrative burden on final beneficiaries in order to increase efficiency. the report confirms the original objective of cohesion policy, to reduce the development gap, while emphasising its contribution to the europe 2020 strategy's objectives of smart, inclusive and sustainable growth and its role in mitigating the devastating effects of the crisis. the deutsch report is one of the most important regional policy documents of the 2014-2020 cycle, and has received overwhelming support in both the committee and plenary votes.
in writing. as a member of the hungarian people's party delegation, i voted in favour of the report investing in jobs and growth - promoting economic, social and territorial cohesion in the union. the report, cited by tamás deutsch, focuses on the union's investment policy of the first order, cohesion policy, which is the most audited and evaluated spending area of the eu budget with a budget of over €350 billion for the period 2014-2020. the deutsch report contains ideas with which i very much agree. one of the key ideas in the report is that the effectiveness and credibility of cohesion policy can only be sustained if the very large payment backlog is eliminated and the order of magnitude of eu budgetary resources devoted to cohesion policy is maintained. the report focuses on the issue of unemployment, in particular youth unemployment and the job creation capacity of smes. to promote job creation, deutsch tamás calls for a coordinated use of the european social fund and the european regional development fund, and recommends reducing the administrative burden on final beneficiaries in order to increase efficiency. the report confirms the original objective of cohesion policy, to reduce the development gap, while emphasising its contribution to the europe 2020 strategy's objectives of smart, inclusive and sustainable growth and its role in mitigating the devastating effects of the crisis. the deutsch report is one of the most important regional policy documents of the 2014-2020 cycle, and has received overwhelming support in both the committee and plenary votes.
in writing. ‒ as a member of the hungarian people's party delegation, i voted in favour of the report 'investing in jobs and growth - promoting economic, social and territorial cohesion in the union'. the report, cited by tamás deutsch, focuses on the union's investment policy of the first order, cohesion policy, which is the most monitored and evaluated spending area of the eu budget with a budget of over €350 billion for the period 2014-2020. one of the key ideas in the report is that the effectiveness and credibility of cohesion policy can only be sustained if the very large payment backlog is eliminated and the order of magnitude of eu budgetary resources devoted to cohesion policy is maintained. the report focuses on the issue of unemployment, in particular youth unemployment and the job creation capacity of smes. to promote job creation, deutsch tamás calls for a coordinated use of the european social fund and the european regional development fund, and recommends reducing the administrative burden on final beneficiaries in order to increase efficiency.
in writing. ‒ as a member of the hungarian people's party delegation, i voted in favour of the report 'investing in jobs and growth - promoting economic, social and territorial cohesion in the union'. the report, cited by tamás deutsch, focuses on the union's investment policy of the first order, cohesion policy, which is the most audited and evaluated spending area of the eu budget with a budget of over €350 billion for the period 2014-2020. one of the key ideas in the report is that the effectiveness and credibility of cohesion policy can only be sustained if the very large payment backlog is eliminated and the order of magnitude of eu budgetary resources devoted to cohesion policy is maintained. the report focuses on the issue of unemployment, in particular youth unemployment and the job creation capacity of smes. to promote job creation, deutsch tamás calls for a coordinated use of the european social fund and the european regional development fund, and recommends reducing the administrative burden on final beneficiaries in order to increase efficiency. the report confirms the original objective of cohesion policy, to reduce the development gap, while emphasising its contribution to the europe 2020 strategy's objectives of smart, inclusive and sustainable growth and its role in mitigating the devastating effects of the crisis. the report is one of the key regional policy documents of the 2014-2020 cycle.
in writing. ‒ as a member of the hungarian people's party delegation, i voted in favour of the report 'investing in jobs and growth - promoting economic, social and territorial cohesion in the union'. the report, cited by tamás deutsch, focuses on the union's investment policy of the first order, cohesion policy, which is the most audited and evaluated spending area of the eu budget with a budget of over €350 billion for the period 2014-2020. the effectiveness and credibility of cohesion policy can only be sustained if the very large payment deficit is eliminated and the order of magnitude of eu budgetary resources devoted to cohesion policy is maintained. the report pays particular attention to unemployment, especially youth unemployment, and the capacity of smes to create jobs. to promote job creation, deutsch tamás calls for a coordinated use of the european social fund and the european regional development fund, and recommends reducing the administrative burden on final beneficiaries in order to increase efficiency. the document confirms the original objective of cohesion policy, which is to reduce development disparities. it also underlines its contribution to the europe 2020 strategy's objectives of smart, inclusive and sustainable growth and its role in mitigating the negative effects of the economic crisis. the deutsch report is one of the most important regional policy documents of the 2014-2020 cycle, and has received overwhelming support in both the committee and plenary votes.
in writing. ‒ in accordance with the treaty on the functioning of the european union, the european commission prepares a cohesion report every three years on progress made towards achieving economic, social and territorial cohesion... looking back at the 2007-2013 programming period, the sixth cohesion report reports that cohesion policy has successfully dampened the effects of a significant - on average 20% - fall in public investment in the eu. however, regional disparities have deepened recently and, following the improvement since 2000, employment has fallen again and competitiveness has deteriorated in several member states, mainly in the south. looking ahead, the report identifies energy efficiency, employment and support for smes as promising areas for sustainable job creation for investments to be made between 2014 and 2020. the rapporteur welcomes the eu's new european investment plan, which will complement structural and cohesion investments, but points out that this should not have a negative impact on the cohesion policy budget and long-term strategic programming, as the regions most in need of investment incentives often have smaller administrative and absorption capacities, making them unsuitable to participate in the new investment plan.
in writing. ‒ the report by tamás deutsch focuses on the union's number one investment policy, cohesion policy, which is the most audited and evaluated spending area of the eu budget with a budget of over €350 billion for the period 2014-2020. the deutsch report contains ideas with which i very much agree. one of the key ideas in the report is that the effectiveness and credibility of cohesion policy can only be sustained if the very large payment backlog is eliminated and the order of magnitude of eu budgetary resources devoted to cohesion policy is maintained. the report focuses on the issue of unemployment, in particular youth unemployment and the job creation capacity of smes. to promote job creation, deutsch tamás calls for a coordinated use of the european social fund and the european regional development fund, and recommends reducing the administrative burden on final beneficiaries in order to increase efficiency. the report confirms the original objective of cohesion policy, to reduce the development gap, while emphasising its contribution to the europe 2020 strategy's objectives of smart, inclusive and sustainable growth and its role in mitigating the devastating effects of the crisis. the deutsch report is one of the most important regional policy documents of the 2014-2020 cycle, and has received overwhelming support in both the committee and plenary votes. as a member of the hungarian people's party delegation, i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report as i consider it important to promote economic, social and territorial cohesion in the european union. i am glad that the pro-government side of the hungarian government has finally expressed the importance of this and that the european union (and its financial support) is indispensable. the report also welcomes the creation of the european fund for strategic investments, which can once again provide a significant source of development funds for developments in the member states. however, it should be noted that since this is a direct and transparent resource, it will not be possible for it to be distributed to the government's political allies without public procurement. the report mentions climate change and energy dependence as one of the objectives of cohesion policy. however, i find it paradoxical that while some member states - and hungary in particular - are naturally and happily spending eu funds, they are imposing a special tax on certain renewable energy sources. the report calls on all actors concerned, in particular the central authorities, to develop multi-level governance and coordination mechanisms to support country-specific recommendations. the spirit of this proposal can also be interpreted as a country-specific recommendation where each application is allocated to a single political leader. i believe that in order to promote cohesion, more emphasis should be placed on local communities rather than on the development of complex programmes, as the report refers to in several places.
in writing. ‒ 2012 has been declared the european year of active ageing and solidarity between generations. the main objective was to facilitate the creation of an active ageing culture in europe, based on a society that is open to individuals at all ages. the various levels of the union have made a significant contribution to achieving the objectives. however, not everyone was able to exploit its full potential due to the delay in the implementation timetable. the eu website was widely praised for its cost-effectiveness, but its traffic was below the results of previous european years. activity on social media also appeared to be limited by participants and stakeholders, at least at eu level. at union level, the european year 2012 and other ongoing policy activities such as the white paper on pensions, the demographic forum, the european innovation partnership on active and healthy ageing and the planned accessibility package complemented each other well. i therefore voted in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ 2012 has been declared the european year of active ageing and solidarity between generations. the main objective was to facilitate the creation of an active ageing culture in europe, based on a society that is open to individuals at all ages. i welcome the specific objectives of this initiative, which include raising awareness of the value and diversity of active ageing and combating age discrimination, as well as combating age-related stereotypes and supporting activities to help remove barriers. in line with the rapporteur, i believe that the initiatives launched in the framework of the european year 2012 should be monitored and continued; the sustainability of the results is key. i welcome the two main outcomes of the european year 2012: the principles on active ageing and the promotion of solidarity between generations and the active ageing index, and i encourage member states to make more active use of them and to set targets to be achieved through comprehensive active ageing strategies and to monitor progress towards these targets.
in writing. ‒ 2012 has been declared the european year of active ageing and solidarity between generations. the rapporteur shall evaluate the events and initiatives that have taken place and make recommendations for the dissemination of the results. it considers the two main outcomes of the european year 2012 to be the principles of active ageing and solidarity between generations and the active ageing index, and encourages member states to make more active use of them and to define objectives to be achieved through comprehensive active ageing strategies. he also mentions the forthcoming european union convention on demographic change as another important achievement. it stresses that the demographic changes facing europe should be seen as an opportunity rather than a burden on european society. a key element of this would be to recognise the social usefulness and positive role of older people in society and to strive to improve intergenerational dialogue. it also considers it necessary to develop a 'silver economy' that meets the needs of an ageing population, based on the economic opportunities arising from public and consumer spending related to the ageing population and to certain products, services, innovative solutions and the needs of the population over 50 years of age, generating new jobs and growth.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report because i agree that empowering people to age actively is important across europe and the report has looked at this issue very broadly. i would point out, however, that the level of regulation in the member states varies considerably. i personally think it is important to start a debate across europe about the challenges of active ageing and solidarity between generations. i would like to emphasize one point which is not specifically addressed in the report, although its content does in fact point in the direction of it. this issue is highlighted by the creation of the european climate charter. i believe that the debate on the report has confirmed that we must really and immediately start working on it.
in writing. ‒ i believe that an interim review of the white paper is necessary, as the long-term objectives we set in 2011 do not always meet the challenges of today. the purpose of the mid-term review is not to reduce the ambitious targets we set in 2011, but to strengthen the commitment to reach them. better use of rail and water transport is needed, as well as support and promotion of electric and innovative forms of transport, particularly in the area of freight transport. by better exploiting these opportunities, we can grow our economy, protect our environment and reduce congestion on our roads, and create new jobs. at the same time, europe's dependence on oil needs to be reduced. but to do so, the eu must rethink its transport policy. i did not support the points in the report, which were concealed under the cloak of so-called social dumping, which are contrary to the interests of hungarian entrepreneurs and transport operators and whose primary objective is to protect the jobs of western companies. i voted in favour of the report with the exceptions mentioned.
in writing. i voted in favour of the own-initiative report by my colleague, mr van de camp, on the implementation of the 2011 white paper on transport. i believe that an interim review of the white paper is necessary, as the long-term objectives we set out in 2011 do not always meet the challenges of today. the purpose of the mid-term review is not to reduce the ambitious targets we set in 2011, but to strengthen the commitment to reach them. better use of rail and water transport is needed, as well as support and promotion of electric and innovative forms of transport, particularly in the area of freight transport. by better exploiting these opportunities, we can grow our economy, protect our environment and reduce congestion on our roads, and create new jobs. at the same time, europe's dependence on oil needs to be reduced. but to do so, the eu must rethink its transport policy. at the same time, i did not support the points in the report, which were concealed under the cloak of so-called social dumping, which are contrary to the interests of hungarian entrepreneurs and transport operators and whose primary objective is to protect the jobs of western companies.
in writing. i voted in favour of the own-initiative report by my colleague, mr van de camp, on the implementation of the 2011 white paper on transport. i believe that an interim review of the white paper is necessary, as the long-term objectives we set out in 2011 do not always meet the challenges of today. the purpose of the mid-term review is not to reduce the ambitious targets we set in 2011, but to strengthen the commitment to reach them. better use of rail and water transport is needed, as well as support and promotion of electric and innovative forms of transport, particularly in the area of freight transport. by better exploiting these opportunities, we can grow our economy, protect our environment and reduce congestion on our roads, and create new jobs. at the same time, europe's dependence on oil needs to be reduced. but to do so, the eu must rethink its transport policy. at the same time, i did not support the points in the report, which were concealed under the cloak of so-called social dumping, which are contrary to the interests of hungarian entrepreneurs and transport operators and whose primary objective is to protect the jobs of western companies.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report by my colleague, mr van de camp, on the need to make better use of rail and water transport and to promote and develop electric and innovative forms of transport, particularly in the field of freight transport. by better exploiting these opportunities, we can grow our economy, protect our environment and reduce congestion on our roads, and create new jobs. at the same time, europe's dependence on oil needs to be reduced. but to do so, the eu must rethink its transport policy. at the same time, i did not support the points in the report, which were concealed under the cloak of so-called social dumping, which are contrary to the interests of hungarian entrepreneurs and transport operators and whose primary objective is to protect the jobs of western companies.
in writing. ‒ the strategy outlined by the european commission in its 2011 white paper on transport was to make the transport system competitive, to increase mobility, to remove barriers in key areas and to promote growth and jobs. the proposals would also significantly reduce europe's dependence on oil imports and reduce carbon dioxide emissions from transport by 60% by 2050. the rapporteur reiterates that the european parliament supports the implementation of the white paper on transport, but points out that to achieve this, very difficult targets have to be met by 2050 and very challenging targets have to be met by 2020/2030. it points out that the complex transport system that needs to be transformed and made more efficient, cleaner, safer and more reliable cannot be achieved by a few minor changes. it considers that there is a significant gap between the objectives and the means needed to achieve and finance them, and that very ambitious objectives are difficult to achieve unless more detailed and well-founded plans for their achievement are developed, which include realistic and achievable short- and medium-term objectives, and which then lead to the achievement of long-term (2050) objectives. i supported the report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of my colleague, mr van de camp's own-initiative report on the implementation of the 2011 white paper on transport. i believe that an interim review of the white paper is necessary, as the long-term objectives we set out in 2011 do not always meet the challenges of today. the purpose of the mid-term review is not to reduce the ambitious targets we set in 2011, but to strengthen the commitment to reach them. better use of rail and water transport is needed, as well as support and promotion of electric and innovative forms of transport, particularly in the area of freight transport. by better exploiting these opportunities, we can grow our economy, protect our environment and reduce congestion on our roads, and create new jobs. at the same time, europe's dependence on oil needs to be reduced. but to do so, the eu must rethink its transport policy. at the same time, i did not support the points in the report, which were concealed under the cloak of so-called social dumping, which are contrary to the interests of hungarian entrepreneurs and transport operators and whose primary objective is to protect the jobs of western companies.
i supported a report on women and research and universities. why, let me start by telling you a shocking number. today in the european union, and i think it's no different in my country, more than half of all university graduates are women. we are talking about 59%. the ratio for rectors is 10%. i'm talking about the eu rate. i'm afraid there's even less of it in hungary. the other thing that i would like to highlight from this report is that unfortunately, a very high percentage of phd students, or women who have obtained their phd, stop doing research, scientific work when they get their phd, obviously because they have to fulfill their maternal obligations. however, this is not natural at all, nor is the very low number of rectors and academic directors. it's time to explore the reasons. i would ask that women in the relevant fields share this with us, for example with me, in their correspondence. thank you in advance.
in writing. ‒ i welcome the fact that the report makes a number of suggestions on how to encourage women to work in science and technology. the proportion of female researchers and students is increasing in europe, but they are still underrepresented in the scientific community. it is of the utmost importance that we seek to reverse this trend, for example by taking initiatives that could lead to breakthroughs in this area. i also believe it is important to ensure equal opportunities in recruitment procedures, to eliminate stereotypes and prejudices against women, and to monitor the development of the number of women in science, mathematics, technology and engineering. i agree with the rapporteur that the common european strategy needs to be strengthened in order to achieve real equality and significant progress in career opportunities for women and men in science, education and technology. as a member of the hungarian people's party delegation, i voted in favour of the report 'career opportunities for women in science and universities'.
in writing. as a member of the hungarian people's party delegation, i voted in favour of the report career opportunities for women in science and universities. i welcome the fact that the report by elissavet vozemberg makes a number of suggestions on how to encourage the employment of women in science and technology. the proportion of female researchers and students is increasing in europe, but they are still underrepresented in the scientific community. it is of the utmost importance that we seek to reverse this trend, for example by taking initiatives that could lead to breakthroughs in this area. i also believe it is important to ensure equal opportunities in recruitment procedures, to eliminate stereotypes and prejudices against women, and to monitor the development of the number of women in science, mathematics, technology and engineering. i agree with the rapporteur that the common european strategy needs to be strengthened in order to achieve real equality and significant progress in career opportunities for women and men in science, education and technology.
in writing. as a member of the hungarian people's party delegation, i voted in favour of the report career opportunities for women in science and universities. i welcome the fact that the report by elissavet vozemberg (epp, greece) makes a number of suggestions on how to encourage women to work in scientific and technical fields. the proportion of female researchers and students is increasing in europe, but they are still underrepresented in the scientific community. it is of the utmost importance that we seek to reverse this trend, for example by taking initiatives that could lead to breakthroughs in this area. i also believe it is important to ensure equal opportunities in recruitment procedures, to eliminate stereotypes and prejudices against women, and to monitor the development of the number of women in science, mathematics, technology and engineering. i agree with the rapporteur that the common european strategy needs to be strengthened in order to achieve real equality and significant progress in career opportunities for women and men in science, education and technology.
in writing. ‒ i welcome the fact that the report, which was signed by elissavet vozemberg (epp, greece), makes a number of suggestions on how to encourage women to work in scientific and technical fields. the proportion of female researchers and students is increasing in europe, but they are still underrepresented in the scientific community. it is of the utmost importance that we seek to reverse this trend, for example by taking initiatives that could lead to breakthroughs in this area. i also believe it is important to ensure equal opportunities in recruitment procedures, to eliminate stereotypes and prejudices against women, and to monitor the development of the number of women in science, mathematics, technology and engineering. i agree with the rapporteur that the common european strategy needs to be strengthened in order to achieve real equality and significant progress in career opportunities for women and men in science, education and technology.
in writing. ‒ the term 'glass ceiling' refers to invisible barriers based on prejudice that limit women's advancement to senior positions in their careers. the glass ceiling is one of the obstacles facing this group of women, which prevents them from being able to get into leadership positions in science, in academia, in their professions. the commission has also identified a number of areas where the union's policy on the environment is likely to be more effective, such as the protection of the environment, the protection of the environment from pollution and the protection of the environment from harmful substances. cooperation at the community level is essential and we all need to be involved, both individually and collectively. men and women are different, but they should nevertheless be equal in their rights, regardless of age, religion, marital status and educational background. member states should pursue a better policy on the recruitment and employment of scientists. the concept of equality should be introduced in school, where children learn that they are equal in all aspects of life. schools should also provide diversity training to support women in science, technology, engineering and mathematics.
in writing. ‒ by regularly promoting gender equality, we recognise that educating girls is one of the most rewarding development investments. i welcome the report in that sense. the report covers a number of objectives of high importance to the people's party, such as inclusive and equitable high-quality education and teacher training, professional skills development aimed at increasing employment, lifelong learning opportunities, the fight against stereotypes, and digital education. we can all experience that despite the eu's strong political commitment to equality, gender inequality is still underpinned by deep-rooted social barriers: fewer girls are choosing science or engineering courses, while more women are choosing careers in social care. i am firmly convinced that, in the interests of a common success, in the interests of a fruitful and constructive report, it would have been extremely important to respect the subject matter of the report and, under the umbrella of human rights, not to violate the principle of subsidiarity. we can of course encourage the member states to take certain measures, but education is first and foremost a matter for the member states and we must avoid, even with good intentions, interfering in areas where we have no competence. i regret to note that the report, despite its positive points, is in many places beyond its scope. i therefore abstained from voting.
in writing. by regularly promoting gender equality, we recognise that educating girls is one of the most rewarding development investments. i welcome the report by mrs rodrigues (portugal - socialists). the report covers a number of objectives of high importance to the people's party, such as inclusive and equitable high-quality education and teacher training, professional skills development aimed at increasing employment, lifelong learning opportunities, the fight against stereotypes, and digital education. we can all experience that despite the eu's strong political commitment to equality, gender inequality is still underpinned by deep-rooted social barriers: fewer girls are choosing science or engineering courses, while more women are choosing careers in social care. i am firmly convinced that, in the interests of a common success, in the interests of a fruitful and constructive report, it would have been extremely important to respect the subject matter of the report and, under the umbrella of human rights, not to violate the principle of subsidiarity. we can of course encourage the member states to take certain measures, but education is first and foremost a matter for the member states and we must avoid, even with good intentions, interfering in areas where we have no competence. i regret to note that the report, despite its positive points, is in many places beyond its scope. i therefore abstained from voting.
in writing. by regularly promoting gender equality, we recognise that educating girls is one of the most rewarding development investments. i welcome the report by mrs rodrigues (portugal - socialists). the report covers a number of objectives of high importance to the people's party, such as inclusive and equitable high-quality education and teacher training, professional skills development aimed at increasing employment, lifelong learning opportunities, the fight against stereotypes, and digital education. we can all experience that despite the eu's strong political commitment to equality, gender inequality is still underpinned by deep-rooted social barriers: fewer girls are choosing science or engineering courses, while more women are choosing careers in social care. i am firmly convinced that, in the interests of a common success, in the interests of a fruitful and constructive report, it would have been extremely important to respect the subject matter of the report and, under the umbrella of human rights, not to violate the principle of subsidiarity. we can of course encourage the member states to take certain measures, but education is first and foremost a matter for the member states and we must avoid, even with good intentions, interfering in areas where we have no competence. i regret to note that the report, despite its positive points, is in many places beyond its scope. i therefore abstained from voting.
in writing. ‒ by regularly promoting gender equality, we recognise that educating girls is one of the most rewarding development investments. i welcome the report by mrs rodrigues in this respect. the report covers a number of objectives of high importance to the people's party, such as inclusive and equitable high-quality education and teacher training, professional skills development aimed at increasing employment, lifelong learning opportunities, the fight against stereotypes, and digital education. we can all experience that despite the eu's strong political commitment to equality, gender inequality is still underpinned by deep-rooted social barriers: fewer girls are choosing science or engineering courses, while more women are choosing careers in social care. i am firmly convinced that, in the interests of a common success, in the interests of a fruitful and constructive report, it would have been extremely important to respect the subject matter of the report and, under the umbrella of human rights, not to violate the principle of subsidiarity. we can of course encourage the member states to take certain measures, but education is first and foremost a matter for the member states and we must avoid, even with good intentions, interfering in areas where we have no competence. i regret to note that the report, despite its positive points, is in many places beyond its scope. therefore, i abstained during the vote, in accordance with the position of the hungarian delegation to the people's party.
in writing. ‒ despite numerous legal and political declarations on equal opportunities for women, gender equality is still lacking across the european union and in some member states in particular. i believe, as the report emphasizes, that the fight against this must begin in education. on the one hand, we need an education system that compensates for the social disadvantages suffered by women in almost all areas of life, and on the other, education must first of all combat the social prejudices that are the main obstacles to women's empowerment. the report covers all this in detail, and i was happy to vote for it.
in writing. ‒ i agree with the report that education is the foundation of responsible civic engagement and is key to ensuring gender equality and empowerment of all citizens. i believe that the commission and the member states should ensure that measures that promote gender equality at all levels of education are improved. i also voted in favour of the report because i believe that education - for both girls and boys - should promote the development of a conscious, balanced, respectful, empathetic and mutually respectful personality, avoiding discrimination, aggression and bullying.
in writing. ‒ the internal market has entered a 'critical' phase, partly due to its internal weaknesses and untapped potential, and partly due to external challenges. in my view, the differences between the eu and switzerland start with the administrative burden of entry, and the rigidity of the labour market, i am thinking here of the swiss quota, only reduces the potential for growth. the integration of financial markets has made welcome progress in recent years, but i believe that this has been due to global trends rather than the good functioning of integration policies. i voted in favour of this report because i believe that better regulation is not only about consistency but also about how to implement and monitor its effectiveness. the report's recommendations are of particular importance for integration policies, as they cover a wide range of sectors and policies. the regulatory environment must therefore be simple, consistent and easy to enforce, which is the right way to create a genuine single market.
in writing. the internal market has entered a critical phase, partly due to its internal weaknesses and untapped potential, and partly due to external challenges. in my view, the differences between the eu and switzerland start with the administrative burden of entry, and labour market rigidity - particularly the swiss quota - only reduces the potential for growth. the integration of financial markets has made very good progress in recent years, which is welcome, but i believe that this is due to global trends rather than to the good functioning of integration policies. i voted in favour of this report because i believe that better regulation is not only about consistency but also about how to implement and monitor its effectiveness. the report's recommendations are of particular importance for integration policies, as they cover a wide range of sectors and policies. the regulatory environment must therefore be simple, consistent and easy to enforce, which is the right way to create a genuine single market.
in writing. the internal market has entered a critical phase, partly due to its internal weaknesses and untapped potential, and partly due to external challenges. in my view, the differences between the eu and switzerland start with the administrative burden of entry, and the rigidity of the labour market, i am thinking here of the swiss quota, only reduces the potential for growth. the integration of financial markets has made welcome progress in recent years, but i believe that this has been due to global trends rather than the good functioning of integration policies. i voted in favour of this report because i believe that better regulation is not only about consistency but also about how to implement and monitor its effectiveness. the report's recommendations are of particular importance for integration policies, as they cover a wide range of sectors and policies. the regulatory environment must therefore be simple, consistent and easy to enforce, which is the right way to create a genuine single market.
in writing. ‒ the internal market has entered a 'critical' phase, partly due to its internal weaknesses and untapped potential, and partly due to external challenges. in my view, the differences between the eu and switzerland start with the administrative burden of entry, and the rigidity of the labour market, i am thinking here of the swiss quota, only reduces the potential for growth. the integration of financial markets has made welcome progress in recent years, but i believe that this has been due to global trends rather than the good functioning of integration policies. i voted in favour of this report because i believe that better regulation is not only about consistency but also about how to implement and monitor its effectiveness. the report's recommendations are of particular importance for integration policies, as they cover a wide range of sectors and policies. the regulatory environment must therefore be simple, consistent and easy to enforce, which is the right way to create a genuine single market.
in writing. ‒ the report maps the relations between the eu, the other eea member states (liechtenstein, iceland, norway, andorra, monaco and san marina) and non-eea switzerland, and the obstacles to the completion of the single internal market in the efta area. in addition to a number of minor problems and obstacles, the main concern appears to be the measures introduced by the swiss confederation to impede the free movement of persons, as the movement of persons is one of the fundamental rights and pillars of the single market and has always been an integral part and prerequisite of the bilateral approach between the eu and switzerland. the report urges action to remove obstacles to the full implementation of the internal market.
in writing. ‒ as an alternate member of the delegation to the eu-iceland joint parliamentary committee and the eea joint parliamentary committee responsible for relations with switzerland and norway, i agree with the report that the eea agreement is a key factor in economic growth and the most powerful and comprehensive instrument for extending the single market to third countries. i consider it important that the substantive single market legislation is implemented in the eea efta states in a timely manner and with the least possible delay, and i share the view that this process can be further improved and accelerated. i also share the view that the strong links between the eu, the eea efta states and switzerland go beyond economic integration and the expansion of the single market and contribute to stability and prosperity for the benefit of all citizens and businesses, including smes. i believe that the gradual transposition and implementation of internal market legislation and the continuing flourishing and enduring relationship between the eu and switzerland have contributed to peace, prosperity and growth in europe over the last decades. i supported the report for all these reasons.
the decision on migration proves that the european union is unable to find a solution to the immigration crisis. in fact, the resolution adopted and the statements made by some of the leaders can be interpreted as an invitation to europe. it's not thousands of refugees coming to europe, it's hundreds of thousands of illegal immigrants, and if things don't change, millions. this year, 195 220 people have crossed the border illegally in hungary. this invasion threatens european identity, culture and the peace of the people. the hungarian government must stop applying the legislation that has lost its function, only then can it fulfill its duty to protect the country's sovereignty, while protecting the schengen borders. the immigration crisis must of course be seen from a humanitarian perspective, but at the same time we must not lose sight of one fundamental principle: europe belongs to europeans and hungary belongs to hungarians.
in writing. ‒ i could not vote in favour of today's resolution on migration and immigrants in europe, because it does not focus on the essential issues that reflect reality. the resolution does not even mention wars in syria or libya as a cause of this migration, nor is it tough enough on stopping trafficking networks. the hungarian people's party delegation cannot accept the commission's current migration package in this form, because it has not been able to provide answers to the burning questions that have been ringing for weeks. it does not clearly state that our primary task is to protect europe's external borders. the text does not clearly distinguish between genuine refugees and immigrants who risk their lives and those of their families in the hope of a better life to reach countries that distribute social benefits more widely and therefore do not want to cooperate with the authorities in other member states. the quota allocation mechanism in the package is not a sufficient solution to the present situation. the majority of immigrants, even after the allocation of quotas, will make their way to states with higher social assistance as soon as they have the opportunity. and until then, there's no point in talking much about quotas, about distribution, as long as the number of people entering the union by the thousands every day at europe's external borders is increasing, while only a fraction of them are eligible for refugee status.
in writing. ‒ i could not vote in favour of today's resolution on migration and immigrants in europe, because it does not focus on the essential issues that reflect reality. the resolution does not even mention wars in syria or libya as a cause of this migration, nor is it tough enough on stopping trafficking networks. the hungarian people's party delegation cannot accept the commission's current migration package in this form, because it has not been able to provide answers to the burning questions that have been ringing for weeks. it doesn't say clearly that our primary task is to protect europe's external borders. the text does not clearly distinguish between genuine refugees and immigrants who risk their lives and those of their families in the hope of a better life to reach countries that distribute social benefits more widely and therefore do not want to cooperate with the authorities in other member states. the quota allocation mechanism in the package is not a sufficient solution to the present situation. even after the allocation of quotas, most immigrants head for states with higher social assistance as soon as they can. and until then, there's no point in talking much about quotas, about distribution, as long as the number of people entering the union by the thousands every day at europe's external borders is increasing, while only a fraction of them are eligible for refugee status.
in writing. i could not vote in favour of today's resolution on migration and immigrants in europe, because it does not focus on the most important issues, which reflect reality. the resolution does not even mention wars in syria or libya as a cause of this migration, nor is it tough enough on stopping trafficking networks. the hungarian people's party delegation cannot accept the commission's current migration package in this form, because it has not been able to provide answers to the burning questions that have been ringing for weeks. it does not clearly state that our primary task is to protect europe's external borders. the text does not clearly distinguish between genuine refugees and immigrants who risk their lives and those of their families in the hope of a better life to reach countries that distribute social benefits more widely and therefore do not want to cooperate with the authorities in other member states. the quota allocation mechanism in the package is not a sufficient solution to the present situation. the majority of immigrants, even after the allocation of quotas, will make their way to states with higher social assistance as soon as they have the opportunity. and until then, there's no point in talking much about quotas, about distribution, as long as the number of people entering the union by the thousands every day at europe's external borders is increasing, while only a fraction of them are eligible for refugee status.
in writing. ‒ i could not vote in favour of today's resolution on migration and immigrants in europe, because it does not focus on the essential issues that reflect reality. the resolution does not even mention wars in syria or libya as the cause of this migration, nor is it tough enough on stopping trafficking networks. the hungarian people's party delegation cannot accept the commission's current migration package in this form, because it has not been able to provide answers to the burning questions that have been ringing for weeks. it doesn't say clearly that our primary task is to protect europe's external borders. the text does not clearly distinguish between genuine refugees and immigrants who risk their lives and those of their families in the hope of a better life to reach countries that distribute social benefits more widely and therefore do not want to cooperate with the authorities in other member states. the quota allocation mechanism in the package is not a sufficient solution to the present situation. the majority of immigrants, even after the allocation of quotas, will make their way to states with higher social assistance as soon as they have the opportunity. and until then, there's no point in talking much about quotas, about distribution, as long as the number of people entering the union by the thousands every day at europe's external borders is increasing, while only a fraction of them are eligible for refugee status.
in writing. ‒ i could not vote in favour of today's resolution on migration and immigrants in europe, because it does not focus on the essential issues that reflect reality. the resolution does not even mention wars in syria or libya as the cause of this migration, nor is it tough enough on stopping trafficking networks. the hungarian people's party delegation cannot accept the commission's current migration package in this form, because it has not been able to provide answers to the burning questions that have been ringing for weeks. it doesn't say clearly that our primary task is to protect europe's external borders. the text does not clearly distinguish between genuine refugees and immigrants who risk their lives and those of their families in the hope of a better life to reach countries that distribute social benefits more widely and therefore do not want to cooperate with the authorities in other member states. the quota allocation mechanism in the package is not a sufficient solution to the present situation. the majority of immigrants, even after the allocation of quotas, will make their way to states with higher social assistance as soon as they have the opportunity. and until then, there's no point in talking much about quotas, about distribution, as long as the number of people entering the union by the thousands every day at europe's external borders is increasing, while only a fraction of them are eligible for refugee status.
in writing. ‒ as a member of the hungarian people's party delegation, i could not vote for the keller report because it does not deal with real problems, and therefore does not provide a solution to the current crisis. mandatory quotas are not helping. the biggest problem is that today a fraction of the refugee influx is willing to register, to cooperate with the authorities, and to accept the refugee status of, say, poorer member states. most of them are heading for the member states that promise more social assistance, and they are doing everything they can to get there. it will do so after the quota allocation, moving as soon as possible to states where it can count on more social assistance. and in the meantime, there's no point in talking much about quotas, about distribution, as long as we can't protect europe's external borders, and the number of people entering the union by the thousands every day, while only a fraction of them are eligible for refugee status.
in writing. ‒ i could not vote in favour of today's resolution on migration and immigrants in europe, because it does not focus on the essential issues that reflect reality. the resolution does not even mention wars in syria or libya as a cause of this migration, nor is it tough enough on stopping trafficking networks. the hungarian people's party delegation cannot accept the commission's current migration package in this form, because it has not been able to provide answers to the burning questions that have been ringing for weeks. it does not clearly state that our primary task is to protect europe's external borders. the text does not clearly distinguish between genuine refugees and immigrants who risk their lives and those of their families in the hope of a better life to reach countries that distribute social benefits more widely and therefore do not want to cooperate with the authorities in other member states. the quota allocation mechanism in the package is not a sufficient solution to the present situation. the majority of immigrants, even after the allocation of quotas, will make their way as soon as possible to states where they can count on greater social assistance. and until then, there's no point in talking much about quotas, about distribution, as long as the number of people entering the union by the thousands every day at europe's external borders is increasing, while only a fraction of them are eligible for refugee status.
in writing. ‒ i could not vote in favour of today's resolution on migration and immigrants in europe, because it does not focus on the essential issues that reflect reality. the resolution does not even mention wars in syria or libya as the cause of this migration, nor is it tough enough on stopping trafficking networks. the hungarian people's party delegation cannot accept the commission's current migration package in this form, because it has not been able to provide answers to the burning questions that have been ringing for weeks. it doesn't say clearly that our primary task is to protect europe's external borders. the text does not clearly distinguish between genuine refugees and immigrants who risk their lives and those of their families in the hope of a better life to reach countries that distribute social benefits more widely and therefore do not want to cooperate with the authorities in other member states. the quota allocation mechanism in the package is not a sufficient solution to the present situation. the majority of immigrants, even after the allocation of quotas, will make their way to states with higher social assistance as soon as they have the opportunity. and until then, there's no point in talking much about quotas, about distribution, as long as the number of people entering the union by the thousands every day at europe's external borders is increasing, while only a fraction of them are eligible for refugee status.
in writing. ‒ seven groups (ppe, ecr, alde, gue/ngl, verts/ale, enf, s&d) tabled motions for resolutions on this subject, four of which, including my own group, s&d, have reached a compromise proposal. that's what i voted for.
in writing. ‒ i could not vote in favour of today's resolution on migration and immigrants in europe, because it does not focus on the essential issues that reflect reality. the resolution does not even mention wars in syria or libya as the cause of this migration, nor is it tough enough on stopping trafficking networks. the hungarian people's party delegation cannot accept the commission's current migration package in this form, because it has not been able to provide answers to the burning questions that have been ringing for weeks. it doesn't say clearly that our primary task is to protect europe's external borders. the text does not clearly distinguish between genuine refugees and immigrants who risk their lives and those of their families in the hope of a better life to reach countries that distribute social benefits more widely and therefore do not want to cooperate with the authorities in other member states. the quota allocation mechanism in the package is not a sufficient solution to the present situation. the majority of immigrants, even after the allocation of quotas, will make their way to states with higher social assistance as soon as they have the opportunity. and until then, there's no point in talking much about quotas, about distribution, as long as the number of people entering the union by the thousands every day at europe's external borders is increasing, while only a fraction of them are eligible for refugee status.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution, particularly as it is the most serious challenge facing the european union today, one that is testing european solidarity and for which the commission's proposals envisage not only short-term but also long-term structural measures. i agree that all member states should be obliged to take their share of the refugee allocation, and that governments that fail to do so should face eu sanctions. i think it is important, in the context of the whole process, that the use of european funds allocated to the reception of refugees is strictly controlled so that they can be used only for measures and campaigns for the benefit of refugees and not against them. i believe that this package of measures is only the first step towards tackling other types of migration with new community instruments and i wanted to contribute by voting to accelerate this process. i hope that this clear position of the european parliament will have an impact on the member states responsible for the actual measures, as well as on the council, and will lead to swift and effective action, in addition to the commission's proposals.
the european union wants to be an active player in the middle east peace process, and this is welcome. both the israeli and the palestinian sides have their own roles to play in the peace process. however, the adopted decision lacks some essential elements. the union calls for an end to the israeli occupation of the west bank, the gaza strip and east jerusalem. condemn the policy of collective punishment that israel is pursuing against the palestinian people. call for the release of palestinian political prisoners, including members of the legislative council. strongly condemn the increasing violence of the settlers. the current resolution, although a step forward on a similar subject compared to what was previously adopted by parliament, was not able to support it because of these shortcomings.
in writing. ‒ six groups (ecr, verts/ale, gue/ngl, alde, ppe, s&d) tabled a motion for a resolution on this subject, which has succeeded in producing a joint compromise proposal. i voted for the motion.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution because it is also a way for the european parliament to promote a greater and more meaningful role for the union in promoting the middle east peace process. i consider this an important objective, because it is really a european problem, because of the links with the refugee crisis and the rise in anti-semitism and terrorist acts in europe. i also consider it important that, by this resolution, the ep almost unanimously supports the active commitment shown by the high representative mogherini to facilitate the peace process. i also considered in my vote that credibility is a fundamental prerequisite for effective eu foreign policy action; this requires the objectivity and impartiality of our common policy, which we must continually demonstrate in our common documents such as this resolution and in practical steps. i supported the resolution as a strong reference for the european tasks ahead of us in improving the security, humanitarian and political situation of the palestinian population. however, i would have liked to see it in the text and i urge the eu to give equal weight to preventing terrorist acts from gaza and other palestinian territories, to curbing the influence of hamas and to setting up a strong palestinian administration to ensure this after the forthcoming elections. the sovereignty of israel and the legitimate security interests of its citizens should also be a lasting element of a credible and effective union policy in the middle east.
in writing. ‒ seven groups (ppe, ecr, efdd, gue/ngl, verts/ale, s&d, alde) tabled motions for resolutions on this subject, and six of them, including my own group, s&d, have come up with a compromise proposal. that's what i voted for.
in writing. ‒ the economic and financial crisis has led to an increase in poverty and social exclusion and long-term unemployment, placing disabled people at increased risk of poverty across the european union, and at the same time a dramatic increase in the number of european citizens unable to settle for more than a year. in addition to employment-enhancing instruments, more attention should be paid to solutions that can facilitate the reintegration into the labour market of people with even the most basic skills and non-competitive knowledge in the short term, so that they can exploit the benefits of more innovative solutions in the social economy later on. any improvement in the economic and financial situation in the member states should be accompanied by intensive support for inclusive and sustainable growth and quality employment. in order to transition them into the social economy, member states should promote lifelong learning among older workers and the long-term unemployed, including those with disabilities, who continue to face physical, information and communication barriers. member states should take into account best practices in adapting national tax systems to social enterprises and socially responsible investments and, where appropriate, increase tax benefits and incentives for such types of enterprises that employ vulnerable groups, such as persons with disabilities.
in writing. ‒ the economic and financial crisis has led to an increase in poverty and social exclusion and long-term unemployment, putting people with disabilities at increased risk of poverty across the european union, and a dramatic increase in the number of european citizens unable to settle for more than a year. in addition to employment-enhancing instruments, more attention should be paid to solutions that can facilitate the reintegration into the labour market of people with even the most basic skills and non-competitive knowledge in the short term, so that they can exploit the benefits of more innovative solutions in the social economy later on. any improvement in the economic and financial situation in the member states should be accompanied by intensive support for inclusive and sustainable growth and quality employment. in order to transition them into the social economy, member states should promote lifelong learning among older workers and the long-term unemployed, including those with disabilities, who continue to face physical, information and communication barriers. member states should take into account best practices in adapting national tax systems to social enterprises and socially responsible investments and, where appropriate, increase tax benefits and incentives for such types of enterprises that employ vulnerable groups, such as persons with disabilities.
in writing. the economic and financial crisis has led to an increase in poverty and social exclusion and in long-term unemployment, placing disabled people at increased risk of poverty across the european union, and a dramatic increase in the number of european citizens unable to settle for more than a year. in addition to employment-enhancing instruments, more attention should be paid to solutions that can facilitate the reintegration into the labour market of people with even the most basic skills and non-competitive knowledge in the short term, so that they can exploit the benefits of more innovative solutions in the social economy later on. any improvement in the economic and financial situation in the member states should be accompanied by intensive support for inclusive and sustainable growth and quality employment. in order to transition them into the social economy, member states should promote lifelong learning among older workers and the long-term unemployed, including those with disabilities, who continue to face physical, information and communication barriers. member states should take into account best practices in adapting national tax systems to social enterprises and socially responsible investments and, where appropriate, increase tax benefits and incentives for such types of enterprises that employ vulnerable groups, such as persons with disabilities.
in writing. ‒ the economic and financial crisis has led to an increase in poverty and social exclusion and long-term unemployment, putting people with disabilities at increased risk of poverty across the european union, and a dramatic increase in the number of european citizens unable to settle for more than a year. in addition to employment-enhancing instruments, more attention should be paid to solutions that can facilitate the reintegration into the labour market of people with even the most basic skills and non-competitive knowledge in the short term, so that they can exploit the benefits of more innovative solutions in the social economy later on. any improvement in the economic and financial situation in the member states should be accompanied by intensive support for inclusive and sustainable growth and quality employment. in order to transition them into the social economy, member states should promote lifelong learning among older workers and the long-term unemployed, including those with disabilities, who continue to face physical, information and communication barriers. member states should take into account best practices in adapting national tax systems to social enterprises and socially responsible investments and, where appropriate, increase tax benefits and incentives for such types of enterprises that employ vulnerable groups, such as persons with disabilities.
in writing. ‒ the economic and financial crisis has led to an increase in poverty and social exclusion and long-term unemployment, putting people with disabilities at increased risk of poverty across the european union, and a dramatic increase in the number of european citizens unable to settle for more than a year. in addition to employment-enhancing instruments, more attention should be paid to solutions that can facilitate the reintegration into the labour market of people with even the most basic skills and non-competitive knowledge in the short term, so that they can exploit the benefits of more innovative solutions in the social economy later on. any improvement in the economic and financial situation in the member states should be accompanied by intensive support for inclusive and sustainable growth and quality employment. in order to transition them into the social economy, member states should promote lifelong learning among older workers and the long-term unemployed, including those with disabilities, who continue to face physical, information and communication barriers. member states should take into account best practices in adapting national tax systems to social enterprises and socially responsible investments and, where appropriate, increase tax benefits and incentives for such types of enterprises that employ vulnerable groups, such as persons with disabilities.
in writing. ‒ the eu has set the path forward in the europe 2020 strategy and cannot give up on the very ambitious objectives it sets the eu has important short-term challenges to face such as economic and financial sustainability, social well-being and especially job creation, taking into account in particular the most vulnerable groups, such as young people, women and the elderly, the long-term unemployed. to achieve these goals, the social economy must play a central role. however, i think it is important to emphasise that social economy should not be confused with corporate social responsibility. social innovation and social enterprise therefore play a key role in the development of the social economy, which requires the promotion of education and training, improved funding, better visibility at european and national level, and the exchange of information and best practices, to promote the development of the social economy in the eu and in the member states, in order to create a more favourable legal environment.
in writing. ‒ the economic and financial crisis has led to an increase in poverty and social exclusion and long-term unemployment, putting people with disabilities at increased risk of poverty across the european union, and a dramatic increase in the number of european citizens unable to settle for more than a year. in addition to employment-enhancing instruments, more attention should be paid to solutions that can facilitate the reintegration into the labour market of people with even the most basic skills and non-competitive knowledge in the short term, so that they can exploit the benefits of more innovative solutions in the social economy later on. any improvement in the economic and financial situation in the member states should be accompanied by intensive support for inclusive and sustainable growth and quality employment. in order to transition them into the social economy, member states should promote lifelong learning among older workers and the long-term unemployed, including those with disabilities, who continue to face physical, information and communication barriers. member states should take into account best practices in adapting national tax systems to social enterprises and socially responsible investments and, where appropriate, increase tax benefits and incentives for such types of enterprises that employ vulnerable groups, such as persons with disabilities.
in writing. ‒ the economic and financial crisis has led to an increase in poverty and social exclusion and long-term unemployment, putting people with disabilities at increased risk of poverty across the european union, and a dramatic increase in the number of european citizens unable to settle for more than a year. in addition to employment-enhancing instruments, more attention should be paid to solutions that can facilitate the reintegration into the labour market of people with even the most basic skills and non-competitive knowledge in the short term, so that they can exploit the benefits of more innovative solutions in the social economy later on. any improvement in the economic and financial situation in the member states should be accompanied by intensive support for inclusive and sustainable growth and quality employment. in order to transition them into the social economy, member states should promote lifelong learning among older workers and the long-term unemployed, including those with disabilities, who continue to face physical, information and communication barriers. member states should take into account best practices in adapting national tax systems to social enterprises and socially responsible investments and, where appropriate, increase tax benefits and incentives for such types of enterprises that employ vulnerable groups, such as persons with disabilities.
in writing. ‒ the report states that the social economy must play a central role in achieving the eu's objectives. companies operating in the social economy have proven to be more resilient to economic shocks and have been able to offer innovative solutions for social cohesion and inclusion or job creation. in addition, social enterprises have strong links with local and regional daily life and can therefore offer solutions tailored to specific needs. it concludes that social innovation and social enterprise play a key role in the development of the social economy and that to stimulate this, progress is needed in the following areas:- education and training,- improvement of funding,- better visibility at european and national level and exchange of information and best practice,- promotion of the development of the social economy in the eu and the member states,- creation of a more favourable legal environment.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report, which provides a comprehensive overview of the challenges and benefits of social economies. i agree that social innovation is a major contributor to sustainable growth. i think this approach can work for smaller settlements, in the context of a so-called social eco-village. so i started a pilot project on this. i think one topic has been under-reported in the material, and that is that these companies can play a big role in reducing energy dependence across europe.
in writing. ‒ today, many studies conclude that automation will lead to the disappearance or significant reduction of existing jobs in the future. the creation of the digital single market, the completion of the energy union, investments in research and development, innovation and the development of transport networks also offer significant job creation opportunities. the employment of those with no or very low qualifications should also be strengthened, including support for persons with disabilities through improvement of working conditions and conditions, by introducing and supporting appropriate and effective incentives. special programmes to improve employability should be developed and implemented to re-integrate citizens who have been out of work for several years into the world of work. a financial and economic structure should be established to promote participation in continuing education and training, including the increasing number of persons with disabilities who, due to ageing, require access without barriers, including reasonable accommodation, as this will ensure that the workers of the future are highly qualified. the forecasting of future skills needs requires close involvement of labour market actors, including employers' and workers' organisations, and industry players at the forefront of it and robotics developments, at all levels. i voted in favour of the report on creating a competitive eu labour market for the 21st century.
in writing. ‒ in line with the guidelines of the european people's party, i voted in favour of the report on creating a competitive eu labour market for the 21st century. today, many studies conclude that automation will lead to the disappearance or significant reduction of a significant proportion of existing jobs in the future. the creation of the digital single market, the completion of the energy union, investments in research and development, innovation and the development of transport networks also offer significant job creation opportunities. the employment of those with no or very low qualifications should also be strengthened, including support for persons with disabilities through improvement of working conditions and conditions, by introducing and supporting appropriate and effective incentives. special programmes to improve employability should be developed and implemented to re-integrate citizens who have been out of work for several years into the world of work. a financial and economic structure should be established to promote participation in continuing education and training, including the increasing number of persons with disabilities who, due to ageing, require access without barriers, including reasonable accommodation, as this will ensure that the workers of the future are highly qualified. the forecasting of future skills needs requires close involvement of labour market actors, including employers' and workers' organisations, and industry players at the forefront of it and robotics developments, at all levels.
in writing. in line with the guidelines of the european people's party, i voted in favour of the report on creating a competitive eu labour market for the 21st century. today, many studies conclude that automation will lead to the disappearance or significant reduction of a significant proportion of existing jobs in the future. the creation of the digital single market, the completion of the energy union, investments in research and development, innovation and the development of transport networks also offer significant job creation opportunities. the employment of those with no or very low qualifications should also be strengthened, including support for persons with disabilities through improvement of working conditions and conditions, by introducing and supporting appropriate and effective incentives. special programmes to improve employability should be developed and implemented to re-integrate citizens who have been out of work for several years into the world of work. a financial and economic structure should be established to promote participation in continuing education and training, including the increasing number of persons with disabilities who, due to ageing, require access without barriers, including reasonable accommodation, as this will ensure that the workers of the future are highly qualified. the forecasting of future skills needs requires close involvement of labour market actors, including employers' and workers' organisations, and industry players at the forefront of it and robotics developments, at all levels.
in writing. ‒ in line with the guidelines of the european people's party, i voted in favour of the report on creating a competitive eu labour market for the 21st century. today, many studies conclude that automation will lead to the disappearance or significant reduction of a significant proportion of existing jobs in the future. the creation of the digital single market, the completion of the energy union, investments in research and development, innovation and the development of transport networks also offer significant job creation opportunities. the employment of those with no or very low qualifications should also be strengthened, including support for persons with disabilities through improvement of working conditions and conditions, by introducing and supporting appropriate and effective incentives. special programmes to improve employability should be developed and implemented to re-integrate citizens who have been out of work for several years into the world of work. a financial and economic structure should be established to promote participation in continuing education and training, including the increasing number of persons with disabilities who, due to ageing, require access without barriers, including reasonable accommodation, as this will ensure that the workers of the future are highly qualified. the forecasting of future skills needs requires close involvement of labour market actors, including employers' and workers' organisations, and industry players at the forefront of it and robotics developments, at all levels.
in writing. ‒ in line with the guidelines of the european people's party, i voted in favour of the report on creating a competitive eu labour market for the 21st century. today, many studies conclude that automation will lead to the disappearance or significant reduction of a significant proportion of existing jobs in the future. the creation of the digital single market, the completion of the energy union, investments in research and development, innovation and the development of transport networks also offer significant job creation opportunities. the employment of those with no or very low qualifications should also be strengthened, including support for persons with disabilities through improvement of working conditions and conditions, by introducing and supporting appropriate and effective incentives. special programmes to improve employability should be developed and implemented to re-integrate citizens who have been out of work for several years into the world of work. a financial and economic structure should be established to promote participation in continuing education and training, including the increasing number of persons with disabilities who, due to ageing, require access without barriers, including reasonable accommodation, as this will ensure that the workers of the future are highly qualified. the forecasting of future skills needs requires close involvement of labour market actors, including employers' and workers' organisations, and industry players at the forefront of it and robotics developments, at all levels.
in writing. ‒ unemployment remains one of the biggest challenges in the european union. statistical data support the fact that the economic and financial crisis is still having an impact. while there are signs of recovery, the labour market has been steadily contracting in recent years and job creation is slow. i therefore welcome the ambitious economic policies and labour market reforms that aim to deliver smart, sustainable and inclusive growth and boost job creation. the report stresses that to create a competitive labour market, reforms are needed to increase labour market and career flexibility and to match skills to job opportunities, and to strengthen synergies between education systems and enterprises. i support the report's emphasis on continuing education and training as being of great importance in creating a competitive eu labour market, leading to growth and improved employment.
in writing. ‒ in line with the guidelines of the european people's party, i voted in favour of the report on creating a competitive eu labour market for the 21st century. today, many studies conclude that automation will lead to the disappearance or significant reduction of a significant proportion of existing jobs in the future. the creation of the digital single market, the completion of the energy union, investments in research and development, innovation and the development of transport networks also offer significant job creation opportunities. the employment of those with no or very low qualifications should also be strengthened, including support for persons with disabilities through improvement of working conditions and conditions, by introducing and supporting appropriate and effective incentives. special programmes to improve employability should be developed and implemented to re-integrate citizens who have been out of work for several years into the world of work. a financial and economic structure should be established to promote participation in continuing education and training, as this will ensure that the workers of the future are highly qualified. the forecasting of future skills needs requires close involvement of labour market actors, including employers' and workers' organisations, and industry players at the forefront of it and robotics developments, at all levels.
in writing. ‒ in line with the guidelines of the european people's party, i voted in favour of the report on creating a competitive eu labour market for the 21st century. today, many studies conclude that automation will lead to the disappearance or significant reduction of a significant proportion of existing jobs in the future. the creation of the digital single market, the completion of the energy union, investments in research and development, innovation and the development of transport networks also offer significant job creation opportunities. the employment of those with no or very low qualifications should also be strengthened, including support for persons with disabilities through improvement of working conditions and conditions, by introducing and supporting appropriate and effective incentives. special programmes to improve employability should be developed and implemented to re-integrate citizens who have been out of work for several years into the world of work. a financial and economic structure should be established to promote participation in continuing education and training, including the increasing number of persons with disabilities who, due to ageing, require access without barriers, including reasonable accommodation, as this will ensure that the workers of the future are highly qualified. the forecasting of future skills needs requires close involvement of labour market actors, including employers' and workers' organisations, and industry players at the forefront of it and robotics developments, at all levels.
in writing. ‒ the report highlights the importance of supporting self-employment and business support initiatives for smes and micro-enterprises. measures to support the acquisition of skilled labour and the training of future workers are needed, and measures to encourage entrepreneurs to invest in vocational training and apprenticeship training. the report also calls for a greater focus on teaching leadership and entrepreneurship skills at an early age. it encourages the prioritisation of innovation and digitalisation, which requires the necessary knowledge and skills, and the motivation and commitment of employees to create innovative products and services. it stresses that the creation of the digital single market, the completion of the energy union, investments in research and development, innovation and the development of transport networks have significant job creation potential. it stresses the importance of training and retraining programmes for the unemployed.
in writing. ‒ despite its many positive features, i did not vote in favour of the report, mainly because it should have painted a more realistic picture of the unemployment situation. i'll just give you an example. i think that perhaps not in all member states, but in hungary for example, the data is heavily distorted: the public employment system, which provides about 160 euros per month, is taken into account, in addition to the fact that people who take up work abroad and people who work even one hour a week are considered to be employed in the same way as full-time workers. it should also be mentioned that it would be important to speed up the work of eurostat at eu level, where data are processed with a delay of 2-3 years, so in my opinion they do not reflect timeliness. in addition to statistical data, i am pleased that the report sets out a number of important solutions for creating an efficient labour market. i think that the concept of a european minimum wage, which i have mentioned on several occasions, is very important. the report rightly calls on the commission and the member states to introduce a european framework for minimum wages with the aim of addressing wage disparities by means of a basic level per member state to guarantee a fair income in accordance with national practice by law or by agreement.
in writing. ‒ i welcome the commission's 30th and 31st annual reports on the control of the application of eu law, which monitor and assess infringement procedures in the problem areas of transport, health, consumer protection, nature protection, the internal market and services. however, i also consider it important to stress that this ex post evaluation cannot replace the commission's task of monitoring the application of union law in an effective and timely manner, i also support the proposal that parliament should assist the commission in monitoring the implementation of legislation through its controls.
the interior ministers have met to find a solution to the migrant crisis. i can't do that. they are like a doctor who prescribes more and more painkillers and fever painkillers for a worsening patient. there is no proper diagnosis. it's not that we're seeing more refugees than we've seen in years. it's a population migration, with chaotic scenes, sometimes you could call it an invasion. yes, there is a need for solidarity, there is a need for empathy for the fallen, but i, as a hungarian representative, must be in solidarity with the hungarian population. those who believe that their goal is to keep europe for europeans and hungary for hungarians. to do this, a real and adequate solution must be found, the first step of which is to close the eu's borders.
i'm sorry to have to use my precious 1 minute to refute what you just said about hungary, because these are all slip-ups. this is not about the news that you announced here, that the 300 refugees who are fighting with the hungarian police right now, did not want to enter hungary through the entry points, the designated entry points, legally, but at all costs want to break through the fence and throw stones at the hungarian police from the serbian side. i ask them which one of them is the real refugee who would rather get into a fight with the police than register at a designated point of entry. the problem is that we are hypocritical in admitting that most of them are not real refugees, would not qualify for asylum in the union, and therefore want to avoid registration at all costs. it is hypocritical to talk about solidarity without mentioning the need to protect the external borders. it's hypocritical to attack the fence if we don't have a better way to get people to come not at the green line, but at legal entry points.
in writing. a dramatic situation has developed in hungary as a result of the mass influx of immigrants. by early september, there were nearly 160,000 illegal border crossings on hungary's southern border. the large number of migrants arriving in hungary shows that the western balkan migration route has been evaluated, and therefore hungary is also responsible. the continuous, almost endless supply of immigration is a cause for concern. so it's important to remember that as politicians, our words carry weight and we need to stop the irresponsible statements that continue to encourage immigration. the current situation may have arisen because the eu's immigration policy has not been able to respond to the ever-growing migratory pressure. all eu countries should protect the eu's external borders, as hungary does. in the absence of a unified eu position, illegal immigrants will find alternative routes, either through croatia or romania. hungary is interested in a common european action, but until this is achieved, it will do everything possible to keep the process within the eu legal framework (schengen, dublin iii). if the other member states of the union do not do the same, then schengen, free movement, is in danger. the commission's proposed quota system is not a solution, however, but merely a symptomatic treatment which would further complicate the situation with indefinite relocations between member states. the solution must be sought outside europe, more specifically in cooperation with countries of origin and transit.
in writing. border closures, barbed wire, police dogs, soldiers, broken families, thousands of desperate people. this picture is not of turkey, or of our distant neighbour, but of a member state of the eu, hungary. at the hungarian-serbian border, i have personally witnessed how the hungarian authorities have ignored the basic principles of humanity and human rights in their treatment of the people who have walked hundreds and thousands of kilometres, including women and children. the hungarian authorities are currently rejecting all asylum applications, citing the fact that refugees arrive in hungary via serbia, which the hungarian government considers safe. after expulsion, refugees receive a decision in hungarian, on the basis of which they can appeal against the decision. however, the decision is only made in hungarian and after the deportation, the refugees cannot appeal against the judgment in the court of szeged. what is this if not cruelty? today, a humanitarian catastrophe is unfolding on the borders of hungary. the hungarian government is pursuing a policy of strength in weakness, and it only calls for european solidarity and responsibility when it needs money. the answer to the refugee crisis is not barbed wire or inhuman treatment, but the solution is a quota system. if the hungarian government continues to obstruct the development of a common refugee policy, it risks losing further eu funding. it seems that the hungarian prime minister is now not only harming refugees, but also endangering the interests of all hungarians.
in writing. unfortunately, the council meeting was of little consequence. a few narrow-minded national leaders have enslaved the entire european institutional system, effectively hindering effective and rapid crisis management. it is disappointing that this group is led by the prime minister of my country, viktor orbán. i was shocked to hear that the hungarian government refused to accept hungary as a front country. if so, why did you declare an emergency for refugees? why did you send the army to the border? why do they have barbed wire everywhere? i spent monday and tuesday of this week on the hungarian-serbian border. it is difficult to describe the vulnerability and insecurity that refugees face. it is shameful how unprofessional and cynical the hungarian government is in dealing with the situation that threatens to cause a humanitarian catastrophe. after a brief process of a few hours, all asylum applications are rejected, saying that the applicant came through serbia, which is considered safe. the rejected people, including women and children, are stuck in the no man's land between the fence and serbia. is this the europe we represent? is this the 'solution' that european citizens expect from us? it's time to act! let's put aside the partisan politics and the petty political tactics. let us make it clear that the vast majority of europeans do not want a selfish and inhuman policy based on narrow nationalism, and that there are very serious consequences for a member state that violates the fundamental values of the european union.
in writing. in the face of the refugee crisis, the commission, as one of the european institutions, has drawn up an urgent and substantive package of measures, which we have provided with the political support of the ep, including the sharing of the burden of reception under a binding quota system based on an agreement. this is natural, since the whole functioning of the union, and the sharing of the burdens and benefits arising from it, is governed by rules drawn up jointly on the basis of solidarity, if you will, 'quotas'. it is therefore intolerable that in an urgent situation, with the disregard of both human and practical considerations, our effective joint action at council level should once again appear to be thwarted by the selfish domestic political and tactical considerations of some member states. it is unfortunate that the most extreme example of this is provided by the hungarian government, but as a shameful fact, i draw attention here to the peculiarity that the measures of orbán, in addition to excluding and humiliating refugees, also aim to persecute and punish their own citizens who try to help them. it is time for the union to create its own capacity and means to deal with such inhuman, unrestrained behaviour by member states which makes joint european action impossible. it is not just the council, since the european people's party, which is still tolerating orbán and fidesz in the european parliament, would have the task of legitimising this outrage by visiting budapest and making conciliar statements there.
in writing. 2015 holds an unusual opportunity: it coincides with a number of key un summits, including the financing for development summit, the 2030 agenda for sustainable development and the sustainable development goals (sdgs) summit, and the 21st meeting of the parties to the framework convention on climate change (cop21) in paris. the latter's main objective is to keep the increase in global average temperature below 2°c in order to avoid catastrophic and irreversible changes due to climate change, while the sdgs, among others, aim to eradicate poverty by 2030. these goals, and more broadly, the issues of climate change, development and sustainable development, are inseparable - just think of climate refugees who have fled their homes because of drought, food shortages, natural disasters. as the un high level advisory body has emphasised, in order to avoid the weakening of each measure, one must think in terms of a coherent framework, focusing on human dignity and human rights, with ambitious, binding and mutually reinforcing objectives, transparent implementation frameworks, milestones and feedback loops. this is the direction the eu must take consistently and take decisive steps towards a sustainable world economy that goes beyond conventional energy sources, is resilient and is resilient to the adverse effects of climate change. the transition should involve local actors (including indigenous peoples in the most vulnerable areas) and build on their knowledge, adaptability and capacity. proportional funding, technology transfer and capacity building are also essential.
the union's climate objectives should be achieved at national level, while the energy mix is a national competence, and it should be recognised that some countries want to achieve this through the use of nuclear energy. in preparation for the paris climate summit, the panel set itself more ambitious goals than ambitious ones. and i quote the written material: greenhouse gas emissions reduction by 2030: 50% reduction, renewable energy share by 2030: 45%. these goals are unrealistic and unjustified. it's unrealistic because it doesn't take into account the cost impact that will be in the consumer price, and it's unjustified because the eu is responsible for 9 percent of emissions, and the us and china are responsible for 35 percent, so the key thing in paris will be whether we can get these emitters to commit. (the intervener agrees to answer a question for a blue card under article 162 (8) of the rules of procedure)
it's a two-card draw. i would like to ask the honourable member that, although he has spoken very nicely about national powers, what is the point of pushing for the expansion of the paks nuclear power plant, which is the most expensive in the world, or at least one of the most expensive sources of energy, and which serves exclusively russian interests, russian financial interests?
that's a two-card answer. since mr. szanyi, in this matter, has not succeeded in finding sufficient arguments in the hungarian parliament to preserve the existing capacity of the hungarian nuclear power plant, which is originally russian technology, and therefore the expansion is also carried out under favourable conditions in such an investment, i can say that if you are stating newly unrealistic facts at the level of the european parliament, they are just as untrue as in the hungarian parliament.
it's a two-card draw. - mr. speaker, i have to ask you to excuse me. i do not wish to dispute your main assertions, but rather to ask your opinion on a particular issue, namely, for decades, and even now, we have been spending millions, hundreds of millions, billions of euros to support agriculture, to intervene in the market. other industries and some governments impose vat rates as high as 27 percent on food. could this not be solved, this whole problem, by exempting basic foods, or even all foods, from vat, as is done in many member states?
in writing. the dairy sector is also in a serious crisis in hungary, with the purchase price of raw milk falling to historic lows, currently around 24 euro cents per litre, which does not cover production costs, which are around 35 euro cents per litre. the situation is even worse in romania, where the fall in the purchase price stopped at around 10 euro cents. thank you to the european commission, and in particular to you, for providing €420 million in emergency aid to eu milk producers and pig farmers. but that's only enough to put out the fire, not to put it out. it is not clear when the fall in producer prices will end. the only two effective instruments now available are the at least temporary increase in the intervention price for skimmed milk powder, butter and pigmeat and the temporary activation of export refunds. i think you are right that the systematic increase in intervention prices in the milk sector would send a bad message to farmers who are already overproducing milk. they would increase their production even more, and thus would actually create butter mountains and milk lakes. but the problem is so great that only the above-mentioned tools can really help. the artificial increase in the price of raw milk would be offset in the medium term by the slow growth of demand on the world market, in particular in the middle and far east. the quantities held in intervention stocks can therefore be sold over time. so instead of the absolute security approach, this is the bold step that we should take.
the imposition of sanctions against russia was intended to weaken the russian economy and further weaken the position of president putin. the sanctions have not served their purpose. eu trade was replaced by other partners, and some of the production was shifted to the eu itself, but many eu countries suffered serious losses from the sanctions. in conclusion, germany is doing a great job with gazprom on nord stream 2. one element of resolving the flow of migrants would be to stabilize the situation in syria. it was said here in parliament that this would require the involvement of russia, and cooperation with russia. i believe that the political climate would also help such important cooperation by removing sanctions that have not been implemented and are not producing results.
i could not accept the motion for a resolution on the work of the commission and voted against it. the decision does not constitute a turnaround that could be expected to solve the union's fundamental problems. economic governance is characterised by an increasing centralisation of economic policy, which deprives the member states, parliament and the government of the power to set their own budgets. it gives the indebted countries of the periphery no hope of getting out of the debt trap. he doesn't want to solve the immigration crisis, he's just trying to treat it. and he is clearly in favour of the eu-us free trade agreement. i have one minute to go and i will not go into the reasons why it is perhaps understandable that this was an unacceptable proposal.
in writing. ‒ the text of the resolution was tabled by seven political groups (epp, greens/efa, efdd, ecr, alde, s&d, gue/ngl), four of which (epp, greens/efa, alde, s&d) tabled a joint compromise motion withdrawing their own proposal. i voted for this bill.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution, hoping that the compromises reached will enable the european parliament to take a meaningful and strong position on a number of issues, and thus to express its political views and expectations on the commission's activities for the coming year. as a socialist representative, i attach particular importance to the inclusion of social aspects in the implementation of all the commission's activities, including its initiatives and tasks relating to the management of the economic crisis, and i have now found that there are sufficient emphases in this respect in the proposal as a whole. i also wanted to contribute by my vote to ensuring that the european parliament would continue to give the commission stable political support in the coming period in addressing the challenges of lack of solidarity in the member states, in acting to uphold fundamental rights and in applying the community method more effectively in general. i also consider it important that, as a result of a proper update, the decision pays due attention to the seriousness of the situation and to the european legislative, financial and security tasks arising from the short and long-term management of the refugee and migration crisis, both from a political and practical point of view.
in writing. ‒ today, the european parliament voted in an emergency procedure on the european commission's proposal for migration relocation, which would make hungary a frontline country. this text is unacceptable to the hungarian people's party delegation in its present form, and i therefore did not vote in favour of the parliament's decision or the commission's proposal in its present form. although hungary does not shy away from discussing an asylum mechanism to resolve the situation, it does not want to become a frontline state. the european commission made the second relocation proposal without consulting the hungarian government, which would make hungary a beneficiary in addition to greece and italy. this is a trap, because it would not help hungary, but would partly transfer the role and burden of greece to it, forcing it to establish so-called hotspots where asylum applications are received, processed and distributed among the different member states. hungary is a transit state, the classification of a front state is unacceptable without prior consultation with the hungarian government. this does not mean that hungary does not wish to participate in the development of a future mechanism which is under negotiation, but it does mean that it does not wish to be included in the beneficiary pillar alongside greece.
in writing. ‒ today, the european parliament voted in an emergency procedure on the european commission's proposal for migration relocation, which would make hungary a frontline country. this text is unacceptable to the hungarian people's party delegation in its present form, and i therefore did not vote in favour of the parliament's decision or the commission's proposal in its present form. although hungary does not shy away from discussing an asylum mechanism to resolve the situation, it does not want to become a frontline state. the european commission made the second relocation proposal without consulting the hungarian government, which would make hungary a beneficiary in addition to greece and italy. this is a trap, because it would not help hungary, but would partly transfer the role and burden of greece to it, forcing it to establish so-called hotspots where asylum applications are received, processed and distributed among the different member states. hungary is a transit state, the classification of a front state is unacceptable without prior consultation with the hungarian government. this does not mean that hungary does not wish to participate in the development of a future mechanism which is under negotiation, but it does mean that it does not wish to be included in the beneficiary pillar alongside greece.
in writing. ‒ i am firmly convinced that the current refugee crisis can only be tackled by european solidarity and cooperation. the beginning of this european cooperation is this motion for a resolution, which was voted by the european democratic left and the european democratic right in full unity, with the support of the christian democratic people's party, the left, the liberals and the greens. i'm glad to join this democratic unit.
in writing. ‒ today, the european parliament voted in an emergency procedure on the european commission's proposal for migration relocation, which would make hungary a frontline country. this text is unacceptable to the hungarian people's party delegation in its present form, and i therefore did not vote in favour of the parliament's decision or the commission's proposal in its present form. although hungary does not shy away from discussing an asylum mechanism to resolve the situation, it does not want to become a frontline state. the european commission made the second relocation proposal without consulting the hungarian government, which would make hungary a beneficiary in addition to greece and italy. this is a trap, because it would not help hungary, but would partly transfer the role and burden of greece to it, forcing it to establish so-called hotspots where asylum applications are received, processed and distributed among the different member states. hungary is a transit state, the classification of a front state is unacceptable without prior consultation with the hungarian government. this does not mean that hungary does not wish to participate in the development of a future mechanism which is under negotiation, but it does mean that it does not wish to be included in the beneficiary pillar alongside greece.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution because, faced with the refugee crisis, the commission, as one of the european institutions, has finally drawn up an urgent and substantive package of measures, which must be secured by our strong political support from the ep. this includes the sharing of the burden of reception under a mandatory quota system based on an agreement, which i believe is natural, since the whole functioning of the union, and the sharing of the burdens and benefits that result from it, is governed by rules and quotas that have been jointly developed on the basis of solidarity. i also wanted to express my vote by saying that i think it is intolerable that in an urgent situation - with the exception of both human and practical considerations - our effective joint action at council level should once again appear to be failing because of the selfish domestic political and tactical considerations of some member states. unfortunately, the most extreme example of this is provided by the hungarian government, whose measures aim not only to exclude and humiliate refugees, but also to persecute and punish its own citizens who try to help them. i believe that the time has come for the union to create its own capacity and means to deal with such unrestrained behaviour by member states which makes joint european action impossible, and i hope that our decision on the refugee question is a step in that direction.
the question is whether this eu money will help to rebuild the greek economy and the very poor greek people. and the answer is the same as for other countries, especially peripheral countries, namely, it depends. it depends on what procedures, what decision-making mechanisms are in place to allocate this money and who gets this money. if it's going to be in fair and transparent procedures, to fair greek small businesses, medium-sized businesses, small farmers, and the public money will serve the public good - say, to improve the health situation in greece - then yes, that money will help the recovery. but if it happens, as in my country, with a lot of eu money, with a lot of resources, that corrupt decision-makers put that money in the hands of political oligarchs, it's not going to help you get back on your feet. and i would like to emphasize that, just as in hungary, with respect to eu grants, so in greece, with respect to these funds, the european union would have an obligation to check whether these funds are distributed in fair and transparent procedures.
in writing. in view of the exceptional economic circumstances in greece, i support the commission's proposal for specific measures for greece in the plenary vote this week. in addition to my vote in favour, i would like to stress a number of points about the commission's amendment. in particular, i consider it essential to monitor more closely the proper use of the surcharges. i would also like to point out that the proposal ignores a number of important principles such as co-financing, subsidiarity, additionality or equal treatment. these principles are fundamental to cohesion policy, and i therefore support the commission's amendment proposal in view of greece's specific situation, but i consider it important that it be a one-off and individual measure and not set a precedent, without affecting the future shape of cohesion policy. i also believe that the commission should avoid making similar amendment proposals in the future merely on the initiative of the euro summit, since this would undermine the participation of non-euro area member states in the decision-making process. last but not least, i believe that the real budgetary implications should be clarified as soon as possible. it is important that the proposals contained in the commission's draft do not involve any modification of the multiannual financial framework and do not affect cohesion resources for greece or the other member states.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your support. in recent months, the migration crisis has dominated the political and public attention in europe, with the situation in ukraine taking a back seat. on october 25, local elections will be held in ukraine, which transcarpathian hungarians had high hopes for. ukraine, which proclaims its european orientation and democratic reforms, is again creating obstacles to the representation of national minorities living in the country, including hungarians. i would like to express my outrage and protest against the discriminatory and unlawful decision of the ukrainian central election commission, which has arranged the electoral districts in transcarpathia, the westernmost province of ukraine, where 12% of the population is hungarian, in a mosaic fashion, to prevent hungarian representatives from entering the county council. these decisions violate international and european commitments, the ukrainian constitution and laws. it's not even in line with the decentralization reform. i therefore believe that the european union must pay greater attention to ensuring that the elections are held in a transparent manner, in accordance with european standards.
mr president, last year an eu fund of eur 100 million was diverted to a strange hungarian cooperative called eszosz that undertook an employment project for low-skilled people for a five-year period in one of the poorest regions of hungary. the people who took part in that programme received their salaries only in the very first months, if at all, and then this mysterious cooperative disappeared into the dust. two thousand eight hundred people and their families are now facing serious difficulties and are left without any income and even any hope. the hungarian government, which has played a decisive role in the escalation of the situation – with the official labour services taking an active part in the recruitment – has done absolutely nothing to help these vulnerable people. at the same time, as a consequence of anti-european propaganda by the government, public opinion now tends to blame the european union. of course, there is also a strong suspicion of misuse of european funds. therefore, here again, i urge the involvement of the commission and the european anti-fraud office, olaf.
in writing. agriculture and the food industry are of particular importance in the hungarian economy. the same is true of wine production, which is closely linked to these industries, but the country has a number of other products of traditionally high quality outside the agricultural area. internationally recognised designations such as the segepe pepper, the gyula sausage, the mako onion, the tokaji wine or the wild bull's blood not only contribute to the image of the country of origin, but also maintain the quality requirements of the products and provide significant added market value through protection in the form of collective rights. the concept of geographical indications is applied in general to all the indications used in the market to identify the geographical origin of products. at present, at european level, the protection of origin granted by geographical indications applies only to agricultural products which fulfil the conditions. this own-initiative report calls on the european commission to come forward with a legislative proposal covering products which are not agricultural products but which, due to their traditional production, form part of europe's cultural heritage. i think this is a good idea, and i suggest that we study the concept of the hungarian hungarians, which is already well established.
mr president, the european community of nations, the union, was created to put an end to centuries of warfare, nationalist selfishness, and bloody competition between european countries, and to become a deeply cooperative community of interests and values. the refugee crisis that we are facing cannot be a problem for a union of 500 million. in case this union is healthy. but we can see that this system is sick. and if the organism is sick, it's more susceptible to being overcome by viruses, and there's a virus that has entered the institutional system, and that's again the selfishness of individual political leaders, individual heads of government, playing games of domestic politics. that is why i ask mr juncker where is the report that was promised to us for september, which we adopted in june, for example, on the anti-democratic and anti-european measures of the hungarian government. i would also like to add, mr president, that hungary is not only the face of the orbán government, which you have seen on television, but also the face of the many thousands, tens of thousands of people who have helped refugees as civilians and volunteers, many of whom are sitting here on the podium, to show them that europe has a future. (the intervener agrees to answer a question referred for a preliminary ruling (article 162 (8) of the rules of procedure). )
it's a two-card draw. my colleague from uzhhel came from szeged. would you help the european parliament in its decision-making in the context of the migrant crisis, or migration crisis, by explaining the problems and difficulties that the mass immigration, the mass illegal border crossing, has caused to the residents of the szeged area, szeged, asotthalom and the rest? i think your direct experience as a local representative can help you make good decisions.
that's a two-card answer. indeed, i was elected mp for 12 years in the city and region where the world has now seen the most horrible images of the arrival of refugees, where the orbán government has started to put up the barbed wire fence, my house is a few kilometers away. and i inform you, madam deputy, and you know this very well, that hungary and hungarian society would not have taken this problem in this way if the hungarian government had not made a provocative political campaign for domestic political reasons. your extremist party and the increasingly radical, increasingly selfish extremist fidesz, which created this problem and this bad image of hungary. please return to humanity and solidarity.
mr president, commission president jean-claude juncker regrets that the council of ministers of the interior has not reached a unanimous decision on the quota issue, adding that there are domestic political reasons for this. yes, domestic politics, because there are governments that take into account the will of the citizens. the french foreign minister has attacked hungary in an unqualified way for protecting the borders. of the 56,000 respondents in france, 88% agreed with the fence. and donald tusk sees the biggest challenge as protecting europe's reputation. europe is the most open, tolerant society in the world. that is not the challenge, the challenge is to protect european identity and culture. if you are a democrat, let us together make possible the institution of the eu referendum and see what the european people's will is on this grave issue.
in writing. while it is good news that the european council's extraordinary decision has preserved european solidarity with refugees and between member states, it is also regrettable that this solidarity is somewhat superficial, since the 120,000-person quota agreed by member states is a fraction of what is actually needed. it is a historical mistake, however, that some countries, including hungary, opposed the agreement. the hungarian government has questioned solidarity and cooperation both at our borders and at the negotiating tables, and has defied basic humanitarian obligations. all this has undermined hungary's good reputation, but unfortunately in the long run it can also have a negative impact on the openness and helpfulness of society with its constant search for enemies and negative propaganda. fortunately, there is another hungary: a significant part of society has moved, set an example, and many citizens and ngos have offered a helping hand to refugees. similar examples and decisive action are needed in europe. we need not only quotas, but a new comprehensive asylum policy to replace the dublin system, while protecting the schengen acquis. adequate border protection and refugee registration should be achieved while allowing member states to fully comply with their human rights and humanitarian obligations and ensuring the free movement of european citizens. in the meantime, the european union must help to resolve the syrian conflict and provide support to refugees in neighbouring countries on the ground.
in writing. i appreciate that the outcome of the meeting was at least to outline for the heads of state or government a common approach to the refugee crisis, which is presenting europe with a historic challenge. however, this time too, the unity needed for implementation has not been achieved, as some leaders - above all the hungarian prime minister - continue to put their own political interests first in this dramatic situation, undermining the common eu solution. moreover, it has been shown that while negotiations behind closed doors are sometimes more effective, they have the major disadvantage of providing an opportunity for abusive external communication by inclined, incorrect politicians. orbán is trying to use the meeting on 23 september to convince - unfortunately, not without success - his domestic political audience that the leaders of the member states negotiated on his proposals and that, in the face of the union's general inaction, measures to promote a solution were taken under his pressure. i think it is important that the members of the eit, and especially president tusk, recognize the dangers of this in terms of influencing hungarian and european public opinion as a whole, and to stand up to the widest possible public against statements that are disparaging both to refugees and to the eu. the ep's task is also urgent: just as the s&ds have held the slovak prime minister accountable for speaking out against the party's principles, so the epp can be expected to finally take a firm stand against orbán's disruptive, anti-eu and inhumane policies.
it's a two-card draw. i have two quick questions. one is: are we expecting member states to protect the schengen border in accordance with european rules? in the case of hungary, this is the first question. second, the hungarian border was crossed by 300,000 people through serbia and croatia. these are safe countries. those who have really fled their country as political refugees, in serbia, in croatia, are in a safe country. why are they going to germany? because they've become, in effect, economic refugees.
mr president, there is much to welcome in the decisions of the informal european council and the home affairs council. this is indeed the way to go. may i, nevertheless, point out two things? one is that the eu candidate countries of the western balkans, on the direct land route of migration could have been – and should have been – invited at least to the informal council. politicians, especially from the former soviet bloc, should have been more keenly aware of the difference between making decisions for someone and with someone. anyway, history teaches us that messing up the western balkans is not necessarily a very good idea. i would also remind our colleagues in the council that taking a decision by a qualified majority – which i personally welcome – is a courageous step only if they are willing to go the whole way. unless there is a willingness to go the whole way and have sanctions for non-compliance, this just adds to the political theatre on this question – of which we already have too much.
mr president, i am shocked to hear the malicious, biased and untrue attacks repeatedly made against hungary. it's about reversing the law that's in place, when we should be focusing on effectively supporting genuine refugees. to provide effective assistance to those living in the large refugee camps in the middle east. they are the real refugees, not the ones who throw concrete at the hungarian border or who stage a siege at calais. we should concentrate on cooperation with third countries where people in need can receive adequate humanitarian aid without risking their lives. where it is still possible to determine, without loss of life, who may qualify for refugee status. this would prevent thousands of people from vomiting in an inhuman way, and when they reach their destination, they would find that they cannot remain in the union. we need to speak with responsibility, we need to act with solidarity, we need to provide humanitarian aid, we need to protect the external borders of the union. we will enforce the eu rules with everyone and we will say, we will say honestly, that we cannot accommodate everyone. just so we can help the refugees who are really in need. and i think everything else is gonna be a hypocrite sooner or later.
you can love viktor orbán and the hungarian government or not, but one thing is certain: on the issue of mass illegal migration, they express the opinion of the majority of hungarian people, both in words and in their actions. moreover, they express the opinion of the majority of the european people by wanting to protect their country and wanting to protect europe. maybe our liberal friends remember that this used to be what they called "democracy". when decision-makers were not forced to believe the ideas of a small elite and the media that most people thought were bizarre, but were told the opinions of the people. and there was a term called "freedom of speech". our friends in the west have come to take it for granted that mass illegal immigration is something that should only be discussed in the kitchen and in private. this is over now.
in writing. i consider it extremely important that the western balkan candidate countries, and in particular serbia, are given a prominent place in the eu institutions' migration resolution processes. when we consider that the bulk of land-based refugees are arriving in the eu via this so-called balkan route and the approach of cold weather, two things become clear: the need for the commission to treat serbia and the other western balkan candidate countries as serious partners. where possible, it should be treated in this respect as is the case in the member states. serbia is an island between eu member states and therefore cannot be bypassed in the search for european solutions. and closely related to this, i think it is right to expect the european commission to show maximum efficiency and speed in the process of providing financial assistance to serbia and the other western balkan countries.
in writing. the mass arrival of refugees is one of the biggest challenges facing the union since its foundation. how we deal with this crisis will determine how europe is seen in the world and how we are seen by our own citizens. our task is to find a humane and rational solution, a new balance between the requirements of international law and security needs, to provide refuge to those in need, while protecting and strengthening the fundamental values of our union. the past period has shown that narrow nationalist solutions lead nowhere. barbed wire, walls, water cannons, tear gas, rubber bullets, violence, denial of rights do not stop refugees, but only cause immeasurable suffering and deprive the displaced of any remaining human dignity. while many citizens, communities and cities in europe have shown generosity and humanity in recent times, the organised institutional response is often weak and uncertain. last week, europe's leaders made a courageous decision to put aside the resistance of nationalists playing small-time politics and move towards a stronger common european policy. but that's not enough. we need to mobilize europe's resources to help and integrate refugees, and to get these resources to where they really need to be supported, to cities and to civil society, to communities.
in writing. ‒ forced labour violates the human rights and dignity of millions of men, women, young girls and boys. the struggle against this most violent form of exploitation has been central to many of the major political and philosophical movements for emancipation. the struggle for emancipation, which aimed to free man from political and cultural domination and physical dependencies, always attacked slave labor, which prevented the exercise of other rights. yet, in the 21st century, forced labor still affects 21 million people who are victims of exploitation that generates $150 billion a year for the organizers and perpetrators of this crime. the 2014 protocol to the 1930 ilo convention on forced labour updates the convention by providing it with new instruments and binding legal force to combat forced labour. i therefore voted in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ we welcome today’s vote, with which we authorise and recommend member states to ratify the international labour organization’s (ilo) forced labour convention. this is one of the ilo’s eight fundamental conventions which are at the base of international labour standards. this particular protocol seeks to address gaps in implementation and to make progress on preventing trafficking for labour exploitation as well as protecting and compensating victims of forced labour. it is crucially important that the use of forced labour is suppressed in all its forms irrespective of the nature of the work or the sector of activity in which it may be performed. we therefore strongly support the ratification of this ilo convention by all member states, convinced that all measures must be put in place in order to eradicate a practice to which young boys and girls are often exposed and which is still present in some of our member states.
in writing. i supported the motion for a resolution because trafficking in human beings and forced labour are the most serious violations of human rights and must be combated by all means. ratification of the protocol will also help to ensure that the rights of victims of such crimes are better protected across europe. it is deeply regrettable that despite the fact that 80 years have passed since the original convention on forced labor came into force, millions of victims continue to be victimized worldwide.
in writing. ‒ the 1930 convention is one of the eight ilo founding conventions setting out basic international labour standards. the 2014 protocol contains important additions to address the shortcomings of the original convention, but it cannot be ratified by the member states as some parts of it fall within the competence of the union. the draft decision is therefore intended to authorise the member states to ratify the parts of the protocol which fall within the competence of the union. at its last plenary session, the european parliament gave its consent to a similar draft council decision authorising member states to ratify the protocol in respect of social policy aspects, and this draft would do the same in respect of aspects related to judicial cooperation in criminal matters.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the recommendation, as the convention on forced labour is one of the fundamental international labour standards and its updating is essential. the reasoning of the recommendation emphasizes that when the 1930 convention was adopted, the international labour conference called on states to eliminate and criminalize forced labour as soon as possible. yet, 80 years later, the ilo estimates that there are still at least 20.9 million victims of forced labor worldwide. this and related phenomena - such as trafficking in human beings, exploitation - must be stopped! in my opinion, one of the peculiarities of forced labour is that it is not guaranteed that there is a system of adequate remuneration and other benefits for the work. i am curious how the hungarian government explains the public service system's allegedly labour-infringing monthly salary of around 150 euros, and how the government is coordinating its policies and action plan to effectively and permanently eliminate forced labour. i should note that the coordination process also includes educating and informing people and ensuring that the scope and enforcement of legislation relevant to the prevention of forced labour extends to all workers and all sectors of the economy, protecting citizens, including migrant workers, against potentially abusive and unfair recruitment and placement practices.
in writing. ‒ in accordance with community decision-making, i voted in favour of the recommendation.
in writing. ‒ i believe it is vital that the legal framework keeps pace with the incredibly rapid pace of development of new drugs, which are being developed and brought to market by drug traffickers and criminal networks. we need to stop the proliferation of psychoactive substances, which are constantly being modified, exploiting loopholes created by the slowness of legislation. almost every day we are confronted with new and new drugs that are toxic, in many cases deadly, but often not yet illegal. i believe that we must provide the member states with the appropriate legal tools to effectively tackle the production and distribution of these new drug ingredients. at the same time, we must do everything possible to ensure that school teachers and parents are informed in time to prevent further tragedies. for these reasons, as a member of the hungarian people's party delegation, i supported the report.
in writing. ‒ as a member of the hungarian people's party delegation, i supported the report with the aim of maintaining control measures on new drug ingredients. it is vital to keep abreast of the new and new drugs that drug traffickers and criminal networks are bringing to the market. we need to stop the distribution of psychoactive ingredients that are constantly being modified to exploit legal loopholes. every day we face new and new drugs that are toxic, in many cases deadly, but many times not yet illegal. we need to provide the member states' authorities with the appropriate tools to effectively tackle these new drug components. at the same time, we must do everything possible to ensure that school teachers and parents are properly informed so that new tragedies are prevented.
in writing. ‒ as a member of the hungarian people's party delegation, i supported the report with the aim of maintaining control measures on new drug ingredients. it is vital to keep up with the new and new drugs that drug traffickers and criminal networks are bringing to the market. we need to stop the distribution of psychoactive ingredients that are constantly being modified to exploit legal loopholes. every day we face new and new drugs that are toxic, in many cases deadly, but many times not yet illegal. we need to provide the member states' authorities with the appropriate tools to effectively tackle these new drug components. at the same time, we must do everything possible to ensure that school teachers and parents are properly informed so that new tragedies are prevented.
in writing. ‒ i am in favour of all these implementing decisions in order to ensure the continuity of control measures across member states on the new substances. it is vitally important to keep up to date with the new drugs being constantly developed by drug traffickers and criminal organisations. we must stop the distribution of psychoactive substances which change constantly in order to take advantage of legislative gaps. as we witness day by day, these new drugs are not only extremely toxic and have caused large numbers of deaths, but are often not even recognised as illegal. we must enable our law enforcement authorities to counter such criminal activity, providing them with the necessary instruments to fight back the spreading of these new substances. at the same time we must make sure that schools are supported in education and prevention activities. special attention must be given also to helping the young victims and their families.
in writing. ‒ as a member of the hungarian people's party delegation, i supported the report with the aim of maintaining control measures on new drugs. it is vital to be aware of the new and new drugs that drug traffickers and criminal networks are bringing to the market. we need to stop the distribution of psychoactive ingredients, which are constantly being modified to exploit their legal loopholes. every day we are confronted with new and new substances that are toxic, in many cases deadly, but most of them are not yet illegal. we need to provide the member states' authorities with the appropriate tools to effectively tackle these new drug components. at the same time, we must do everything possible to ensure that school teachers and parents are properly informed so that new tragedies are prevented.
in writing. ‒ as a member of the hungarian people's party delegation, i supported the report with the aim of maintaining control measures on new drug ingredients. it is vital to keep up with the new and new drugs that drug traffickers and criminal networks are bringing to the market. we need to stop the spread of psychoactive ingredients that are constantly being modified, exploiting loopholes. every day we face new and new drugs that are toxic, in many cases deadly, but many times not yet illegal. we need to provide the member states' authorities with the appropriate tools to effectively tackle these new drug components. at the same time, we must do everything possible to ensure that school teachers and parents are properly informed so that new tragedies are prevented.
in writing. ‒ the council intends to take a decision on the control of eight relatively new psychoactive substances. all of them are present in the european union, they are also distributed on the internet, and some deaths have been reported. in its reports, libe, the ep's competent committee, supported the draft decisions almost unanimously. given their proven dangers, i support their control.
in writing. ‒ as a member of the hungarian people's party delegation, i supported the report with the aim of maintaining control measures on new drug ingredients. it is essential to draw attention to the new and new drugs that are being brought to the market by drug traffickers and criminal networks. we need to stop the spread of psychoactive ingredients that are constantly being modified, exploiting loopholes. every day we face new and new drugs that are toxic, in many cases deadly, but many times not yet illegal. we need to provide the member states' authorities with the appropriate tools to effectively tackle these new drug components. at the same time, we must do everything possible to ensure that school teachers and parents are properly informed so that new tragedies are prevented.
in writing. ‒ 5-[2-amino-propyl]indol and other synthetic psychoactive substances have a high degree of toxicity with adverse effects on the human body. these chemicals can cause rapid heartbeat and hyperthermia, but they can also cause pupil dilation, restlessness and tremors, and epileptic seizures, among other things. in addition, they may interact with other substances, medicines, or stimulants in the body. since the beginning of 2012, several member states have reported that these psychoactive substances have been known to cause deaths. the wider availability of these new psychoactive substances on the black market could seriously undermine the eu's fight against drug trafficking and use. on this basis, i supported the eu's imposition of control measures and criminal sanctions on these substances.
in writing. ‒ i believe it is vital that the legal framework keeps pace with the incredibly rapid pace of development of new drugs, which are being developed and brought to market by drug traffickers and criminal networks. we need to stop the distribution of psychoactive ingredients, which are constantly being modified, exploiting loopholes created by the slowness of legislation. almost every day we are confronted with new and new drugs that are toxic, in many cases deadly, but often not yet illegal. in my view, we must provide the member states with the appropriate legal tools to effectively tackle the production and distribution of these new drug ingredients. at the same time, we must do everything possible to ensure that school teachers and parents are informed in time to prevent further tragedies. for these reasons, as a member of the hungarian people's party delegation, i supported the report.
in writing. ‒ as a member of the hungarian people's party delegation, i supported the report with the aim of maintaining control measures on new drug ingredients. it is vital to keep up with the new and new drugs that drug traffickers and criminal networks are bringing to the market. we need to stop the distribution of psychoactive ingredients that are constantly being modified to exploit legal loopholes. every day we face new and new drugs that are toxic, in many cases deadly, but many times not yet illegal. we need to provide the member states' authorities with the appropriate tools to effectively tackle these new drug components. at the same time, we must do everything possible to ensure that school teachers and parents are properly informed so that new tragedies are prevented.
in writing. ‒ i am in favour of all these implementing decisions in order to ensure the continuity of control measures across member states on the new substances. it is vitally important to keep up to date with the new drugs being constantly developed by drug traffickers and criminal organisations. we must stop the distribution of psychoactive substances which change constantly in order to take advantage of legislative gaps. as we witness day by day, these new drugs are not only extremely toxic and have caused large numbers of deaths, but are often not even recognised as illegal. we must enable our law enforcement authorities to counter such criminal activity, providing them with the necessary instruments to fight back the spreading of these new substances. at the same time we must make sure that schools are supported in education and prevention activities. special attention must be given also to help the young victims and their families.
in writing. ‒ as a member of the hungarian people's party delegation, i supported the report with the aim of maintaining control measures on new drugs. it is vital to be aware of the new and new drugs that drug traffickers and criminal networks are bringing to the market. we need to stop the spread of psychoactive ingredients that are constantly being modified to exploit legal loopholes. every day we are confronted with new and new substances that are toxic, in many cases deadly, but most of them are not yet illegal. we need to provide the member states' authorities with the appropriate tools to effectively tackle these new drug components. at the same time, we must do everything possible to ensure that school teachers and parents are properly informed so that new tragedies are prevented.
in writing. ‒ as a member of the hungarian people's party delegation, i supported the report with the aim of maintaining control measures on new drug ingredients. it is vital to be aware of the new and new drugs that drug traffickers and criminal networks are bringing to the market. we need to stop the distribution of psychoactive ingredients that are constantly being modified to exploit legal loopholes. every day we face new and new drugs that are toxic, in many cases deadly, but many times not yet illegal. we need to provide the member states' authorities with the appropriate tools to effectively tackle these new drug components. at the same time, we must do everything possible to ensure that school teachers and parents are properly informed so that new tragedies are prevented.
in writing. i supported this report and other similar reports, given the importance of information exchange, risk assessment and control of new psychoactive substances. the rapid spread and widespread availability of mind-altering drugs pose tremendous risks to the health of individuals, especially young people, and to societies as a whole.
in writing. ‒ the council intends to take a decision on the control of eight relatively new psychoactive substances. all of them are present in the european union, they are also distributed on the internet, and some deaths have been reported. in its reports, libe, the ep's competent committee, supported the draft decisions almost unanimously. given their proven dangers, i support their control.
in writing. ‒ as a member of the hungarian people's party delegation, i supported the report with the aim of maintaining control measures on new drug ingredients. it is essential to draw attention to the new and new drugs that are being brought to the market by drug traffickers and criminal networks. we need to stop the spread of psychoactive ingredients that are constantly being modified, exploiting loopholes. every day we face new and new drugs that are toxic, in many cases deadly, but many times not yet illegal. we need to provide the member states' authorities with the appropriate tools to effectively tackle these new drug components. at the same time, we must do everything possible to ensure that school teachers and parents are properly informed so that new tragedies are prevented.
in writing. ‒ i believe it is vital that the legal framework keeps pace with the incredibly rapid pace at which new drugs are being developed and brought to market by drug traffickers and criminal networks. we need to stop the proliferation of psychoactive substances, which are constantly being modified, exploiting loopholes created by the slowness of legislation. almost every day we are confronted with new and new drugs that are toxic, in many cases deadly, but often not yet illegal. in my view, we must provide the member states with the appropriate legal tools to effectively tackle the production and distribution of these new drug ingredients. at the same time, we must do everything possible to ensure that school teachers and parents are informed in time to prevent further tragedies. for these reasons, as a member of the hungarian people's party delegation, i supported the report.
in writing. ‒ as a member of the hungarian people's party delegation, i supported the report with the aim of maintaining control measures on new drug ingredients. it is vital to keep up with the new and new drugs that drug traffickers and criminal networks are bringing to the market. we need to stop the spread of psychoactive ingredients that are constantly being modified, exploiting loopholes. every day we face new and new drugs that are toxic, in many cases deadly, but many times not yet illegal. we need to provide the member states' authorities with the appropriate tools to effectively tackle these new drug components. at the same time, we must do everything possible to ensure that school teachers and parents are properly informed so that new tragedies are prevented.
in writing. ‒ i am in favour of all these implementing decisions in order to ensure the continuity of control measures across member states on the new substances. it is vitally important to keep up to date with the new drugs being constantly developed by drug traffickers and criminal organisations. we must stop the distribution of psychoactive substances which change constantly in order to take advantage of legislative gaps. as we witness day by day, these new drugs are not only extremely toxic and have caused large numbers of deaths, but are often not even recognised as illegal. we must enable our law enforcement authorities to counter such criminal activity, providing them with the necessary instruments to fight back the spreading of these new substances. at the same time we must make sure that schools are supported in education and prevention activities. special attention must be given also to help the young victims and their families.
in writing. ‒ as a member of the hungarian people's party delegation, i supported the report with the aim of maintaining control measures on new drugs. it is vital to be aware of the new and new drugs that drug traffickers and criminal networks are bringing to the market. we need to stop the spread of psychoactive ingredients that are constantly being modified to exploit legal loopholes. every day we are confronted with new and new substances that are toxic, in many cases deadly, but most of them are not yet illegal. we need to provide the member states' authorities with the appropriate tools to effectively tackle these new drug components. at the same time, we must do everything possible to ensure that school teachers and parents are properly informed so that new tragedies are prevented.
in writing. ‒ as a member of the hungarian people's party delegation, i supported the report with the aim of maintaining control measures on new drug ingredients. it is vital to keep up with the new and new drugs that drug traffickers and criminal networks are bringing to the market. we need to stop the spread of psychoactive ingredients that are constantly being modified, exploiting loopholes. every day we face new and new drugs that are toxic, in many cases deadly, but many times not yet illegal. we need to provide the member states' authorities with the appropriate tools to effectively tackle these new drug components. at the same time, we must do everything possible to ensure that school teachers and parents are properly informed so that new tragedies are prevented.
in writing. ‒ the council intends to take a decision on the control of eight relatively new psychoactive substances. all of them are present in the european union, they are also distributed on the internet, and some deaths have been reported. in its reports, libe, the ep's competent committee, supported the draft decisions almost unanimously. given their proven dangers, i support their control.
in writing. ‒ as a member of the hungarian people's party delegation, i supported the report with the aim of maintaining control measures on new drug ingredients. it is essential to draw attention to the new and new drugs that are being brought to the market by drug traffickers and criminal networks. we need to stop the spread of psychoactive ingredients that are constantly being modified, exploiting loopholes. every day we face new and new drugs that are toxic, in many cases deadly, but many times not yet illegal. we need to provide the member states' authorities with the appropriate tools to effectively tackle these new drug components. at the same time, we must do everything possible to ensure that school teachers and parents are properly informed so that new tragedies are prevented.
in writing. ‒ i believe it is vital that the legal framework keeps pace with the incredibly rapid development of new and new drugs that are being developed and brought to market by drug traffickers and criminal networks. we need to stop the proliferation of psychoactive substances, which are constantly being modified, exploiting loopholes created by the slowness of legislation. almost every day we are confronted with new and new drugs that are toxic, in many cases deadly, but often not yet illegal. in my view, we must provide the member states with the appropriate legal tools to effectively tackle the production and distribution of these new drug ingredients. at the same time, we must do everything possible to ensure that school teachers and parents are informed in time to prevent further tragedies. for these reasons, as a member of the hungarian people's party delegation, i supported the report.
in writing. ‒ as a member of the hungarian people's party delegation, i supported the report with the aim of maintaining control measures on new drug ingredients. it is vital to keep up with the new and new drugs that drug traffickers and criminal networks are bringing to the market. we need to stop the spread of psychoactive ingredients that are constantly being modified, exploiting loopholes. every day we face new and new drugs that are toxic, in many cases deadly, but many times not yet illegal. we need to provide the member states' authorities with the appropriate tools to effectively tackle these new drug components. at the same time, we must do everything possible to ensure that school teachers and parents are properly informed so that new tragedies are prevented.
in writing. ‒ i am in favour of all these implementing decisions in order to ensure the continuity of control measures across member states on the new substances. it is vitally important to keep up to date with the new drugs being constantly developed by drug traffickers and criminal organisations. we must stop the distribution of psychoactive substances which change constantly in order to take advantage of legislative gaps. as we witness day by day, these new drugs are not only extremely toxic and have caused large numbers of deaths, but are often not even recognised as illegal. we must enable our law enforcement authorities to counter such criminal activity, providing them with the necessary instruments to fight back the spreading of these new substances. at the same time we must make sure that schools are supported in education and prevention activities. special attention must be given also to help the young victims and their families.
in writing. ‒ as a member of the hungarian people's party delegation, i supported the report with the aim of maintaining control measures on new drugs. it is vital to be aware of the new and new drugs that drug traffickers and criminal networks are bringing to the market. we need to stop the spread of psychoactive ingredients that are constantly being modified to exploit legal loopholes. every day we are confronted with new and new substances that are toxic, in many cases deadly, but most of them are not yet illegal. we need to provide the member states' authorities with the appropriate tools to effectively tackle these new drug components. at the same time, we must do everything possible to ensure that school teachers and parents are properly informed so that new tragedies are prevented.
in writing. ‒ as a member of the hungarian people's party delegation, i supported the report with the aim of maintaining control measures on new drug ingredients. it is vital to keep up with the new and new drugs that drug traffickers and criminal networks are bringing to the market. we need to stop the spread of psychoactive ingredients that are constantly being modified, exploiting loopholes. every day we face new and new drugs that are toxic, in many cases deadly, but many times not yet illegal. we need to provide the member states' authorities with the appropriate tools to effectively tackle these new drug components. at the same time, we must do everything possible to ensure that school teachers and parents are properly informed so that new tragedies are prevented.
in writing. ‒ the council intends to take a decision on the control of eight relatively new psychoactive substances. all of them are present in the european union, they are also distributed on the internet, and some deaths have been reported. in its reports, libe, the ep's competent committee, supported the draft decisions almost unanimously. given their proven dangers, i support their control.
in writing. ‒ as a member of the hungarian people's party delegation, i supported the report with the aim of maintaining control measures on new drug ingredients. it is essential to draw attention to the new and new drugs that are being brought to the market by drug traffickers and criminal networks. we need to stop the spread of psychoactive ingredients that are constantly being modified, exploiting loopholes. every day we face new and new drugs that are toxic, in many cases deadly, but many times not yet illegal. we need to provide the member states' authorities with the appropriate tools to effectively tackle these new drug components. at the same time, we must do everything possible to ensure that school teachers and parents are properly informed so that new tragedies are prevented.
in writing. ‒ agree with the commission's proposal to provide financial assistance from the european union solidarity fund (eusf) under point 11 of the interinstitutional agreement of 2 december 2013 for the disaster in bulgaria (classified by the eusf as a 'major natural disaster' due to exceptionally severe winter weather conditions) and for two floods in greece (classified by the eusf as a 'regional disaster' due to floods in evros, central greece) in early 2015. the commission carried out a thorough examination of all three applications in accordance with the regulation establishing the european union solidarity fund. the european union is providing a total of eur 16 274 765 to bulgaria and greece for damage mitigation. on the basis of the above, as a member of the hungarian people's party delegation, i supported the adoption of the proposal in agreement with the european people's party.
in writing. ‒ the commission proposes that, on the basis of point 11 of the interinstitutional agreement of 2 december 2013, the european union solidarity fund (eusf) provide financial assistance for the disaster in bulgaria (classified by the eusf as 'significant natural disaster' due to exceptionally severe winter weather conditions) and for two disasters in greece (classified by the eusf as 'regional disaster' due to floods in evros in central greece) in early 2015. the commission carried out a thorough examination of all three applications in accordance with council regulation (ec) no 2012/2002, as amended by regulation (eu) no 661/2014 of the european parliament and of the council of 15 may 2014 establishing the european union solidarity fund, and in particular articles 2, 3 and 4 thereof. the european union is providing a total of eur 16 274 765 to bulgaria and greece for damage mitigation. on the basis of the above, the hungarian people's party delegation supported the adoption of the proposal in agreement with the european people's party.
in writing. ‒ the commission proposes that, on the basis of point 11 of the interinstitutional agreement of 2 december 2013, the european union solidarity fund (eusf) provide financial assistance for the disaster in bulgaria (classified by the eusf as 'significant natural disaster' due to exceptionally severe winter weather conditions) and for two disasters in greece (classified by the eusf as 'regional disaster' due to floods in evros in central greece) in early 2015. the commission carried out a thorough examination of all three applications in accordance with council regulation (ec) no 2012/2002, as amended by regulation (eu) no 661/2014 of the european parliament and of the council of 15 may 2014 establishing the european union solidarity fund, and in particular articles 2, 3 and 4 thereof. the european union is providing a total of eur 16 274 765 to bulgaria and greece for damage mitigation. on the basis of the above, the hungarian people's party delegation supported the adoption of the proposal in agreement with the european people's party.
in writing. ‒ the commission proposes that, on the basis of point 11 of the interinstitutional agreement of 2 december 2013, the european union solidarity fund (eusf) provide financial assistance in response to the disasters in bulgaria (classified by the eusf as 'significant natural disaster' due to exceptionally severe winter weather conditions) and in greece, following the floods in evros in central greece (classified by the eusf as 'regional disaster') in early 2015. the commission carried out a thorough examination of all three applications in accordance with council regulation (ec) no 2012/2002, as amended by regulation (eu) no 661/2014 of the european parliament and of the council of 15 may 2014 establishing the european union solidarity fund, and in particular articles 2, 3 and 4 thereof. the european union is providing a total of eur 16 274 765 to bulgaria and greece for damage mitigation. on the basis of the above, the hungarian people's party delegation supported the adoption of the proposal in agreement with the european people's party.
in writing. ‒ the commission proposes that, on the basis of point 11 of the interinstitutional agreement of 2 december 2013, the european union solidarity fund (eusf) provide financial assistance for the disaster in bulgaria (classified by the eusf as 'significant natural disaster' due to exceptionally severe winter weather conditions) and for two disasters in greece (classified by the eusf as 'regional disaster' due to floods in evros in central greece) in early 2015. the commission carried out a thorough examination of all three applications in accordance with council regulation (ec) no 2012/2002, as amended by regulation (eu) no 661/2014 of the european parliament and of the council of 15 may 2014 establishing the european union solidarity fund, and in particular articles 2, 3 and 4 thereof. the european union is providing a total of eur 16 274 765 to bulgaria and greece for damage mitigation. on the basis of the above, the hungarian people's party delegation supported the adoption of the proposal in agreement with the european people's party.
in writing. ‒ the commission proposes that, on the basis of point 11 of the interinstitutional agreement of 2 december 2013, the european union solidarity fund (eusf) provide financial assistance for the disaster in bulgaria (classified by the eusf as 'significant natural disaster' due to exceptionally severe winter weather conditions) and for two disasters in greece (classified by the eusf as 'regional disaster' due to floods in evros in central greece) in early 2015. the commission carried out a thorough examination of all three applications in accordance with council regulation (ec) no 2012/2002, as amended by regulation (eu) no 661/2014 of the european parliament and of the council of 15 may 2014 establishing the european union solidarity fund, and in particular articles 2, 3 and 4 thereof. the european union is providing a total of eur 16 274 765 to bulgaria and greece for damage mitigation. on the basis of the above, the hungarian people's party delegation supported the adoption of the proposal in agreement with the european people's party.
in writing. natural disasters and floods have caused damage worth hundreds of millions of euros in bulgaria and greece. the report proposed to approve eur 6.4 million for bulgaria and eur 9.9 million for greece to be charged to the eu solidarity fund. these are essentially symbolic amounts, but they do help the two peripheral countries, so of course i supported their award. it is regrettable, but also sobering, that the total annual amount of the fund is only eur 500 million compared to other budget lines.
in writing. ‒ bulgaria applied for the fund because of the cold winter weather and greece applied for the fund because of the floods, for a total of eur 16 274 765. the commission has concluded that the applications fulfil the requirements for mobilisation of the fund, as laid down in regulation (ec) no 2012/2002. that's why i supported the motion.
in writing. ‒ the commission proposes that, on the basis of point 11 of the interinstitutional agreement of 2 december 2013, the european union solidarity fund (eusf) provide financial assistance for the disaster in bulgaria (classified by the eusf as 'significant natural disaster' due to exceptionally severe winter weather conditions) and for two disasters in greece (classified by the eusf as 'regional disaster' due to floods in evros in central greece) in early 2015. the commission carried out a thorough examination of all three applications in accordance with council regulation (ec) no 2012/2002, as amended by regulation (eu) no 661/2014 of the european parliament and of the council of 15 may 2014 establishing the european union solidarity fund, and in particular articles 2, 3 and 4 thereof. the european union is providing a total of eur 16 274 765 to bulgaria and greece for damage mitigation. on the basis of the above, the hungarian people's party delegation supported the adoption of the proposal in agreement with the european people's party.
in writing. ‒ use of the eu solidarity fund to repair damage caused by natural disasters in bulgaria and greece. i supported the report.
i voted in favour, and why, let me quote one of the ideas in the preamble to our national legislation on the same subject: 'to strengthen cohesion, unity and national consciousness, we must unite the values of our nation'. in a strange way, as hungary gets more and more insults, we have more and more tourists. we thank you very much for this, and we invite and expect people from europe and beyond europe to see our countless hungarian products. this is also listed in the supplementary to the legislation, such as the lake of the hebrides and traditional medicine of the hebrides, the folk art of matýó and kalocs, the life work of ferenc puszta or puskás, and now the most important is the life work of jános hunyadi, or the victory of nándor fehérvári, when hunyadi led the central european forces to protect hungary and europe from the mass invasion of foreigners. the southern bell is for her.
in writing. ‒ geographical indications are used to designate the origin of goods by indicating the country, region, county, locality, manufacturer, producer to which the goods are most closely related. at present, at european level, protection of origin is granted only to agricultural products which meet the conditions, are produced by a traditional process and are of high quality. at present, the protection of these products varies from one member state to another, with some member states not granting protection to products from other member states. following the research carried out on the subject and the consultation of the parties concerned, this own-initiative report calls on the commission to submit a legislative proposal also for products which are not agricultural products and which, due to their traditional production, form part of the european cultural heritage. i voted in favour of the report because such a regulation would significantly improve not only the international competitiveness of the member states but also that of europe.
in writing. ‒ geographical indications are used to designate the origin of goods by indicating the country, region, county, locality, manufacturer, producer to which the goods are most closely related. at present, at european level, protection of origin is granted only to agricultural products which meet the conditions, are produced by a traditional process and are of high quality. at present, the protection of these products varies from one member state to another, with some member states not granting protection to products from other member states. following the research carried out on the subject and the consultation of the parties concerned, this own-initiative report calls on the commission to submit a legislative proposal also for products which are not agricultural products and which, due to their traditional production, form part of the european cultural heritage. such a system would significantly improve not only the international competitiveness of the member states but also that of europe.
in writing. ‒ agriculture and the food industry are of particular importance in the hungarian economy. the same is true of wine production, which is closely linked to these industries, but the country has a number of other products of traditionally high quality outside the agricultural area. internationally recognised designations such as the segepe pepper, the gyula sausage, the mako onion, the tokaji wine or the wild bull's blood not only contribute to the image of the country of origin, but also maintain the quality requirements of the products and provide significant added market value through protection in the form of collective rights. the concept of geographical indications is applied in general to all the indications used in the market to identify the geographical origin of products. at present, at european level, the protection of origin granted by geographical indications applies only to agricultural products which fulfil the conditions. this own-initiative report calls on the european commission to come forward with a legislative proposal covering products which are not agricultural products but which, due to their traditional production, form part of europe's cultural heritage. such a system would significantly improve not only the international competitiveness of the member states but also that of europe. that's why i voted for the motion.
in writing. ‒ geographical indications are used to designate the origin of goods by indicating the country, region, county, locality, manufacturer, producer to which the goods are most closely related. at present, at european level, protection of origin is granted only to qualified agricultural products produced by a traditional process and of high quality. at present, the protection of these products varies from one member state to another, with some member states not granting protection to products from other member states. following the research carried out on the subject and the consultation of the parties concerned, this own-initiative report calls on the commission to submit a legislative proposal also for products which are not agricultural products and which, due to their traditional production, form part of the european cultural heritage. such a system would significantly improve not only the international competitiveness of the member states but also that of europe.
in writing. ‒ geographical indications are used to designate the origin of goods by indicating the country, region, county, locality, manufacturer, producer to which the goods are most closely related. at present, at european level, protection of origin is granted only to qualified agricultural products produced by a traditional process and of high quality. following the research carried out on the subject and the consultation of the parties concerned, this own-initiative report calls on the commission to submit a legislative proposal also for products which are not agricultural products and which, due to their traditional production, form part of the european cultural heritage. such a system would significantly improve not only the international competitiveness of the member states but also that of europe.
in writing. ‒ geographical indications are used to designate the origin of goods by indicating the country, region, county, locality, manufacturer, producer to which the goods are most closely related. at european level, protection of origin is currently limited to agricultural products produced by a traditional process and of high quality. the protection of these products varies from one member state to another under the rules in force. in some countries of the union, products from other member states are not protected. this report is the result of research and consultation with stakeholders. the document calls on the commission to take the initiative to protect products which are not agricultural products but which, due to their traditional production, form part of europe's cultural heritage. such a system would significantly improve not only the international competitiveness of the member states but also that of europe.
in writing. ‒ geographical indications are used to designate the origin of goods by indicating the country, region, county, locality, manufacturer, producer to which the goods are most closely related. at present, at european level, protection of origin is granted only to qualified agricultural products produced by a traditional process and of high quality. at present, the protection of these products varies from one member state to another, with some member states not granting protection to products from other member states. following the research carried out on the subject and the consultation of the parties concerned, this own-initiative report calls on the commission to submit a legislative proposal also for products which are not agricultural products and which, due to their traditional production, form part of the european cultural heritage. such a system would significantly improve not only the international competitiveness of the member states but also that of europe.
in writing. the resolution in question helps to preserve the european union's enduring values and valuable expertise, which is a significant part of europe's historical, cultural, economic and social heritage, and i was happy to vote in favour of it. the extension of the protection of geographical indications in the european union to non-agricultural products would support and facilitate the protection of european handicrafts resulting from traditional knowledge and skills. through designation of origin, it would facilitate better access to the eu common market and to markets outside the union, contributing to the development of social and territorial communities and rural areas.
in writing. ‒ there has long been a uniform eu-wide protection for agricultural products originating in a specific geographical area, which have certain characteristics or are produced by traditional processes. in its green paper 'taking advantage of europe's traditional expertise: a possible extension of the protection of geographical indications to non-agricultural products in the european union', the commission examined the extension of such protection to non-agricultural products. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' to cover the whole of the eu. i supported the motion.
in writing. ‒ geographical indications are used to designate the origin of goods by indicating the country, region, county, locality, manufacturer, producer to which the goods are most closely related. at present, at european level, protection of origin is granted only to agricultural products which meet the conditions, are produced by a traditional process and are of high quality. at present, the protection of these products varies from one member state to another, with some member states not granting protection to products from other member states. following the research carried out on the subject and the consultation of the parties concerned, this own-initiative report calls on the commission to submit a legislative proposal also for products which are not agricultural products and which, due to their traditional production, form part of the european cultural heritage. such a system would significantly improve not only the international competitiveness of the member states but also that of europe. that's why i voted for the motion.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the proposal to add a geographical indication to the list of products which have been protected at eu level since 1992, in addition to foodstuffs. this will provide consumers with the right information, but it will also help to protect cultural heritage, boost local businesses and promote local products. a geographical indication is therefore a name or sign indicating the origin of a product. the sign usually also symbolises the traditional process, special knowledge or local culture required to produce the product, which is why it cannot be used by other businesses without authorisation. the european commission has identified more than 800 products that would be affected by such a new regulation, including antwerp diamonds and murano glass, as well as fish fingers, herring and porcelain. the proposal is in fact a strong signal to the european commission to take the initiative to propose a uniform system of geographical indications as soon as possible and to take account of existing systems.
of course, i voted for greece in a difficult situation to get more eu money, so to speak, to help. however, as i said in my speech on the subject, i would urge the greek citizens to closely monitor and control how this money is spent, and if they become aware that these funds are being distributed in opaque, corrupt tenders, to immediately rebel or report it to the european union. as i did with the manipulation of hungarian land, when i noticed, based on several reports, that the eu's land grants were manipulated in such a way that they were given land leases to those who were not entitled to them, who then put the money in their own pockets. i have reported the problem to the european commission, who have turned to olaf, and i encourage my own countrymen to ... (the president interrupted)
in writing. ‒ following the conclusions of the european summit of 12 july 2015, the european commission presented on 17 july 2015 its proposal to amend the common provisions for the 2014-2020 programming period in order to provide the liquidity needed to implement the greek cohesion programmes. the proposal envisages an increase in the advance payment, a 95% co-financing ceiling and the abolition of national co-financing for greece. the commission considers these measures necessary because the crisis in greece has led to continuous negative growth rates, liquidity problems and a lack of public resources to create jobs. i voted in favour of the commission's proposal, but i think it is important to emphasise a few points. in particular, i consider it essential that the proper use of the surcharges be closely monitored. i would also like to point out that these measures violate several fundamental principles (e.g. co-financing, subsidiarity, additionality, equal treatment), and it is therefore important to emphasise that this is a specific, one-off step which in no way can create a precedent or affect the future nature of cohesion policy. given that the commission proposal raises not only legal and policy concerns but also budgetary concerns, i therefore consider it necessary to clarify the actual budgetary implications as soon as possible. it is important that the proposals contained in the commission's draft do not involve any modification of the multiannual financial framework and do not affect the cohesion envelope of greece or the other member states.
in writing. ‒ following the conclusions of the european summit of 12 july 2015, the european commission presented on 17 july 2015 its proposal to amend the common provisions for the 2014-2020 programming period in order to provide the liquidity needed to implement the greek cohesion programmes. the proposal envisages an increase in the advance payment, a 95% co-financing ceiling and the abolition of national co-financing for greece. the commission considers these measures necessary because the crisis in greece has led to continuous negative growth rates, liquidity problems, lack of public resources to restart growth and create jobs. i voted in favour of the commission's proposal, but i think it is important to emphasise a few points. in particular, i consider it essential that the proper use of the surcharges be closely monitored. i would also like to point out that these measures violate several fundamental principles (e.g. co-financing, subsidiarity, additionality, equal treatment), and it is therefore important to emphasise that this is a specific, one-off step which in no way can create a precedent or affect the future nature of cohesion policy. given that the commission proposal raises not only legal and policy concerns but also budgetary concerns, i therefore consider it necessary to clarify the actual budgetary implications as soon as possible. it is important that the proposals contained in the commission's draft do not involve any modification of the multiannual financial framework and do not affect the cohesion envelope of greece or the other member states.
in writing. ‒ following the conclusions of the european summit of 12 july 2015, the european commission presented on 17 july 2015 its proposal to amend the common provisions for the 2014-2020 programming period in order to provide the liquidity needed to implement the greek cohesion programmes. the proposal envisages an increase in the advance payment, a 95% co-financing ceiling and the abolition of national co-financing for greece. the commission considers these measures necessary because the crisis in greece has led to continuous negative growth rates, liquidity problems, lack of public resources to restart growth and create jobs. i voted in favour of the commission's proposal, but i think it is important to emphasise a few points. in particular, i consider it essential that the proper use of the surcharges be closely monitored. i would also like to point out that these measures violate several fundamental principles (e.g. co-financing, subsidiarity, additionality, equal treatment), and it is therefore important to emphasise that this is a specific, one-off step which in no way can create a precedent or affect the future nature of cohesion policy. given that the commission proposal raises not only legal and policy concerns but also budgetary concerns, i therefore consider it necessary to clarify the actual budgetary implications as soon as possible. it is important that the proposals contained in the commission's draft do not involve any modification of the multiannual financial framework and do not affect the cohesion envelope of greece or the other member states.
in writing. ‒ the proposal envisages an increased advance payment, a 95% co-financing ceiling, and the abolition of national co-financing for greece. the commission considers these measures necessary because the crisis in greece has led to continuous negative growth rates, liquidity problems, lack of public resources to restart growth and create jobs. i voted in favour of the commission's proposal, but i think it is important to emphasise a few points. in particular, i consider it essential that the proper use of the surcharges be closely monitored. i would also like to point out that these measures violate several fundamental principles (e.g. co-financing, subsidiarity, additionality, equal treatment), and it is therefore important to emphasise that this is a specific, one-off step which in no way can create a precedent or affect the future nature of cohesion policy. given that the commission proposal raises not only legal and policy concerns but also budgetary concerns, i therefore consider it necessary to clarify the actual budgetary implications as soon as possible. it is important that the proposals contained in the commission's draft do not involve any modification of the multiannual financial framework and do not affect the cohesion envelope of greece or the other member states.
in writing. ‒ following the conclusions of the european summit of 12 july 2015, the european commission presented on 17 july 2015 its proposal to amend the common provisions for the 2014-2020 programming period in order to provide the liquidity needed to implement the greek cohesion programmes. the proposal envisages an increased advance payment, a 95% co-financing ceiling and the abolition of national co-financing for greece. the commission considers these measures necessary because the crisis in greece has led to continuous negative growth rates, liquidity problems, lack of public resources to restart growth and create jobs. as a member of the hungarian people's party delegation, i voted in favour of the commission's proposal, but i think it is important to emphasise a few aspects. in particular, i consider it essential that the proper use of the surcharges be closely monitored. i would also like to point out that these measures violate several fundamental principles (e.g. co-financing, subsidiarity, additionality, equal treatment), and it is therefore important to emphasise that this is a specific, one-off step which in no way can create a precedent or affect the future nature of cohesion policy. given that the commission proposal raises not only legal and policy concerns but also budgetary concerns, i therefore consider it necessary to clarify the actual budgetary implications as soon as possible. it is important that the proposals contained in the commission's draft do not involve any modification of the multiannual financial framework and do not affect the cohesion envelope of greece or the other member states.
in writing. ‒ following the conclusions of the european summit of 12 july 2015, the european commission presented on 17 july 2015 its proposal to amend the common provisions for the 2014-2020 programming period in order to provide the liquidity needed to implement the greek cohesion programmes. the proposal envisages an increased advance payment, a 95% co-financing ceiling and the abolition of national co-financing for greece. the commission considers these measures necessary because the crisis in greece has led to continuous negative growth rates, liquidity problems, lack of public resources to restart growth and create jobs. i voted in favour of the commission's proposal, but i think it is important to emphasise a few points. in particular, i consider it essential that the proper use of the surcharges be closely monitored. i would also like to point out that these measures violate several principles (e.g. co-financing, subsidiarity, additionality, equal treatment). it is therefore important to emphasise that this is a specific, one-off step which in no way can create a precedent or influence the future nature of cohesion policy. given that the commission proposal raises not only legal and policy concerns but also budgetary concerns, i therefore consider it necessary to clarify the actual budgetary implications as soon as possible. it is important that the proposals contained in the commission's draft do not involve any modification of the multiannual financial framework and do not affect the cohesion envelope of greece or the other member states.
in writing. ‒ following the conclusions of the european summit of 12 july 2015, the european commission presented on 17 july 2015 its proposal for amendments to the common provisions for the 2014-2020 programming period in order to provide the liquidity needed to implement the greek cohesion programmes. the proposal envisages an increased advance payment, a 95% co-financing ceiling and the abolition of national co-financing for greece. the commission considers these measures necessary because the crisis in greece has led to continuous negative growth rates, liquidity problems, lack of public resources to restart growth and create jobs. i voted in favour of the commission's proposal, but i think it is important to emphasise a few points. in particular, i consider it essential that the proper use of the surcharges be closely monitored. i would also like to point out that these measures violate several fundamental principles (e.g. co-financing, subsidiarity, additionality, equal treatment), and it is therefore important to emphasise that this is a specific, one-off step which in no way can create a precedent or affect the future nature of cohesion policy. given that the commission proposal raises not only legal and policy concerns but also budgetary concerns, i therefore consider it necessary to clarify the actual budgetary implications as soon as possible. it is important that the proposals contained in the commission's draft do not involve any modification of the multiannual financial framework and do not affect the cohesion envelope of greece or the other member states.
in writing. the proposal is to make the aid to greece from the various european financial funds available to the country before the end of 2015, which i consider to be correct and therefore i voted in favour. the amendment concerns speed and to some extent facilitates co-financing, since greece would receive these funds from the european regional development fund, the european social fund and the cohesion fund anyway.
in writing. ‒ in greece, the financial crisis has led to a risk of liquidity shortages and a lack of public funds for public investments essential to a sustainable recovery. in order not to impede the implementation of programmes supported by the european regional development fund, the european social fund (esf), the cohesion fund and the european maritime and fisheries fund (emff), the commission proposes that the ep and the council amend regulation (eu) no 1303/2013 of the european parliament and of the council laying down general provisions on the above-mentioned funds as regards specific measures for greece. the proposed amendment is an exceptional measure to provide immediate support to greece to access and use the remaining union funds from the 2007-2013 cohesion policy programming period before the end of 2015. i supported the motion.
in writing. ‒ following the conclusions of the european summit of 12 july 2015, the european commission presented on 17 july 2015 its proposal to amend the common provisions for the 2014-2020 programming period in order to provide the liquidity needed to implement the greek cohesion programmes. the proposal envisages an increased advance payment, a 95% co-financing ceiling, and the abolition of national co-financing for greece. the commission considers these measures necessary because the crisis in greece has led to continuous negative growth rates, liquidity problems, lack of public resources to restart growth and create jobs. i voted in favour of the commission's proposal, but i think it is important to emphasise a few points. in particular, i consider it essential that the proper use of the surcharges be closely monitored. i would also like to point out that these measures violate several fundamental principles (e.g. co-financing, subsidiarity, additionality, equal treatment), and it is therefore important to emphasise that this is a specific, one-off step which in no way can create a precedent or affect the future nature of cohesion policy. given that the commission proposal raises not only legal and policy concerns but also budgetary concerns, i therefore consider it necessary to clarify the actual budgetary implications as soon as possible. it is important that the proposals contained in the commission's draft do not involve any modification of the multiannual financial framework and do not affect the cohesion envelope of greece or the other member states.
in writing. ‒ germany has submitted an application for a financial contribution from the egf in respect of the redundancies of 2881 employees at adam opel ag and a supplier. the application complies with the eligibility criteria set out in the egf regulation. i agree with the commission that the conditions laid down in the egf regulation are met and that germany is therefore entitled to a financial contribution. germany has planned the following measures for the redundant workers covered by this request: training measures, career counselling, groups/workshops of persons in a similar situation, business start-up advice service, job search/job fair, follow-up mentoring and counselling services and training grants. on the basis of the above, as a member of the hungarian people's party delegation, i supported the adoption of the proposal in agreement with the european people's party.
in writing. ‒ germany has submitted an application for a financial contribution from the egf in respect of the redundancies of 2881 employees at adam opel ag and a supplier. the application complies with the eligibility criteria set out in the egf regulation. the european parliament agrees with the commission that the conditions laid down in the egf regulation are met and that germany is therefore entitled to a financial contribution of eur 6 958 623 to be granted under that regulation. germany has planned the following measures for the redundant workers covered by this request: training measures, career counselling, groups/workshops of persons in a similar situation, business start-up advice service, job search/job fair, follow-up mentoring and counselling services and training grants. on the basis of the above, in view of the interinstitutional agreement of 2 december 2015, the hungarian people's party delegation supported the adoption of the proposal in agreement with the european people's party.
in writing. ‒ germany has submitted an application for a financial contribution from the egf in respect of the redundancies of 2881 employees at adam opel ag and a supplier. the application complies with the eligibility criteria set out in the egf regulation; the european parliament agrees with the commission that the conditions laid down in the egf regulation are met and that germany is therefore entitled to a financial contribution of eur 6 958 623 to be granted under that regulation. germany has planned the following measures for the redundant workers covered by this request: training measures, career counselling, groups/workshops of persons in a similar situation, business start-up advice service, job search/job fair, follow-up mentoring and counselling services and training grants. on the basis of the above, in view of the interinstitutional agreement of 2 december 2015, the hungarian people's party delegation supported the adoption of the proposal in agreement with the european people's party.
in writing. ‒ germany has submitted an application for a financial contribution from the egf in respect of the redundancies of 2881 employees at adam opel ag and a supplier. the application complies with the eligibility criteria set out in the egf regulation. the european parliament agrees with the commission that the conditions laid down in the egf regulation are met and that germany is therefore entitled to a financial contribution of eur 6 958 623 to be granted under that regulation. germany has planned the following measures for the redundant workers covered by this request: training measures, career counselling, business start-up advice, job search, job fair, follow-up mentoring and counselling services and training grants. on the basis of the above, in view of the interinstitutional agreement of 2 december 2015, the hungarian people's party delegation supported the adoption of the proposal in agreement with the european people's party.
in writing. ‒ germany has submitted an application for a financial contribution from the egf in respect of the redundancies of 2881 employees at adam opel ag and a supplier. the application complies with the eligibility criteria set out in the egf regulation. the european parliament agrees with the commission that the conditions laid down in the egf regulation are met and that germany is therefore entitled to a financial contribution of eur 6 958 623 to be granted under that regulation. germany has planned the following measures for the redundant workers covered by this request: training measures, career counselling, groups/workshops of persons in a similar situation, business start-up advice service, job search/job fair, follow-up mentoring and counselling services and training grants. on the basis of the above, in view of the interinstitutional agreement of 2 december 2015, the hungarian people's party delegation supported the adoption of the proposal in agreement with the european people's party.
in writing. ‒ germany has submitted an application for a financial contribution from the egf in respect of the redundancies of 2881 employees at adam opel ag and a supplier. the application complies with the eligibility criteria set out in the egf regulation. the european parliament agrees with the commission that the conditions laid down in the egf regulation are met and that germany is therefore entitled to a financial contribution of eur 6 958 623 to be granted under that regulation. germany has planned the following measures for the redundant workers covered by this request: training measures, career counselling, groups/workshops of persons in a similar situation, business start-up advice service, job search/job fair, follow-up mentoring and counselling services and training grants. on the basis of the above, in view of the interinstitutional agreement of 2 december 2015, the hungarian people's party delegation supported the adoption of the proposal in agreement with the european people's party.
in writing. ‒ the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) is an important institution of solidarity within the union: it helps workers whose jobs have been lost as a result of globalisation to find a job as soon as possible and to find a permanent job in a competitive sector. an active employment policy instrument that shares the burden of returning to the labour market between the worker, the member state concerned and the union, and the resulting benefits for the worker who is able to return to work, for the member state that is forced to deal with unemployment and for the union that aims to increase employment. germany applied for a financial contribution from the egf in respect of 2881 redundancies at adam opel ag and one supplier, belgium in respect of 5111 redundancies at ford genk and 11 suppliers and downstream processors, and italy in respect of 1249 redundancies at the alitalia group. all three applications fulfil the eligibility criteria set out in the egf regulation, with germany being eligible for a total of eur 6 958 623, belgium for eur 6 268 564 and italy for eur 1 414 848. i voted in favour of the motions accordingly.
in writing. ‒ germany has submitted an application for a financial contribution from the egf in respect of the redundancies of 2881 employees at adam opel ag and a supplier. the application complies with the eligibility criteria set out in the egf regulation. the european parliament agrees with the commission that the conditions laid down in the egf regulation are met and that germany is therefore entitled to a financial contribution of eur 6 958 623 to be granted under that regulation. germany has planned the following measures for the redundant workers covered by this request: training measures, career counselling, groups/workshops of persons in a similar situation, business start-up advice service, job search/job fair, follow-up mentoring and counselling services and training grants. on the basis of the above, in view of the interinstitutional agreement of 2 december 2015, the hungarian people's party delegation supported the adoption of the proposal in agreement with the european people's party.
in writing. ‒ the use of funds should be transparent and efficient. i voted in favour of the report on the use of the funds.
in writing. ‒ belgium has submitted an application for a financial contribution from the egf in respect of the 5111 redundancies at ford genk, of which 3701 were caused by ford genk and 1180 by 11 suppliers or processors. the application complies with the eligibility criteria set out in the egf regulation. i agree with the commission that the conditions laid down in the egf regulation are met and that belgium is therefore entitled to a financial contribution under that regulation. in the province of limburg, ford genk was the largest employer. the redundancies cause significant damage to the economy of limburg, as they result in the loss of more than 8000 jobs in total, the majority of the redundancies affecting eu citizens aged between 30 and 54. on the basis of the above, and in view of the interinstitutional agreement of 2 december 2015, i supported the adoption of the proposal as a member of the hungarian people's party delegation in agreement with the european people's party.
in writing. ‒ belgium has submitted an application for a financial contribution from the egf in respect of the 5111 redundancies at ford genk, of which 3701 were caused by ford genk and 1180 by 11 suppliers or processors. the application complies with the eligibility criteria set out in the egf regulation. the european parliament agrees with the commission that the conditions laid down in the egf regulation are met and that belgium is therefore entitled to a financial contribution of eur 6 268 564 from the total cost of eur 10 447 607 to be granted under that regulation. in the province of limburg, ford genk was the largest employer. the redundancies are causing significant damage to the limburg economy, with a total loss of more than 8000 jobs, the redundancies affecting mainly eu citizens aged between 30 and 54 years, an increase in the unemployment rate of between 1,8 and 2 percentage points (the region's unemployment rate rises from 6,8% to 8,8%), a decline in gdp of between 2,6% and 2,9% and a potential decrease in labour productivity of 10,9% due to the very important role played by the automotive industry in the region in terms of labour productivity. on the basis of the above, in view of the interinstitutional agreement of 2 december 2015, the hungarian people's party delegation supported the adoption of the proposal in agreement with the european people's party.
in writing. ‒ belgium has submitted an application for a financial contribution from the egf in respect of the 5111 redundancies at ford genk, of which 3701 were caused by ford genk and 1180 by 11 suppliers or processors. the application complies with the eligibility criteria set out in the egf regulation. the european parliament agrees with the commission that the conditions laid down in the egf regulation are met and that belgium is therefore entitled to a financial contribution of eur 6 268 564 from the total cost of eur 10 447 607 to be granted under that regulation. in the province of limburg, ford genk was the largest employer. the redundancies are causing significant damage to the limburg economy, with a total loss of more than 8000 jobs, the redundancies affecting mainly eu citizens aged between 30 and 54 years, an increase in the unemployment rate of between 1,8 and 2 percentage points (the region's unemployment rate rises from 6,8% to 8,8%), a decline in gdp of between 2,6% and 2,9% and a potential decrease in labour productivity of 10,9% due to the very important role played by the automotive industry in the region in terms of labour productivity. on the basis of the above, in view of the interinstitutional agreement of 2 december 2015, the hungarian people's party delegation supported the adoption of the proposal in agreement with the european people's party.
in writing. ‒ belgium has submitted an application for a financial contribution from the egf in respect of the 5111 redundancies at ford genk, of which 3701 were caused by ford genk and 1180 by 11 suppliers or processors. the application complies with the eligibility criteria set out in the egf regulation. the european parliament agrees with the commission that the conditions laid down in the egf regulation are met and that belgium is therefore entitled to a financial contribution of eur 6 268 564 from the total cost of eur 10 447 607 to be granted under that regulation. in the province of limburg, ford genk was the largest employer. the redundancies are causing significant damage to the limburg economy, with a total loss of more than 8000 jobs, the redundancies affecting mainly eu citizens aged between 30 and 54 years, an increase in the unemployment rate of between 1,8 and 2 percentage points (the region's unemployment rate rises from 6,8% to 8,8%), a decline in gdp of between 2,6% and 2,9% and a potential decrease in labour productivity of 10,9% due to the very important role played by the automotive industry in the region in terms of labour productivity. on the basis of the above, in view of the interinstitutional agreement of 2 december 2015, the hungarian people's party delegation supported the adoption of the proposal in agreement with the european people's party.
in writing. ‒ belgium has submitted an application for a financial contribution from the egf in respect of the 5111 redundancies at ford genk, of which 3701 were caused by ford genk and 1180 by 11 suppliers or processors. the application complies with the eligibility criteria set out in the egf regulation. the european parliament agrees with the commission that the conditions laid down in the egf regulation are met and that belgium is therefore entitled to a financial contribution of eur 6 268 564 from the total cost of eur 10 447 607 to be granted under that regulation. in the province of limburg, ford genk was the largest employer. the redundancies are causing significant damage to the limburg economy, with a total loss of more than 8000 jobs, the redundancies affecting mainly eu citizens aged between 30 and 54 years, an increase in the unemployment rate of between 1,8 and 2 percentage points (the region's unemployment rate rises from 6,8% to 8,8%), a decline in gdp of between 2,6% and 2,9% and a potential decrease in labour productivity of 10,9% due to the very important role played by the automotive industry in the region in terms of labour productivity. on the basis of the above, in view of the interinstitutional agreement of 2 december 2015, the hungarian people's party delegation supported the adoption of the proposal in agreement with the european people's party.
in writing. ‒ belgium has submitted an application for a financial contribution from the egf in respect of the 5111 redundancies at ford genk, of which 3701 were caused by ford genk and 1180 by 11 suppliers or processors. the application complies with the eligibility criteria set out in the egf regulation. the european parliament agrees with the commission that the conditions laid down in the egf regulation are met and that belgium is therefore entitled to a financial contribution of eur 6 268 564 from the total cost of eur 10 447 607 to be granted under that regulation. in the province of limburg, ford genk was the largest employer. the redundancies are causing significant damage to the limburg economy, with a total loss of more than 8000 jobs, the redundancies affecting mainly eu citizens aged between 30 and 54 years, an increase in the unemployment rate of between 1,8 and 2 percentage points (the region's unemployment rate rises from 6,8% to 8,8%), a decline in gdp of between 2,6% and 2,9% and a potential decrease in labour productivity of 10,9% due to the very important role played by the automotive industry in the region in terms of labour productivity. on the basis of the above, in view of the interinstitutional agreement of 2 december 2015, the hungarian people's party delegation supported the adoption of the proposal in agreement with the european people's party.
in writing. i am sorry that belgian workers have been put in such a difficult situation. at the same time, i am confident that belgium, as one of the richest eu member states, will be able to compensate workers for any losses without any difficulty. in my view, the fund should only provide aid to peripheral countries and newly acceded member states. it may be worth comparing the funds requested with the aid offered to entire countries in the event of natural disasters.
in writing. ‒ belgium has submitted an application for a financial contribution from the egf in respect of the 5111 redundancies at ford genk, of which 3701 were caused by ford genk and 1180 by 11 suppliers or processors. the application complies with the eligibility criteria set out in the egf regulation. the european parliament agrees with the commission that the conditions laid down in the egf regulation are met and that belgium is therefore entitled to a financial contribution of eur 6 268 564 from the total cost of eur 10 447 607 to be granted under that regulation. in the province of limburg, ford genk was the largest employer. the redundancies are causing significant damage to the limburg economy, with a total loss of more than 8000 jobs, the redundancies affecting mainly eu citizens aged between 30 and 54 years, an increase in the unemployment rate of between 1,8 and 2 percentage points (the region's unemployment rate rises from 6,8% to 8,8%), a decline in gdp of between 2,6% and 2,9% and a potential decrease in labour productivity of 10,9% due to the very important role played by the automotive industry in the region in terms of labour productivity. on the basis of the above, in view of the interinstitutional agreement of 2 december 2015, the hungarian people's party delegation supported the adoption of the proposal in agreement with the european people's party.
in writing. ‒ the use of funds should be transparent and efficient. i voted in favour of the report on the use of the funds.
in writing. ‒ italy has submitted its application for a financial contribution from the egf following the dismissal of 1249 workers from the alitalia group, 184 of whom are expected to benefit from the measures. the application complies with the eligibility criteria set out in the egf regulation. i agree with the commission that the conditions set out in article 4 (1) (a) of the egf regulation are fulfilled and that italy is therefore entitled to a financial contribution. italy plans five types of measures for the benefit of the workers made redundant by the aid: (i) recruitment and skills assessment, (ii) active job search assistance, (iii) vocational training, (iv) reimbursement of mobility costs and (v) employment allowance for those over 50 years of age. on the basis of the above, as a member of the hungarian people's party delegation, i supported the adoption of the proposal in agreement with the european people's party.
in writing. ‒ italy has submitted its application for a financial contribution from the egf following the dismissal of 1249 workers from the alitalia group, 184 of whom are expected to benefit from the measures. the application complies with the eligibility criteria set out in the egf regulation. the european parliament agrees with the commission that the conditions laid down in article 4 (1) (a) of the egf regulation are met and that italy is therefore entitled to a financial contribution of eur 1 414 848 under that regulation. italy plans five types of measures for the benefit of the workers made redundant by the aid: (i) recruitment and skills assessment, (ii) active job search assistance, (iii) vocational training, (iv) reimbursement of mobility costs and (v) employment allowance for those over 50 years of age. on the basis of the above, in view of the interinstitutional agreement of 2 december 2015, the hungarian people's party delegation supported the adoption of the proposal in agreement with the european people's party.
in writing. ‒ italy has submitted its application for a financial contribution from the egf following the dismissal of 1249 workers from the alitalia group, 184 of whom are expected to benefit from the measures. the application complies with the eligibility criteria set out in the egf regulation. the european parliament agrees with the commission that the conditions laid down in article 4 (1) (a) of the egf regulation are met and that italy is therefore entitled to a financial contribution of eur 1 414 848 under that regulation. italy plans five types of measures for the benefit of the workers made redundant by the aid: (i) recruitment and skills assessment, (ii) active job search assistance, (iii) vocational training, (iv) reimbursement of mobility costs and (v) employment allowance for those over 50 years of age. on the basis of the above, in view of the interinstitutional agreement of 2 december 2015, the hungarian people's party delegation supported the adoption of the proposal in agreement with the european people's party.
in writing. ‒ italy has submitted its application for a financial contribution from the egf following the dismissal of 1249 workers from the alitalia group, 184 of whom are expected to benefit from the measures. the application complies with the eligibility criteria set out in the egf regulation. the european parliament agrees with the commission that the conditions laid down in article 4 (1) (a) of the egf regulation are met and that italy is therefore entitled to a financial contribution of eur 1 414 848 under that regulation. italy plans five types of measures for the benefit of the workers made redundant by the aid: (i) recruitment and skills assessment, (ii) active job search assistance, (iii) vocational training, (iv) reimbursement of mobility costs and (v) employment allowance for those over 50 years of age. on the basis of the above, in view of the interinstitutional agreement of 2 december 2015, the hungarian people's party delegation supported the adoption of the proposal in agreement with the european people's party.
in writing. ‒ italy has submitted its application for a financial contribution from the egf following the dismissal of 1249 workers from the alitalia group, 184 of whom are expected to benefit from the measures. the application complies with the eligibility criteria set out in the egf regulation. the european parliament agrees with the commission that the conditions laid down in article 4 (1) (a) of the egf regulation are met and that italy is therefore entitled to a financial contribution of eur 1 414 848 under that regulation. italy plans five types of measures for the benefit of the workers made redundant by the aid: (i) recruitment and skills assessment, (ii) active job search assistance, (iii) vocational training, (iv) reimbursement of mobility costs and (v) employment allowance for those over 50 years of age. on the basis of the above, in view of the interinstitutional agreement of 2 december 2015, the hungarian people's party delegation supported the adoption of the proposal in agreement with the european people's party.
in writing. ‒ italy has submitted its application for a financial contribution from the egf following the dismissal of 1249 workers from the alitalia group, 184 of whom are expected to benefit from the measures. the application complies with the eligibility criteria set out in the egf regulation. the european parliament agrees with the commission that the conditions laid down in article 4 (1) (a) of the egf regulation are met and that italy is therefore entitled to a financial contribution of eur 1 414 848 under that regulation. italy plans five types of measures for the benefit of the workers made redundant by the aid: (i) recruitment and skills assessment, (ii) active job search assistance, (iii) vocational training, (iv) reimbursement of mobility costs and (v) employment allowance for those over 50 years of age. on the basis of the above, in view of the interinstitutional agreement of 2 december 2015, the hungarian people's party delegation supported the adoption of the proposal in agreement with the european people's party.
in writing. ‒ italy has submitted its application for a financial contribution from the egf following the dismissal of 1249 workers from the alitalia group, 184 of whom are expected to benefit from the measures. the application complies with the eligibility criteria set out in the egf regulation. the european parliament agrees with the commission that the conditions laid down in article 4 (1) (a) of the egf regulation are met and that italy is therefore entitled to a financial contribution of eur 1 414 848 under that regulation. italy plans five types of measures for the benefit of the workers made redundant by the aid: (i) recruitment and skills assessment, (ii) active job search assistance, (iii) vocational training, (iv) reimbursement of mobility costs and (v) employment allowance for those over 50 years of age. on the basis of the above, in view of the interinstitutional agreement of 2 december 2015, the hungarian people's party delegation supported the adoption of the proposal in agreement with the european people's party.
in writing. ‒ the use of funds should be transparent and efficient. i voted in favour of the report on the use of the funds.
i voted in favour of the amendment on the previous subject, namely that public money in the european union should not be squandered, or shared among friends and colleagues. and i would like to return to where i said earlier that this is happening for example with the hungarian hectare-based or area-based land subsidies. i was pleased to hear that and i would encourage all those who receive eu money of any kind, whether it be local communities in africa or hungarians, to take their evidence to the authorities. in our case, you will now appear on this recording to olaf with the case number and the address under which the case number of the land manipulation case in hungary is running, and report your evidence here.
in writing. ‒ the report emphasises the importance of the role of local authorities in international development. as these institutions play an important role in the lives of citizens, their opinion-forming, mobilizing role can make a major contribution to change in addressing challenges such as social exclusion, migration, food security, public security, law enforcement or environmental challenges. achieving good governance at local level is therefore an important condition for achieving sustainable development overall. i agree with the above objectives and, therefore, following the line of the people's party, i voted in favour of the adoption of the report.
in writing. ‒ the report emphasises the importance of the role of local authorities in international development. as these institutions play an important role in the lives of citizens, their opinion-forming, mobilizing role can make a major contribution to change in addressing challenges such as social exclusion, migration, food security, public security, law enforcement or environmental challenges. achieving good governance at local level is therefore an important condition for achieving sustainable development overall. in accordance with the above objectives, and following the line of the people's party, i voted in favour of the adoption of the report.
in writing. ‒ the report emphasises the importance of the role of local authorities in international development. as these institutions play an important role in the lives of citizens, their opinion-forming, mobilizing role can make a major contribution to change in addressing challenges such as social exclusion, migration, food security, public security, law enforcement or environmental challenges. achieving good governance at local level is therefore an important condition for achieving sustainable development overall. in accordance with the above objectives, and following the line of the people's party, i voted in favour of the adoption of the report.
in writing. ‒ the report emphasises the importance of the role of local authorities in international development. as these institutions play an important role in the lives of citizens, their opinion-forming, mobilizing role can make a major contribution to change in addressing challenges such as social exclusion, migration, food security, public security, law enforcement or environmental challenges. achieving good governance at local level is therefore an important condition for achieving sustainable development overall. in accordance with the above objectives, and following the line of the people's party, i voted in favour of the adoption of the report.
in writing. ‒ the report emphasises the importance of the role of local authorities in international development. as these institutions play an important role in the lives of citizens, their opinion-forming, mobilizing role can make a major contribution to change in addressing challenges such as social exclusion, migration, food security, public security, law enforcement or environmental challenges. achieving good governance at local level is therefore an important condition for achieving sustainable development overall. in accordance with the above objectives, and following the line of the people's party, i voted in favour of the adoption of the report.
in writing. ‒ the report emphasises the importance of the role of local authorities in international development. these institutions play an important role in the lives of citizens. their opinion-forming, mobilising role can make a significant contribution to change in addressing challenges such as social exclusion, migration, food security, public security, law enforcement or environmental challenges, all of which have important roles for local authorities. achieving good governance at local level is therefore an important condition for achieving sustainable development overall. in accordance with the above objectives, and following the line of the people's party, i voted in favour of the adoption of the report.
in writing. ‒ the report emphasises the importance of the role of local authorities in international development. as these institutions play an important role in the lives of citizens, their opinion-forming, mobilizing role can greatly contribute to change, local authorities have an important role to play in addressing challenges such as social exclusion, migration, food security, public security, law enforcement or environmental challenges. achieving good governance at local level is therefore an important condition for achieving sustainable development overall. in accordance with the above objectives, and following the line of the people's party, i voted in favour of the adoption of the report.
in writing. i agreed with the part of the report that local micro, small and medium-sized enterprises should be positioned for job creation and sustainable and inclusive economic growth. i could not support the report as a whole, although the intention is good, but the way it is being implemented is not correct, it is being done in the interests of political and economic interests. on the other hand, it's worth looking at the chart in the 2015 report of the millennium development goal gap task force, which shows that official development aid (oda), which for decades should have been 0.7% of gdp, is reaching the desired level in very few developed countries, while many times more aid is being spent on armaments and wars.
in writing. ‒ the submission proposes that the ep take a position on the role of local authorities in developing countries in development cooperation. it examines the role of these local authorities in development cooperation, looks at opportunities, considers problems encountered and their possible solutions. i supported the motion in line with the s&d group's position.
in writing. ‒ the report emphasises the importance of the role of local authorities in international development. as these institutions play an important role in the lives of citizens, their role as opinion-formers and mobilizers can make a major contribution to change. local authorities have an important role to play in addressing challenges such as social exclusion, migration, food security, public security, law enforcement or environmental challenges. achieving good governance at local level is therefore an important condition for achieving sustainable development overall. in accordance with the above objectives, and following the line of the people's party, i voted in favour of the adoption of the report.
in writing. ‒ the report emphasises the importance of the role of local authorities in international development. as these institutions play an important role in the lives of citizens, their role as opinion-formers and mobilizers can make a major contribution to change. local authorities have an important role to play in addressing challenges such as social exclusion, migration, food security, public security, law enforcement or environmental challenges. achieving good governance at local level is therefore an important condition for achieving sustainable development overall. in accordance with the above objectives, and following the line of the people's party, i voted in favour of the adoption of the report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of adopting the report on the role of local authorities in developing countries in development cooperation, taking into account that the un 2030 agenda for sustainable development highlights local authorities as important actors in the organisation and achievement of development goals, alongside governments, parliaments and other international organisations. in line with this, the eu should continue to support local authorities in developing countries. their involvement is essential to ensure transparent and accountable governance and to achieve the post-2015 targets as close as possible to the people. i agree that the key goals and challenges of the development programme depend on local action. i also find it important that the report mentions the role of local authorities in conflict prevention and management. i therefore support the report's call for decentralised cooperation and the recommendation that member states coordinate their efforts to make room for local authorities in their development programmes. as the largest donor of development aid, the eu plays a key role in achieving the sustainable development goals. and by promoting decentralised cooperation, we have a good chance of achieving these goals by 2030.
it's a two-card draw. mr. representative, i would like to discuss some of it with you, but i would like to ask you a question. the argument is that along the lines of man-made boundaries, we have to be careful about who's doing it, the good guys, and who's not doing it, the bad guys. everyone who makes cars and uses coal-based fuels today pollutes the air. my question is: do you agree that the real answer would be to move here in europe to not have petrol or diesel cars at all?
it's a two-card draw. actually, it's not a question, it's a request that i would like to make, because i'm glad that the member of parliament, who is the coordinator of the people's party in the transport committee, mentioned his employees in the automotive industry. as a hungarian, i would like to ask you to join the people's party in a joint program to save the auto workers. 8% of hungary's gdp and tens of thousands of jobs, if volkswagen were to start downsizing as a result of the current scandal. can the pp group and you, the representative, support such an initiative?
mr. president, in the wake of the volkswagen scandal, we have to confront the true value system of the car manufacturers. the case of the engine tampering was not just a one-time mistake, but it also shed light on their general attitude. let me give you a concrete example of what i'm talking about. one of the largest engine factories in the world is located in hungary. audi produces engines here, including some two million tricks that the volkswagen group was recently caught with. the factory did not have enough capacity, so audi decided to expand and chose a natura 2000 site as the site. given that audi contributes almost 10% of hungarian gdp, it did not encounter too much resistance from the authorities. only one environmental activist questioned the legality of the investment. audi tried to settle with him out of court, then tricked him into a court of law and sent him to prison. since then, the innocent audi has been exposed as a manufacturer of millions of fraudulent engines, the natura 2000 site has been destroyed, compensation measures have failed, the court sentenced ferenc zák to three years in prison, and audi and volkswagen remain proud owners of the european environmental management standard iso 14001. i'm sure, ma'am, but how long?
mr. president, in 2011, in the context of the arab spring, the united states and its european allies decided to bring democracy to libya, and that's why nato intervened to remove the dictator. it's an interesting coincidence that it was at this time that gaddafi initiated the introduction of the gold dinar, the single african currency, which would have replaced the dollar. the dictator was killed, but instead of democracy, anarchy followed. the head of the un mission in libya says the situation in the divided country is grim and repressive, worse than under gaddafi. stability, the creation of a functioning state, is also a fundamental interest of the european union. because if the war situation in the north african countries continues, this, together with angela merkel's call, will create an explosive flow of people into the european union.
mr president, one of the european community's greatest achievements in the field of human rights is the abolition of the death penalty throughout europe. not just in the european union member states, but also in european countries outside the european union. it is particularly important that the european community should try to spread this around the world, to try to get those countries outside europe which still use the death penalty to abandon it in the future. but recently, this system has been challenged from within, as the head of the hungarian government, a member state of the european union, was prime minister viktor orbán, who announced that he would consider reintroducing the death penalty in hungary. this is unacceptable. this goes against everything we think of europe, which is the european heritage of civilization for us. the fact that the european community, not just our institutions, but also the member states have been able to take action against this, is not only proof of how strong these values are within the european union, but also that if we take the toughest possible action against a member state that is moving towards dictatorship, that member state's government will back down, just as the orbán government backed down on the death penalty.
madam president, during the july debate in the commission, we were perhaps proud to say that the european union has shown on many occasions, in international forums, its commitment to reducing emissions of air pollutants and its desire to set an example for third countries. well, with the volkswagen scandal, that proud, fat chest may be a little bit off, but that doesn't mean that we have an obligation to fill a gap in the law, to make a directive in a certain performance range, that's necessary, of course. and it's also because - i'll tell you another health fact - this air pollution is reducing the life expectancy of eu citizens by eight months. i am glad, however, that the commissioner has congratulated the rapporteur, because it means that you support the very serious and important amendments without which i could not accept this proposal.
it's a two-card draw. i'm asking you a very important question. i agree that russia should be considered an important world power in this settlement. however, we do know that russia is clearly seeking to restore president assad to power. do you see the possibility of bringing stability and peace to a country where so many people are fleeing president assad? so do you see any possibility that president assad will remain in power, even if only to a limited extent?
mr. president, i would like to express my sincere appreciation to father andrzej halemba, who is carrying out his church humanitarian relief work in the country of refugees, syria. he believes that not only migrants should be helped, but also those who want to stay at home. and the conditions for that are the politicians' job. president lech wałęsa, drawing parallels with the former refugees of communism, also argued in one of his statements for staying home. like many of his countrymen of his time, he did not leave his country to change its situation, to fight for a viable future. syria is not allowed to move to europe. the real solution is not to emigrate, but to settle the political situation, to create peace and security. the right of the syrian people to return to their homeland must be guaranteed, not to emigrate.
i'll close this discussion. the commission shall be assisted by the committee established by article 15 of regulation (eu) no 182/2011.
the following point is inserted after point 2 of the annex to the decision:
it's a two-card draw. madam president, you have mentioned a series of conflicts, such as syria and turkey, where the european union is forced to negotiate with parties with weapons and the european union does not have weapons. we're the only ones with the financial means. do you agree that more aid and development promises should be made in the union's foreign policy, but with much more conditionality?
we have reached the end of the group leader's round, and i cannot give you a chance to win because we have to finish the session on time.
i'll close this discussion. i adjourn the meeting until 12:00. the commission shall be assisted by the committee established by article 15 of regulation (eu) no 182/2011.
mr. president, honourable members of parliament, hungary is in mourning. it is my sad but heartfelt duty to report here before the european parliament, the political body directly elected by the peoples of europe, that one of europe's sages, one of the greatest figures of hungarian democracy, died yesterday: göncz árpád, former writer, a great figure of the 1956 freedom revolution, the first man of the republic of hungary for ten years after the change of regime, the president of the republic. it is a great honour to be able to commemorate in this house one of the great sages of europe, one of the main architects of eastern european democracies, and it is perhaps symbolic that today, when events are taking place in this house, they may have taken us out of the political day-to-day. göncz árpád was a hungarian writer, translator, politician, sentenced to life imprisonment for his role in '56, released after six years. he became a member of the first hungarian parliament after the change of regime, became its president, and then for ten years the president of the republic of hungary. since then, there has been no leader of hungary like him, popular, loved by the hungarian society, who received the "vision for europe" award in 2000 for his work in creating a united europe. later, his daughter, göncz kinga, became your colleague, a member of the european parliament. i just want to say goodbye to him with a quote, to leave us, the politicians of today, his thinking. he said, "somewhere, the real secret to popularity is not always conforming to the demands of popularity". our relationship to power is what we're measured by. who used it for what. let's remember göncz barad.
in writing. ‒ the 2017 calendar of sittings follows the usual order of business approved by parliament from year to year. i accepted the offer.
in writing. ‒ i have accepted the calendar of meetings for 2017 prepared in the usual way. the procedure follows the practice of the past years.
in writing. ‒ in my view, the success of tunisia's democratic transition depends on future economic and social development. it is an undeniable fact that the country has significant long-term growth potential. implementing the expected reforms and the benefits already existing - such as human resources and an open economy - will together unlock this potential, boosting the country's economy in a more sustainable and inclusive way. the tunisian economy has suffered a significant decline in recent years both domestically and internationally, especially in terms of trade with europe, which remains the main partner. in this context, it is essential that tunisia is made a priority for the union and that the union makes concrete economic and investment commitments to support the country's fragile democratic transition, bearing in mind that the success of the tunisian experiment is in the interest of the region as a whole and of the union as a whole. the participation of tunisia in union programmes should therefore be considered in this light. i particularly welcome the objective of promoting cooperation in the fields of university education, general education, training and youth, for example in the framework of erasmus+ and other programmes aimed at building personal relationships.
in writing. tunisia is the only country where the export of democracy has not led to bloody conflict, so far. i supported the resolution that this should continue to be the case, because the growth of trade and tourism can stabilize the economy, thereby improving the country's viability, while also reducing the propensity to migrate, which is the key question of our time.
in writing. ‒ tunisia is the only country where the arab spring has so far brought about a shift towards an open society, freedom and democracy. the success of the experiment is also in the interest of the mediterranean region and the union, and it is therefore essential that the eu should support it with concrete economic and investment commitments. i supported the proposal to provide tunisia with specific benefits in terms of participation in eu programmes.
in writing. ‒ the regulations on the introduction of the european small claims procedure and on the european order for payment procedure are intended to simplify crossborder judicial proceedings within the european union and to reduce the financial burden of such proceedings. these provisions are mainly in favour of consumers and smes, as the regulation contains rules which generally facilitate the enforcement of claims before the courts. experience shows that the scheme has been well received and its application has reduced the duration of procedures by an average of 40%. this amendment, taking account of the practice of recent years, seeks to make the rules of the regulation more responsive to the needs of the workforce. significant simplification, for example by modernising the rules for electronic service or by amending the threshold. the tripartite discussions on the dossier resulted in a basically favourable compromise, and i therefore voted in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ the regulations on the introduction of the european small claims procedure and on the european order for payment procedure are intended to simplify crossborder judicial proceedings within the european union and to reduce the financial burden of such proceedings. these provisions are mainly in favour of consumers and smes, as the regulation contains rules which generally facilitate the enforcement of claims before the courts. experience shows that the scheme has been well received and its application has reduced the duration of procedures by an average of 40%. this amendment, taking account of the practice of recent years, seeks to make the rules of the regulation more responsive to the needs of the workforce. significant simplification, for example by modernising the rules for electronic service or by amending the threshold. the tripartite negotiations on the procedure resulted in a fundamentally favourable compromise, and i therefore voted in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ the regulations on the introduction of the european small claims procedure and on the european order for payment procedure are intended to simplify crossborder judicial proceedings within the european union and to reduce the financial burden of such proceedings. these provisions are mainly in favour of consumers and smes, as the regulation contains rules which generally facilitate the enforcement of claims before the courts. experience shows that the scheme has been well received and its application has reduced the duration of procedures by an average of 40%. this amendment, taking account of the practice of recent years, seeks to make the rules of the regulation more responsive to the needs of the workforce. significant simplification, for example by modernising the rules for electronic service or by amending the threshold. the tripartite negotiations on the procedure resulted in a fundamentally favourable compromise, and i therefore voted in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ the regulations on the introduction of the european small claims procedure and on the european order for payment procedure are intended to simplify crossborder judicial proceedings within the european union and to reduce the financial burden of such proceedings. these provisions are mainly in favour of consumers and smes, as the regulation contains rules which generally facilitate the enforcement of claims before the courts. experience shows that the scheme has been well received and its application has reduced the duration of procedures by an average of 40%. this amendment, taking account of the practice of recent years, seeks to make the rules of the regulation more responsive to the needs of the workforce. significant simplification, for example by modernising the rules for electronic service or by amending the threshold. the tripartite negotiations on the procedure resulted in a fundamentally favourable compromise, and i therefore voted in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ i welcome the increase in the threshold for using the european small claims procedure. by allowing the use of the simplified procedure for cross-border claims between eur 2000 and eur 10 000, the proportion of cases where the cost and duration of dispute settlement can be significantly reduced could be increased. i believe that this change will further increase the number of cases where businesses and consumers can achieve cost savings. the threshold for small claims should be kept below the average amount of claims, thereby ensuring the necessary procedural guarantees for larger claims. it should also be borne in mind that the procedure will be used more frequently if the threshold is raised, thereby making it part of the daily routine in the courts. this will facilitate access to the necessary information for potential users of the procedure, in particular consumers. however, raising the threshold above eur 10 000 does not seem feasible at present and the rapporteur therefore supports the value proposed by the commission.
in writing. ‒ the regulations on the introduction of the european small claims procedure and on the european order for payment procedure are intended to simplify crossborder judicial proceedings within the european union and to reduce the financial burden of such proceedings. this is most beneficial for consumers and smes, as the regulation contains rules that generally facilitate the enforcement of claims in court. it is forecast that the application of the new rules will reduce the duration of procedures by an average of 40%. this amendment, taking account of the practice of recent years, aims to make the rules of the regulation more responsive to the needs of the workforce. significant simplification, for example by modernising the rules for electronic service or by amending the threshold. the interinstitutional negotiations on the procedure resulted in a fundamentally favourable compromise and i therefore voted in favour of the report.
in writing. the volume of cross-border trade and services is constantly increasing, so it was natural that the possibilities for simplified assessment and recovery of cross-border small claims had to be created and updated, and i therefore supported the proposal. moreover, consumers and businesses, in particular smes, have also raised the need to further improve the regulation.
in writing. ‒ the regulations on the introduction of the european small claims procedure and on the european order for payment procedure are intended to simplify crossborder judicial proceedings within the european union and to reduce the financial burden of such proceedings. these provisions are mainly in favour of consumers and smes, as the regulation contains rules which generally facilitate the enforcement of claims before the courts. experience shows that the scheme has been well received and its application has reduced the duration of procedures by an average of 40%. this amendment, taking account of the practice of recent years, seeks to make the rules of the regulation more responsive to the needs of the workforce. significant simplification, for example by modernising the rules for electronic service or by amending the threshold. the tripartite negotiations on the procedure resulted in a fundamentally favourable compromise, and i therefore voted in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ the regulations on the introduction of the european small claims procedure and on the european order for payment procedure are intended to simplify crossborder judicial proceedings within the european union and to reduce the financial burden of such proceedings. these provisions are mainly in favour of consumers and smes, as the regulation contains rules which generally facilitate the enforcement of claims before the courts. experience shows that the scheme has been well received and its application has reduced the duration of procedures by an average of 40%. this amendment, taking account of the practice of recent years, seeks to make the rules of the regulation more responsive to the needs of the workforce. significant simplification, for example by modernising the rules for electronic service or by amending the threshold. the tripartite consultations on the procedure resulted in a fundamentally favourable compromise, and i therefore voted in favour of the report as a member of the hungarian delegation to the people's party.
in writing. ‒ regulation (ec) no 861/2007 of the european parliament and of the council has proved particularly useful in simplifying, speeding up and reducing the costs of litigation in crossborder small claims cases. i supported the commission's proposal to extend the scope of this regulation to a significant extent, which seems useful in the light of experience.
in writing. ‒ the regulations on the introduction of the european small claims procedure and on the european order for payment procedure are intended to simplify crossborder judicial proceedings within the european union and to reduce the financial burden of such proceedings. these provisions are mainly in favour of consumers and smes, as the regulation contains rules which generally facilitate the enforcement of claims before the courts. experience shows that the scheme has been well received and its application has reduced the duration of procedures by an average of 40%. this amendment, taking account of the practice of recent years, seeks to make the rules of the regulation more responsive to the needs of the workforce. significant simplification, for example by modernising the rules for electronic service or by amending the threshold. the tripartite negotiations on the procedure resulted in a fundamentally favourable compromise, and i therefore voted in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on emissions from medium combustion plants. in general, there is no regulation at eu level, which needs to be addressed. i welcome the additional clarifications in the text to clarify the application of directive 2010/75/eu on industrial emissions and to maintain regulatory consistency with the industrial emissions directive. the changes proposed by the rapporteur improve the chances of the directive being realistically enforceable and becoming an important tool for improving air quality in the european union without imposing undue burdens on society and the economy, and in this light i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. the fact that air pollution is a crossborder problem and that many member states receive air pollution from neighbouring countries is a fact that calls for action at eu level, and i supported the report. and it's even more so because air pollution is one of the leading risk factors that has a tremendous impact on people's well-being, their health, their life expectancy. the directive seems to be feasible and could be an important tool for significantly improving air quality in the european union without imposing undue burdens on society and the economy.
in writing. ‒ combustion plants are a major source of sulphur dioxide, nitrogen oxides and dust emissions. the commission proposal aims to fill the gap in the current eu legislation on combustion plants. the commission has also concluded that the exemption from the obligation to provide information on the emissions of certain pollutants from combustion plants is not necessary to ensure the proper functioning of the internal market. i agree with the purpose of the proposal, which is why i supported it.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report because i believe that the most polluting installations, such as medium-sized combustion plants (1-50 mw) in this case, need to be regulated. i also agree with the need for reliable air pollution measurement in the member states and for ambitious targets. unfortunately, air quality in many areas of the union still does not meet the established limit values or the targets set by the world health organisation. i think we have managed to send a strong message that the european parliament is committed to cleaner air. but of course we have to keep going, because unfortunately, the constant, little adjustments take time. i believe that in addition to reducing emissions, we should promote alternative energy sources.
in writing. ‒ the coordination of the powers conferred on the commission and the alignment of the specifications for ingredients in food caseins to the international standard are of paramount importance. i urge that in the future they be brought as soon as possible into line with international standards and technical progress, and to this end the commission also proposes the adoption of delegated acts. in line with the report, i stress that ensuring the free movement of safe and healthy food is a priority, which contributes significantly to the health and well-being of citizens. in this regard, it is also necessary to ensure that consumers are adequately informed about the food they consume. in view of the above, i support the motion. i welcome the alignment of the compositional requirements for edible caseins to the codex alimentarius as this will ensure that food businesses can operate on a level playing field on the world market. i also support the labelling requirements for caseins and caseinates, which will allow consumers, particularly those with food allergies or intolerances, to make an informed choice.
in writing. there are many health problems, often transversal, caused by various types of processed milk products, so i could not support this proposal. i have asked the commission questions before, to which i have received no satisfactory answers. in fact, there is currently no solution to properly label potentially allergenic ingredients on final products, so consumers often believe they are getting a healthy product when in fact they are not.
in writing. ‒ the commission has proposed repealing directive 83/417/eec on the approximation of the laws of the member states relating to certain foodstuffs intended for human consumption and introducing a new directive. i supported the proposal to align the existing provisions with other legislation in the field of food law and to align the specifications for ingredients in food caseins with the international standard.
in writing. ‒ the products covered by the directive are not products intended for sale to the final consumer but products sold exclusively by undertakings to undertakings for the production of foodstuffs. it is therefore appropriate to maintain and adapt the existing legislative framework and to simplify the rules. i therefore voted in favour of the report, as i agree that sufficient information should be provided in business-to-business relations to ensure that final consumers are provided with accurate information on food. caseins and caseinates are milk proteins, the first category comprising, inter alia, 80% of the protein in cow's milk. as we know that not only milk sugar (lactose) but also milk protein can cause intolerance or allergy, it is important to indicate the ingredients on the final and intermediate products. the proposal not only involves regulatory simplification and development in food law, but also the use of international units, standards (codex alimentarius).
in writing. ‒ the european parliament's plenary adopted the report by ingeborg grässle on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending regulation (eu, euratom) no 966/2012 on the financial rules applicable to the general budget of the union. the proposal was designed to harmonise the financial regulation and the new rules on public procurement. as the report aimed to bring the eu public procurement rules into line with the financial regulation which sets out the rules for spending the eu budget, i, as a member of the hungarian people's party delegation, supported the adoption of the proposal in agreement with the european people's party.
in writing. ‒ the european parliament's plenary adopted the report by ingeborg grässle on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending regulation (eu, euratom) no 966/2012 on the financial rules applicable to the general budget of the union. the proposal was designed to harmonise the financial regulation and the new rules on public procurement. given that the objective of the report was to harmonise the union's public procurement rules with the financial regulation laying down the rules for the expenditure of the union budget, the hungarian epp delegation supported the adoption of the proposal in agreement with the european people's party.
in writing. ‒ the european parliament's plenary adopted the report by ingeborg grässle on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending regulation (eu, euratom) no 966/2012 on the financial rules applicable to the general budget of the union. the proposal was designed to harmonise the financial regulation and the new rules on public procurement. given that the objective of the report was to harmonise the union's public procurement rules with the financial regulation laying down the rules for the expenditure of the union budget, the hungarian epp delegation supported the adoption of the proposal in agreement with the european people's party.
in writing. the european parliament's plenary adopted the report by ingeborg grässle on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending regulation (eu, euratom) no 966/2012 on the financial rules applicable to the general budget of the union. the proposal was designed to harmonise the financial regulation and the new rules on public procurement. given that the objective of the report was to harmonise the union's public procurement rules with the financial regulation laying down the rules for the expenditure of the union budget, the hungarian epp delegation supported the adoption of the proposal in agreement with the european people's party.
in writing. ‒ the european parliament's plenary adopted the report by ingeborg grässle on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending regulation (eu, euratom) no 966/2012 on the financial rules applicable to the general budget of the union. the proposal was designed to harmonise the financial regulation and the new rules on public procurement. given that the objective of the report was to harmonise the union's public procurement rules with the financial regulation laying down the rules for the expenditure of the union budget, the hungarian epp delegation supported the adoption of the proposal in agreement with the european people's party.
in writing. ‒ the european parliament's plenary adopted the report by ingeborg grässle on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending regulation (eu, euratom) no 966/2012 on the financial rules applicable to the general budget of the union. the proposal was designed to harmonise the financial regulation and the new rules on public procurement. given that the objective of the report was to harmonise the union's public procurement rules with the financial regulation laying down the rules for the expenditure of the union budget, the hungarian epp delegation supported the adoption of the proposal in agreement with the european people's party.
in writing. ‒ the european parliament's plenary adopted the report by ingeborg grässle on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending regulation (eu, euratom) no 966/2012 on the financial rules applicable to the general budget of the union. the proposal was designed to harmonise the financial regulation and the new rules on public procurement. given that the objective of the report was to harmonise the union's public procurement rules with the financial regulation laying down the rules for the expenditure of the union budget, the hungarian epp delegation supported the adoption of the proposal in agreement with the european people's party.
in writing. ‒ the commission has proposed specific provisions on the general public procurement rules of the european union to speed up and make these procedures more efficient, in line with the specificities of civil crisis management. i found the proposals useful and forward-looking, and i supported them.
in writing. ‒ the european parliament's plenary adopted the report by ingeborg grässle on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending regulation (eu, euratom) no 966/2012 on the financial rules applicable to the general budget of the union. the proposal was designed to harmonise the financial regulation and the new rules on public procurement. given that the objective of the report was to harmonise the union's public procurement rules with the financial regulation laying down the rules for the expenditure of the union budget, the hungarian epp delegation supported the adoption of the proposal in agreement with the european people's party.
i don't have the rules in front of me, i have a spontaneous request, but i don't know what the rules are. i would like to ask that some authority or agency take care that at such important events as the previous one, who stops applauding first, because we are used to socialism, that such people are considered enemies of the system, and some serious sanction should be applied against those who, violating the rules of dictatorships, stop early the loud and celebratory standing applause. those who saw the soviet union conventions of that time will remember how long the applause lasted. we're already similar in every way, so i'm proposing that clapping should be mandatory for a while.
in writing. today, the eu is facing the greatest challenges in its history. the greek debt crisis, russia's unrelenting territorial aggression in the eu's neighborhood, the potential for british redemption, and the most pressing challenge of our time is the refugee crisis. the last time the french president and the german chancellor spoke together in the ep's plenary session, the berlin wall fell, the single european currency was launched and the biggest enlargement in the union's history took place. we're expecting similar historic moves today. europe has come to a crossroads. we either advance along the path of the european state or we fall back to the level of mediocrity. the challenges facing the european community can only be met effectively in the long term by closer integration, by the creation of a united states of europe. today is the day to finally put an end to the eu's image as an economic giant and a political dwarf. the greek drama has clearly shown that without a common fiscal and fiscal policy, europe is going from crisis to crisis. without a common eu asylum policy, some member state leaders are putting up unnecessary fences and breaking down european solidarity. without a common foreign and energy policy, some member states' governments are bowing to russia and building nuclear power stations that threaten europe's energy security. today we have two choices: sovereignty, called inward-looking nations, withdrawal and then slow but steady decline, or a federal european state with a competitive, viable european hungary. the democratic coalition's election is not in doubt.
mr president, i would like to address the commissioner of the european union who is present here, and i would like to add a written statement to all that has been said here today on the subject of banks. this written submission is none other than the petition of the hungarian foreign currency creditors, better known as the swiss franc creditors, which was submitted to the european parliament's committee on petitions more than six months ago. the heartless bureaucrats there have all ignored it to this day. i ask you, inspector, what do you know about so-called swiss bank or foreign exchange loans? are you aware that the so-called forint reform has not brought a solution to the hundreds of thousands of hungarian families affected? are you aware that executions have begun? hundreds of thousands of hungarians could lose their homes because of the crimes of the banks. i would like to ask the representative of the commission of the european union who is present what the european union is doing in this regard, what legal validation the hungarian people can expect ... ( the president shall withdraw the floor from the speaker)
it's a two-card draw. i want to ask you a simple question. large multinational companies are essentially tax-free in the european union. the recent decision of the finance ministers to keep this a secret, a mysterious area. do you think the capital markets are not overwhelmed by these crazy amounts of money that are moving through transfers in europe?
it's a two-card draw. i would like to ask you about the timeliness of our current endeavours or achievements. i myself am among those who think that the authors have done a very beautiful and really forward-looking job here. at the same time, you have indicated that there are still many tasks to be carried out. by the time we've done these, even the future tasks you've indicated, will this be obsolete in the light of technological progress?
president of the council. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, five years ago, as you have just said, a few days after the disaster, hungary informed the council of the red mudslides in the west of the country, their effects, and the measures taken by the hungarian authorities to deal with the consequences for man and the environment. shortly after the accident, on 20 december 2010, the council, in conclusions on improving environmental policy instruments, invited the member states and the commission to strengthen the implementation of eu environmental legislation. a considerable body of european union legislation is in place to prevent accidents such as the one in hungary. it includes legislation on integrated pollution prevention and reduction and on the management of waste from the extractive industries, which i believe you referred to. industrial accidents are covered by the environmental liability directive. the management and disposal of waste in a member state is the responsibility of that member state, and each member state is responsible for the transposition and implementation of european union legislation, under the control, of course, of the commission. in particular, member states should ensure that the competent authorities monitor the operation of waste management facilities in the extractive industry. they must also ensure that the necessary measures to prevent contamination of water and soil have been taken and that regular checks are carried out to verify compliance with these measures. it is the commission's responsibility to check that member states are fulfilling these obligations to implement eu legislation. it has the power to take legal action against a member state which fails to fulfil its obligations. in addition, the commission has the right of initiative to submit new proposals to the council and the european parliament if it considers that further action at european union level is necessary. it goes without saying that the council will treat any proposals with due care. i am sure the commissioner will have an opportunity to comment on this. in particular, it is important to fully implement the existing environmental inspection rules in close cooperation with the relevant actors. cooperation projects in the field of environmental inspections, including at regional level, facilitate the full implementation of eu environmental legislation, in particular on waste. ladies and gentlemen, the precautionary principle and the polluter pays principle, as well as the obligation to repair damage to the environment, are now part of the fundamental principles of international environmental law on the one hand, and of the acquis of the european union on the other. they are enshrined in the treaty on the functioning of the european union. in the specific case of the 2010 disaster in hungary, i would draw your attention to the fact that, in accordance with the polluter pays principle, the company responsible for the disaster was subject to heavy penalties.
member of the commission.– madam president, honourable members, as mr la via has stated, the red mud accident which happened on 4 october 2010 in ajka had a very serious impact: 10 people died and more than 150 were injured; 400 houses were flooded, 40 square kilometres of land were affected. about one million cubic metres of red mud flowed downstream, causing the greatest environmental disaster in the history of hungary. relief and rehabilitation expenditure amounted to 35 billion hungarian forints – that is to say about eur 115 million. today, five years later, the main lesson to be drawn is that, in order to prevent this kind of disaster, two conditions have to be met. first, we need to have good legislation in place. secondly, the legislation then has to be fully and effectively implemented. and, of course, it is also important to keep legislation under review, to update it and to make sure it is fit to address new challenges. although nobody can guarantee that other accidents will never happen, we are today in a better situation than five years ago, thanks to the improvements in our legislation. there is, indeed, a large and solid body of eu legislation applying to extractive activities, which includes measuring industrial emissions, preventing major accidents and managing extractive waste, as well as protecting water and natural resources. the commission keeps the implementation of the legislation under close scrutiny and has proposed measures to update and enhance it. since the red mud accident took place a number of legal changes have been adopted to reinforce the mechanisms available to address hazards and accidents in extractive industries. today, the industrial emissions directive and the directive on control of major-accident hazards involving dangerous substances set out requirements on industrial inspections that are more stringent than those applicable at the time of the accident. they also include more detailed obligations to inform the public and to enable it to participate in relevant planning procedures. this will result in safer installations and will increase awareness and make for better preparedness. the commission has been working with member states to ensure the effective implementation of these new inspection requirements. the commission is also cooperating with impel, the network of european environmental inspectorates, to promote best practice in the conduct of inspections. the commission has recently also considered the feasibility of an industrial risk-reducing facility or fund in the framework of the environmental liability directive to deal with the environmental consequences of major accidents. an assessment of this option has been carried out with a high level of participation by stakeholders. in the opinion of the commission, the results do not provide sufficient grounds to propose a new financial mechanism. however, the commission wishes to underline that, although the environmental liability directive in its current form does not impose mandatory financial security schemes at european union level to cover for damage due to industrial accidents, it allows member states to do so and obliges them to develop financial security instruments and markets. extractive waste is one of the larger waste streams in the european union. the transition towards a circular economy should therefore bring about significant improvements. increasing the efficiency of extraction processes will help reduce waste generation and associated pollution. more efficient techniques will allow the remining and processing of quarrying waste. more efficient waste-recovery systems will reduce the pressures on our natural capital. we can reduce our dependence on extractive materials through urban mining – recovering valuable materials from the products we no longer need, for example by getting the gold from used mobile phones. hungary was also devastated by the baia mare disaster of 2000 when cyanide used in gold mining in romania leaked into the danube river. if we can get more gold from used electronic equipment, we can use less cyanide. the revised directive on waste electrical and electronic equipment will ensure that member states collect 85% of such waste, increasing the potential supply of gold from recycling. finally, the commission is using horizon 2020 funding to boost research and innovation, to develop clean and sustainable production of primary and secondary raw materials, to reduce waste generation and to develop environmentally-friendly technologies that prevent hazardous waste generation. in our 2014-2015 work programme we specifically allocated more than eur 150 million to a focus area on waste: a resource to recycle, reduce and recover raw materials.
on behalf of the ppe group. madam president, i thank the commissioner, mr la via, for his thoughts and for his remembrance, and as a former resident of the area i would like to recall very briefly the disaster of red mud that spilled from the reservoir of the mal zrt. near ajka exactly five years ago, on 4 october 2010, and that flooded three towns: kolontárt, devecsert and somlóvásárhely. as a result of the disaster, as mentioned earlier, it is worth remembering that ten people died, more than two hundred were injured, and hundreds of houses were rendered uninhabitable. the unprecedented destruction forced an exemplary stand. in the emergency situation, hungary simply stood as a human being. the authorities' decisive and professional action has received widespread international recognition. the position of the civilians became a symbol of the deep-rooted solidarity of hungarian society. the colontár, devecser and somló market are the symbol of the unity. it is extremely important to me that the decision on the lessons of the disaster mentions this. i am pleased that the environment committee has unanimously adopted a draft resolution which, in addition to a sound assessment of the causes of industrial accidents, sets out future tasks. for me, kolontár's real lesson is the failure of the polluter pays principle. in fact, although eu legislation provides for liability, without mandatory financial guarantees the polluter will not be able to recover the damage he has caused. it is therefore essential that the european commission continue to work towards the creation of a union disaster insurance system capable of applying the 'polluter pays' principle to large-scale industrial disasters. the european solution is in our hands, it is time for the union to do its homework from the colonels.
on behalf of the s&d group. madam president, when we talk about this disaster, the first few thoughts i think we all have to have are about the people involved in the accident and the victims and their relatives. undoubtedly, this disaster caused incredible devastation in one of the most beautiful areas of hungary, defining the fate of this entire region, including the families of the survivors, for a very long time. what we've done, and there were many contributors to this report, i think everyone has done their job with a lot of self-control, and in that sense we've really managed to focus a little bit more on the broader picture than just one disaster, and maybe it's true that we've managed to learn some lessons from the events. two very important lessons for me: one, which mr. hölvnyi said, is the principle of 'the polluter pays'. it is a long-term task to be able to develop a european system of safeguards to deal with any disaster that may occur in the union. however, we must not forget that in this case, the hungarian authorities considered this facility to be in perfect order a few days before the accident, and issued the relevant documents. in english, if there is control, there is also responsibility, and that's a very, very important part of it. the other very important lesson that i think is worth mentioning here is that, yes, that's when the whole country is moving. that was a very nice example. individuals, institutions, corporations, companies, everyone was trying to help those in trouble. at the same time, the aid that was collected on the roads that were otherwise maintained by the state, this was because the accounting was no longer so clear, it was not very clear who's contribution went where. i think these are very important lessons that we should all take to heart.
on behalf of the verts/ale group madam president, five years ago kolontár suffered perhaps the worst environmental and industrial disaster in hungary's history. so on the fifth anniversary, the first and most important thing we do is to remember those ten victims and the hundreds of injured who suffered in this disaster. on the other hand, it is also clear that we as politicians have a duty to do everything possible to prevent such a disaster from happening again. the lessons from the collateral damage are multi-layered. we have seen that hungary has implemented eu legislation incorrectly, and that the incorrect implementation of the mining waste directive has also played a role in the disaster. there were also serious problems with the implementation of legislation, and the disaster was caused by the incorrect application of the legislation on hazardous waste. and as mentioned, the weak performance of the authorities also played a very important role. the previous commission prepared a document on official environmental controls, which has not been seen since in the new commission's diary. i think that on the occasion of the fifth anniversary we rightly expect the commission to come forward with a proposal on environmental audits. at the same time, as many others have mentioned, a very important lesson of the disaster in the colombier is that the 'polluter pays' principle cannot be applied effectively in europe today. the commission has already proposed a number of measures to help the environment, such as a system of compulsory environmental liability insurance and the creation of a common european industrial disaster fund. these must be examined and the appropriate means must be found to prevent what happened in hungary five years ago, when a loss of 40 billion forints, or about 120 million euros, had to be covered by the hungarian taxpayers, the hungarian budget, and those who caused the damage did not contribute a single penny. we expect the commission to make appropriate proposals for a system to prevent polluters from evading their responsibilities. i ask the commission not to wait for the next disaster.
madam president, this great tragedy lives deep in the soul of every contemporary hungarian. so i want to take the next minute to highlight something else besides the environmental and industrial approach. i am proud of what hungarian society showed in those days and in the months that followed. i am proud of it, because just as in recent months the civil world has moved and done its job for the government in relation to refugees, it is incredible in this period how much fundraising, forint donations and other donations have started in hungary. when the red dust washed away the lives of the people in and around kolontár, solidarity, strength and humanity were shown. in a country where almost one in six people live in income poverty, in this country, more than 2 billion, more than 6.5 million euros, have been raised from public funds. it's a nice experience, but there's a downside. and this is about looking at exactly how the government has spent the resources that society has put together. some of it was given to the victims, but a larger part was deposited in a bank account, reportedly frozen at the time, to take advantage of bank interest. then it was used for so-called community purposes. i do not deny, and i hope that many communities have benefited from the money that has been put together by members of the community in community institutions. well, there's also the example of the $11 million artificial grass soccer field. i'm not sure that we, the members of society who donated, intended to use the money for that. all of these lessons are important for the long term. i thank parliament for dealing with this issue and i am proud of the unity of hungarian society.
madam president, it's been five years since one of the worst industrial environmental disasters in hungary's history. it was a disaster that left ten people dead, 150 injured, 300 houses uninhabitable, and immeasurable damage to the population and the environment in hungary. however, this disaster was followed by a series of scandals and corruption cases in the years that followed. the scandalous cleanup, the injustice of the damage assessments, and the missing compensation money further compounded the terrible human tragedies that a number of people had to endure in and around kolontár. viktor orbán's government even used this terrible human tragedy to carry out corruption cases. according to a hungarian investigative portal specializing in investigating corruption cases, more than 10 billion forints of taxpayers' money, out of the 38 billion forints that were intended for total compensation, have been proven to have gone into the pockets of pro-government oligarchs and businesses. most of the money was made by a company, a company of an oligarch, a government-linked oligarch, which is still under investigation by olaf. on the other hand, as my colleague has already mentioned, the hungarian population has collected huf 2 billion to help with the damage. unfortunately, some of that 2 billion forints disappeared, and some of it was used not to repair the damage, not to help the victims, but for spectacular investments. it was built, as already mentioned, a fifa-compatible football field, a memorial park, a school track, and a residential park, but half of the houses were unusable, so the victims could not use them. so beyond the environmental lessons, beyond the industrial lessons, there's another lesson: that unscrupulous politicians are able to exploit other people's terrible tragedies to enrich their own political economic cloister. and this is unacceptable, this is unacceptable. (the intervener agrees to answer a question for a blue card under article 162 (8) of the rules of procedure)
it's a two-card draw. well, all of this can be said, and i don't want to say anything else, but as a person who knows the area well, go there, i'll be very happy to take you, and see those rebuilt villages, see those areas. and i think that mr. molnar's speech and his accusations were completely unworthy of the whole thing. but i'm asking you all to go there and see how the restoration is going.
that's a two-card answer. mr. representative, what is undignified is that the government you supported has funneled much of this money to the economic empire. you used people's deaths, people's tragedies to make your oligarchs more money. the simicska lajos you know well, you don't like him now, but he used to be your favorite oligarch, he got more than 10 billion forints. look, the european union's anti-fraud office is currently pursuing a series of cases against this company. last week, the head of the european union's anti-fraud office also made legal recommendations on these cases. you stole some of that money, and that's a shame.
mr. president, i'd like to mention a previously unreported cause of the red mud disaster. it's a social cause. in the early 90s, hungary was privatized, huge state assets were transferred to private hands, to people who were then, as people of the old system, in the right place at the right time. this layer is characterized by profit-making, irresponsibility, and of course, disregard for environmental regulations. the other fundamental issue is that five years after the disaster, the criminal case has not yet been decided in the first instance. so there's no one personally responsible. what example does this set for other owners, who see that even the most reckless disaster-causing behavior goes unpunished?
mr. chairman, continuing my colleague's question, what is the answer to be found in criminal proceedings? first, what were the rules governing the particular work process and storage? has anyone broken these rules, and if so, who? did you break it knowingly and intentionally, or did you break it for some reason without knowing the rule? if you knew the rule and broke it, did you foresee the possible consequences of your actions and perhaps lightly trusted that they would not occur, or did you fail to foresee them because you failed to exercise the due care and consideration? the relatives of the dead have a right to know the answers to these questions. the injured have the right to receive answers to these questions, and so does the whole of hungarian society.
it's a two-card draw. - mr. deputy, nord stream supplies russian gas directly to germany. you mentioned that the current capacity is half-used. that means building another line would cost four times that. i ask you, has it not occurred to you that germany is preparing with this unreasonably large capacity for the possibility that gas will be stopped from passing through ukraine? is it possible that's what he's planning?
mr president, there is no doubt that the long-term future of europe's energy supply must be built on renewable energy. this is not just a matter of environmental considerations or some obscure green ideology, but can simply be the guarantee of europe's energy security, the engine of job creation, industrial and economic development. but of course we need these as well, because we haven't been able to replace them with conventional energy sources. this is where diversification is needed, because without diversification, the european union's energy security in this area cannot be sustained. according to official data from the european commission, european energy prices have already fallen significantly as a result of diversification. of course, russian gas must play a part in this diversification, but we must be clear: the european union's dependence on russian gas is not one-sided. the russians need us europeans just as much, simply because we europeans are far more reliable partners in achieving european energy security than their new far eastern partners. therefore, diversification of both renewable and conventional energy sources is necessary.
in writing. i think there is no dispute between us that it is the member states' responsibility to determine the composition of the energy mix. however, the question of what powers the guarantee of security of energy supply falls under is no longer so clear. the creation of the single internal market places more responsibility on the european union. i therefore believe that there are areas of energy policy where the eu's responsibility is crucial. winter is coming again, the time of the gas crisis. the security of gas supply is becoming more and more important in our daily lives. the construction of new links and the development of two-way transport are slow processes, which is why the indicators of unilateral dependence in the cee region are only slowly improving. the commission's role in the development of the winter package, which has already come into force on 1 october, is welcome, and we can therefore be confident that supply to both ukraine and the member states through ukraine will be resolved next winter. on the basis of the above considerations, i followed with interest the official launch of the nord stream ii gas pipeline project, as the project's implementation could have a significant impact on the central and eastern european region, both from the gas market and energy policy point of view. for the sake of clarity, i have the following questions to put to the commission: what are the criteria used by the commission to assess the shareholder agreement? although the project is referred to by policy makers as a corporate matter, gas market analysts believe that the current industrial environment does not justify the investment. how does the commission see this situation?
i would like to quote point (q) of the report and i have a specific question for the commission representative here and for mrs zaborska, our rapporteur. it says (q) because certain categories of women, including ethnic minority, lesbian, bisexual, transgender... (p-p-p-p-p) women, are exposed to a risk of cumulative discrimination in employment and work. other i would like to ask the rapporteur, mrs zborská, whom i respect very much and who is very knowledgeable, and who happens to be a member of the conservative camp and is slovak, so from a peripheral country in central and eastern europe, whether she thinks that the discrimination between women in the countries of the centre and those of the periphery, between nurses and carers, who are typically paid five or ten times as much as women, should not have been mentioned with such emphasis. and that's what defines their whole life, because they have to leave their home to support their children. i am awaiting the reply of the commission representative and the rapporteur to this question.
it's a two-card draw. madam representative, you have urged action by member states. i'll give you an example from a member state, hungary, where, by the way, textbooks are subject to state or government control. a sixth-grade textbook in hungary says that girls are supposed to be better at reading than most boys, but boys are better at math. boys and girls differ in certain physical abilities and mental abilities. it's in a sixth-grade elementary school textbook in hungary. your party's fidesz controlled textbook.
in writing. as is well known, in europe, and particularly in central europe, women perform better than men in attaining higher education. however, this is not reflected in the labour market, and at the same time, more and more unskilled men are appearing among the unemployed. the stability of families is also increasingly in question, while education is facing a growing responsibility and responsibility. the solution would be to strengthen a more harmonious family division of labour and equality between the parties, also declared in the institution of marriage, in accordance with the fundamental law of hungary. the family must remain the fundamental building block of society, since it is in the family that children can develop most. i would like to emphasise the work of the rapporteur, ms zaborska, and confirm that the report's emphasis on the values of the people's party was a priority. and as for the selection of female leaders, fitness should remain the main consideration. it is essential that the wider public be given objective information on the qualities of female managers and their imbalanced, increased responsibilities and disadvantages in relation to child-rearing, which is due to the current practice of gender division of labour. unfortunately, this aspect was not emphasized in the report, nor was the length of service taken into account. thus, the contradiction in the development of balanced and non-discriminatory valuation and rating systems has remained.
i'll close this discussion. the vote will take place on thursday 8 october 2015 at 12 noon. the commission shall be assisted by the committee established by article 15 of regulation (eu) no 182/2011.
i'll close this discussion. the vote will take place on thursday 8 october 2015 at 12 noon. the commission shall be assisted by the committee established by article 15 of regulation (eu) no 182/2011.
i'll close this discussion. the vote will take place on thursday 8 october 2015 at 12 noon. the commission shall be assisted by the committee established by article 15 of regulation (eu) no 182/2011.
i voted in favour of the report on financial services regulation. i consider the strict regulation of financial services to be particularly important as a hungarian, since i am faced with the consequences of bank fraud, abuse and behaviour that is contrary to consumer protection rules every day when i investigate the complaints of hundreds of thousands of hungarian foreign currency creditors. it is not only in this area that financial services need to be regulated, but also, for example, the fact that despite all this, despite the tragedies of foreign currency loans, the various credit structures, credit cards are being forced on the hungarian people in a terrible and violent way, whether at the airport or elsewhere, this too needs to be regulated very strictly.
in writing. ‒ the report proposes to amend the previous regulations on payment services in the internal market. the amendment aims to enable existing and new payment service providers, irrespective of the business model used by payment service providers, to provide their services under a clear and harmonised regulatory framework. payment transactions must be secure, protecting consumers against the risk of fraud. member states, the commission, the european central bank and the european network of central banks should ensure fair competition in this market, avoiding any discrimination against any of the existing market participants. any payment service provider should be able to offer authorised online transfer services. this provision will support consumers, it will increase their sense of security, and that is why i voted in favour of it.
in writing. in trade and services, in addition to the rise of card payments, there is a dynamic development of new payment methods such as online, mobile and other. given that these are largely cross-border transactions, i supported the report, which provides a clear and harmonised regulatory framework at eu level, in the interests of consumer safety. it aims to ensure that payment transactions are secure and protect against the risk of fraud.
in writing. ‒ the commission has proposed to the parliament and the council to adopt a directive of the european parliament and of the council on payment services in the internal market, and to amend directives 2002/65/ec, 2013/36/eu and 2009/110/ec and repeal directive 2007/64/ec. the committee on economic and monetary affairs, accepting the report by antonio tajani of the italian people's party, proposes that parliament propose an amendment to the commission's draft at first reading. i supported the proposal of the committee on economic and monetary affairs.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the adoption of the supplementary report. there is a constant flow of technical innovation in the area of payment services and it is therefore inevitable that our community rules will follow these changes. i welcome the strong emphasis in the report on the security of card payments, without which there can be no effective integrated market for card payments. i consider it important that the report provides detailed listings of individual distortions of competition and that it further strengthens the data protection aspects of the original text. in assessing the supplementary report, i also noted that it emphasised the need to have a harmonised regulatory framework and to ensure a high level of consumer protection.
i voted yes, of course, on the report on the relief of mortgage debtors. let me quote one figure: in spain, 95 families lose their homes every day. the situation in hungary is even more serious. as i said in my speech, the enforcement proceedings are being initiated in relation to foreign currency borrowers. the moratorium on evictions is lifted, and families will lose their homes if this is not prevented. and to prevent that, i would highly recommend that all professionals, all lawyers, all ngos, all advocacy groups, read this report, which i'm posting on my website and on my facebook page.
in writing. ‒ this motion for a resolution calls on the commission to monitor the implementation of directive 93/13/eec on the principles governing loans to households by financial institutions in all member states in order to ensure full compliance by national authorities. the precedent is that in spain the banks deceived the population with swiss franc-based loans and other financial instruments in the same way as in hungary. the motion for a resolution refers to regulation 93/13/eec on fair banking practices and asks the commission to monitor its implementation in each member state. i naturally agree with the proposal, especially since hungary has had to deal with this serious problem alone and still has to do so today, without the help of the commission and even in the midst of attacks due to its banking regulation.
in writing. the fact that in spain, as in other peripheral and newly joined countries, the public could be deceived with loans and other financial products denominated in swiss francs is a clear example of the regulatory deficiencies of the banking system. i fully supported this motion for a resolution calling on the commission to monitor the changes in spanish legislation on mortgages and the implementation of directive 93/13/eec on the principles governing the fairness of credit operations by financial institutions to the general public in all member states in order to ensure full compliance by national authorities. in hungary, banks committed much more serious abuses, yet when our government tried to at least somewhat improve the situation, it was the eu that attacked it.
in writing. ‒ the committee on petitions, on the basis of the petitions received, tabled a motion for a resolution on the spanish legislation on mortgages and risky spanish financial instruments. in spain, the number of evictions is unacceptably high, largely due to abusive behaviour of financial institutions towards their clients. the draft calls on financial institutions in the european union to stop this behaviour and to avoid evictions of single-dwelling families, on the spanish authorities to reduce the number of evictions with the means at their disposal and on the commission to initiate legislation to address the problem. i voted for the motion.
hungary had the death penalty until 1990 or '91. as a university professor, i was with my students in a criminal law seminar at the time, partly in court hearings where the death penalty was being enforced. i had to face the man who will be hanged in the name of hungarian society. we were actually on a prison visit, so i could look into the cell where the particular person on death row was. i've been in a much harder position since this happened to me. it's terribly difficult to say that i support the death penalty, that is, to take the life of a particular person in my name. but it's precisely as a criminal lawyer that i see the very brutal, for example, child abuse, anti-life acts as a relapse, when you think about this question. we need to have a debate about the death penalty.
in writing. ‒ the verts/ale, ecr, epp, efdd, alde, gue/ngl and s&d groups tabled a motion for a resolution on the death penalty for an oral question. the groups which tabled the motion, with the exception of the efdd, reached agreement on the content of the resolution, and i supported the compromise motion.
in writing. ‒ i strongly supported the resolution because of the importance of the issue in principle. i also took into account the timeliness of my vote: the 13th anniversary of the introduction of the world day against the death penalty (10 october) is a good opportunity for the european parliament to recognise that the european union will continue to play a leading role in principle and practice in the global effort to abolish this inhuman and outdated form of punishment. to this end, i consider it important that the high representative and the eeas ensure that we consistently represent the rejection of the death penalty in the eu's external relations, including in multilateral and bilateral contacts, with all - and unfortunately too many - of our partners where this practice still exists. i consider the resolution to be a good opportunity to draw attention to the fact that the european union cannot be credible in its role as a flag-bearer against the death penalty if it tolerates in its ranks unscrupulous politicians who try to forge political capital by feeding the base instincts that persist in society, by occasionally 'sparking' the reintroduction of the death penalty, as the hungarian prime minister has done recently. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances, and to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment from harmful substances.
the purpose of punishment is to prevent, prevent, prevent the perpetrator or others from committing a crime in the future. why am i quoting this passage from the hungarian penal code in connection with one of the greatest recent tragedies in hungary, the red sands disaster? because i think it's a bad argument to not care about what happened. let's not look back, let's look to the future, let's try to prevent this kind of disaster from ever happening again. in order to fulfil the obligation of prevention, it is necessary to draw the consequences of the tragedy in terms of accountability. precisely because by identifying the perpetrators and their responsibility, we serve the purpose and principle of prevention.
five years ago, the biggest industrial disaster in hungary's history occurred, the red soap disaster. in this connection, the environment committee put an oral question to the commission and the council. specific questions: what measures, changes in legislation will be taken to ensure that this does not happen again, or if it does, what financial resources can be used to settle the damage. unfortunately, the commission did not give us a meaningful answer to the debate. i am therefore pleased that this topic has been followed by the submission and adoption of a proposal for a decision setting out clear tasks, clear deadlines, the implementation of the 'polluter pays' principle and the establishment of a mandatory harmonised financial guarantee. on all these grounds, i supported the resolution.
in writing. just five years ago, the worst industrial disaster in the history of my country occurred, when almost one million cubic metres of highly alkaline red mud was released into the environment, flooding several communities, killing ten people and injuring some 150 people, as well as contaminating large areas, including four natura 2000 roads. i naturally supported the resolution, since it is a matter of concern that similar industrial sites exist in several member states and that the risk of such accidents still exists today. it is incomprehensible that in the last five years, little seems to have been learned from the events, the effectiveness of the implementation of relevant union legislation and international agreements remains low, delays in controls persist and virtually none of the shortcomings in relevant union legislation have been addressed. i am particularly concerned about the mining waste directive and the european waste register.
in writing. ‒ the committee on the environment, public health and food safety has tabled a motion for a resolution on the lessons learned from the red-hot disaster in hungary. i regard the draft resolution as politically motivated, and as a lesson to be learned, it praises the hungarian government and the national authorities and holds the european institutions responsible for any negatives. i couldn't support the eight-party agreement.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the european parliament's motion for a resolution on the fifth anniversary of the kolomna oil spill. i was involved as a co-author in the process of developing the document, which has succeeded in putting the focus on environmental aspects instead of praising the dubious achievements of the hungarian government. the proposal covers not only red sludge but also hazardous waste from other industrial production. the resolution also calls on the commission to take steps to establish a transparent financial mechanism that can be used in the event of a disaster. other concrete elements of the proposal include the 'polluter pays' principle, the preference for best available techniques, the more effective involvement of civil society and stricter enforcement of relevant eu and other international rules and on-the-spot checks. the proposal also calls for transparency in both public and private disaster funds.
i abstained from voting on this report for the following reason. the gist of the report is that the european union gives money to so-called developing countries that are willing to implement the european union's vision of gender equality. what's wrong with that? more so, because i am myself committed to the principle of equal treatment, non-discrimination. now, the problem is that this isn't just about things like getting girls into school in, say, africa. or ban genital mutilation because it's an unacceptable practice. but also about the forced acceptance of abortion as a human right by so-called developing countries, or the so-called eu standards on intersex, transgender and more being forced on these countries in exchange for aid money. this is unacceptable to me.
in writing. ‒ i agree with increasing the social participation of women and promoting it through concrete measures. i support a large part of the motion, but i abstained. one reason for this is that the proposal states that: country-specific recommendations under the european semester should also include objectives for the effective implementation of the principle of equal treatment. i reject the european semester as an instrument in itself to restrict the budgetary sovereignty of the governments and parliaments of the member states. the second reason is that the proposal requires that gender balance be ensured in the boards of directors on the basis of a specific quota. in my various jobs, including in the hungarian parliament, i have worked with such excellent and highly respected female colleagues who would have considered it humiliating to have been given the opportunity not directly through their own performance but as "vocational teachers".
in writing. ‒ the committee on development has tabled a motion for a resolution on the renewal of the action plan on 'gender equality and the empowerment of women in development cooperation'. the draft welcomes the commission's intention to develop a new action plan on gender equality and proposes key aspects of the new action plan. i supported the bill.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of renewing the action plan. the eu action plan on gender equality and the empowerment of women in development cooperation (2010 to 2015) has achieved important results, but the work is far from complete. that is why i support continuing it for the period 2016-2020. by working towards the three priorities (ensuring the physical and mental well-being of women and girls; promoting women's economic rights; and strengthening the empowerment and participation of women and girls), we are also contributing to the achievement of the sustainable development goals. i agree with the recommendation that the new action plan should focus on all aspects of the union's external policies, but further development is also needed within the union. only with this in mind can we expect commitment from developing and candidate countries. i particularly welcome the fact that they have highlighted the need to involve men and boys, their active participation and the importance of their responsible attitude in the fight against discriminatory social stereotypes and violence against women and girls. it is important that young girls have access to education, but it is equally important that young boys have access to education in order to build a society free of discrimination and violence.
i was referring to mrs. zaborska's report on gender discrimination. and i think that the peculiar situation has arisen - if i understand the debate correctly - is that the rapporteur himself has abstained, that is, he has not voted on the report in his own name. that might sound a little strange to outsiders. let me explain briefly, since it's very important to you from the point of view of the report. we're constantly being evaluated by various, invisible and unknown outside companies, which are then referenced in our nation-states by newspapers and so on. for example, they give a lot of points for reports. i will not attempt to write a report, however, because the example of ms. zborská proves that she - a woman of conservative values and great knowledge - was forced to look at every second sentence in her report, intersexuality, transgender, such rights, such rights... a series of texts completely alien to her own values. they've been using bad language to try to change your report. that's what you get very often in this institution, which doesn't tolerate deviation from its own politically correct line.
in writing. ‒ i welcome the work of the rapporteur, ms záborská, in presenting the people's party's values in the report on equal opportunities and equal treatment between men and women in employment and occupation. i consider it very important to emphasise the need for women in the workforce to be highly focused on long-term sustainability and on creating financial stability in ageing societies in order to create a social climate in which work and childcare become fully compatible. however, i regret to note that despite the efforts of the rapporteur and many members of the european parliament, although social policy is embedded in an already existing institutional and value system in each country, the report contains a number of recommendations which are a serious breach of the principle of subsidiarity and thus undermine the report rather than reinforce it, which i cannot support, such as the introduction of sanctions in each member state for employers who discriminate, or mandatory gender equality annual business plans for companies.
in writing. ‒ i welcome the work of the rapporteur, ms záborská, in presenting the people's party's values in the report on equal opportunities and equal treatment between men and women in employment and occupation. i consider it very important to emphasise the need for women in the workforce to be highly focused on long-term sustainability and on creating financial stability in ageing societies in order to create a social climate in which work and childcare become fully compatible. however, i regret to note that, despite the efforts of the rapporteur and many members of the european parliament, although social policy is embedded in an already existing institutional and value system in each country, the report contains a number of recommendations which are a serious breach of the principle of subsidiarity and thus undermine the report rather than reinforce it, and which i cannot support, such as the introduction of sanctions in each member state for employers who discriminate, or mandatory gender equality annual business plans for companies.
in writing. ‒ i welcome the work of the rapporteur, ms záborská, in presenting the people's party's values in the report on equal opportunities and equal treatment between men and women in employment and occupation. i consider it very important to emphasise the need for women in the workforce to be highly focused on long-term sustainability and on creating financial stability in ageing societies in order to create a social climate in which work and childcare become fully compatible. however, i regret to note that, despite the efforts of the rapporteur and many members of the european parliament, although social policy is embedded in an already existing institutional and value system in each country, the report contains a number of recommendations which are a serious breach of the principle of subsidiarity and thus undermine the report rather than reinforce it, and which i cannot support, such as the introduction of sanctions in each member state for employers who discriminate, or mandatory gender equality annual business plans for companies.
in writing. ‒ i welcome the work of the rapporteur, ms záborská, in presenting the people's party's values in the report on equal opportunities and equal treatment between men and women in employment and occupation. i consider it very important to emphasise the need for women in the workforce to be highly focused on long-term sustainability and on creating financial stability in ageing societies in order to create a social climate in which work and childcare become fully compatible. however, i regret to note that, despite the efforts of the rapporteur and many members of the european parliament, although social policy is embedded in an already existing institutional and value system in each country, the report contains a number of recommendations which are a serious breach of the principle of subsidiarity and thus undermine the report rather than reinforce it, and which i cannot support, such as the introduction of sanctions in each member state for employers who discriminate, or mandatory gender equality annual business plans for companies.
in writing. ‒ i welcome the work of the rapporteur, ms záborská, in presenting the people's party's values in the report on equal opportunities and equal treatment between men and women in employment and occupation. i consider it very important to emphasise the need for women in the workforce to be highly focused on long-term sustainability and on creating financial stability in ageing societies in order to create a social climate in which work and childcare become fully compatible. however, i regret to note that, despite the efforts of the rapporteur and many members of the european parliament, although social policy is embedded in an already existing institutional and value system in each country, the report contains a number of recommendations which are a serious breach of the principle of subsidiarity and thus undermine the report rather than reinforce it, and which i cannot support, such as the introduction of sanctions in each member state for employers who discriminate, or mandatory gender equality annual business plans for companies.
in writing. ‒ i welcome the work of the rapporteur, ms záborská, in presenting the people's party's values in the report on equal opportunities and equal treatment between men and women in employment and occupation. i consider it very important to emphasise the need for women in the workforce to be highly focused on long-term sustainability and on creating financial stability in ageing societies in order to create a social climate in which work and childcare become fully compatible. however, i regret to note that the report contains a number of recommendations which are a serious attack on the principle of subsidiarity and which weaken the report rather than reinforce it, and which i cannot support.
in writing. ‒ i welcome the work of the rapporteur, ms záborská, in presenting the people's party's values in the report on equal opportunities and equal treatment between men and women in employment and occupation. i consider it very important to emphasise the need for women in the workforce to be highly focused on long-term sustainability and on creating financial stability in ageing societies in order to create a social climate in which work and childcare become fully compatible. despite the efforts of the rapporteur and many other members of the european parliament, the document contains a number of recommendations which are a serious breach of the principle of subsidiarity and which weaken the report rather than reinforce it, and i cannot support them. these include the introduction of sanctions for employers who discriminate in each member state, and mandatory gender equality annual business plans for companies.
in writing. ‒ i welcome the work of the rapporteur, ms zaborska, in presenting the people's party's values in her report on equal opportunities and equal treatment for men and women in employment and occupation. i consider it very important to emphasise the need for women in the workforce to be highly focused on long-term sustainability and on creating financial stability in ageing societies in order to create a social climate in which work and childcare become fully compatible. however, i regret to note that, despite the efforts of the rapporteur and many meps, although social policy is embedded in an already existing institutional system and set of values in each country, the report contains a number of recommendations which are a serious breach of the principle of subsidiarity and thus undermine the report rather than reinforce it, which i cannot support, such as the introduction of sanctions in each member state for employers who discriminate, or the mandatory gender equality annual business plans for companies.
in writing. ‒ the committee on women's rights and equal opportunities adopted a report on the application of directive 2006/5/ec of the european parliament and of the council of 5 july 2006 on the implementation of the principle of equal opportunities and equal treatment of men and women in matters of employment and occupation, and a proposal for a resolution on the basis of that report. the draft concludes that directive 2006/54/ec of the european parliament and of the council on the implementation of the principle of equal opportunities and equal treatment of men and women in matters of employment and occupation has reached its limits, has exhausted its possibilities and should therefore be further developed. i voted in favour of the draft, considering the problem raised to be crucial.
in writing. ‒ i welcome the work of the rapporteur, ms záborská, in presenting the people's party's values in the report on equal opportunities and equal treatment between men and women in employment and occupation. i consider it very important to emphasise the need for women in the workforce to be highly focused on long-term sustainability and on creating financial stability in ageing societies in order to create a social climate in which work and childcare become fully compatible. however, i regret to note that, despite the efforts of the rapporteur and many members of the european parliament, although social policy is embedded in an already existing institutional and value system in each country, the report contains a number of recommendations which are a serious breach of the principle of subsidiarity and thus undermine the report rather than reinforce it, and which i cannot support, such as the introduction of sanctions in each member state for employers who discriminate, or mandatory gender equality annual business plans for companies.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report, which rightly highlighted that greater equality between men and women, reducing the gender pay gap, would increase economic performance, contribute to poverty reduction and have a positive impact on society in general. the report examined in detail the issue of equal opportunities for men and women in employment, highlighting all the areas where almost all member states need to improve. i consider it important that the report noted that the small decline in the employment and wage gaps between the sexes in recent years was due to the economic crisis, as some member states tend to attribute such changes in statistical indicators to their own merits. however, this prevents us from achieving real results in reducing the wage gap and increasing employment and competitiveness. at the same time, i would point out that access to lifelong learning, vocational training and mentoring networks cannot be limited to women. it is important for both sexes to have this opportunity throughout europe.
in writing. ‒ this is a very important piece of legislation, and there are a number of important community measures in the area of equal opportunities and equal treatment between men and women. the results of the application shall be reviewed annually. i voted to approve the report.
it's a two-card draw. as the eu institutions struggle and work to solve the refugee crisis, i often wonder, for example, as a member of the foreign affairs committee, what kind of forces can be at work? there was a big scandal recently when the czech defense minister told a czech newspaper that he had learned from the hungarian defense minister that putin's russia was financing the buses in the balkans that were supposedly transporting refugees by the ton. have you heard about this scandal in the czech republic? because if that's the case, then we need to think about it seriously.
we live in difficult times, facing difficult challenges that test the european union over and over again. first of all, i would like to join those who thank the work of those who are protecting the borders today and now, and the work of the volunteers who are helping to take care of the migrants. at the same time, i see that even though we live in difficult times, we can make them worse by inconsistent actions, by misunderstood statements. i see the terrible images that are circulating on the web, but i also see that the purpose of these images is not to shock us and talk about it in every single manifestation, but to actually motivate us to act, to find solutions that actually work. i can't turn off the television when i'm criticized, i can't ignore the voters' demands, i might even say their will, when it comes to handling the migrant crisis. you have to learn from these mistakes. our job is to find a solution that works. less talk and more action. the protection of the external borders, including the schengen borders, must be firmly ensured. the schengen acquis must not be forgotten. we can't put them at risk by not complying with laws that don't make them better. we can talk about dublin not working, but it has to be done right now with the resources, the budget to do it. (the intervener agrees to answer a question for a blue card under article 162 (8) of the rules of procedure)
it's a two-card draw. i rarely praise the words of a fidesz member of this house. i thank the vice-president for all that she said about the hungarian volunteers, because tens of thousands of people in hungary have done their job, and are doing their job. at the same time, i would like to ask you, madam vice-president, whether you agree with the words of your own group leader, which we heard a few minutes ago from mr weber, in which he says that it is not the eu institutions and brussels that are bankrupt, but national governments that are breaking up, that are tearing the european union apart, and that it is the self-serving national ego that is making it impossible to solve the crisis. that's what your leader said. do you agree with that, madam representative?
that's a two-card answer. i think you're very careful. i'm as comfortable with socialist praise as i am with the trojan horse, so i'll be careful with that. the hungarian government considers it important to support and fund ngos, and these ngos can help provide care for migrants here, so i thank you for your work, and i thank the government for that. and what the government is doing is enforcing the laws, registering migrants, protecting the green border and keeping the border crossings open so that migrants can come and be registered in accordance with european union law. we're talking about 350,000 people here. that's a lot of money. (the intervener agrees to answer a question for a blue card under article 162 (8) of the rules of procedure)
that's a two-card answer. i don't think i rubbed my hands, i grabbed my earphones, if that's considered rubbing, then i rubbed. but as for your question, it's a perfectly valid one. we have to deal with the problem where it arises, namely, one of the places of origin is syria, the other of origin is turkey, and all the refugee camps that these countries cannot provide. it is our duty and our responsibility to help these countries and to help solve the problem, but it is not a problem solution to irresponsibly make statements that we are responsible for the flood of migrants and then talk about the women and children who have come all the way to germany and that we will send them back through some kind of reintegration system. it's a cold thing. we have to be responsible.
in writing. every wall falls down, today, tomorrow, or in a hundred years. orbán's fence will fall like the berlin wall.europe was born to tear down walls, not to build them. no, these are not hungarian opposition politicians, but pope francis, german chancellor angela merkel and italian prime minister matteo renzi. there is no responsible politician in europe today who would address the refugee crisis by building walls or deploying the army. the history of europe in the 20th century has taught us that the iron curtain, the encirclement of ourselves, is not the solution, it only adds to the tension. there is no high fence that will stop people who are desperate to save their lives and the lives of their families. no army can stand up to the masses of families fleeing. we, europeans, hungarians, have a duty to take in refugees from war, because we were refugees once. if we turn our backs on those who are in trouble, on the persecuted, we lose our humanity, our european identity. today, the threat to europe, to the european way of life, is not refugees, but the rampant national egoism, the abandonment of our european identity and our principles, the policy of closed doors. europe cannot be a fortress, its walls cannot hold, and sooner or later they will fall.
in writing. i agree that the european council will focus its october meeting on tackling the refugee and migrant crisis, which is a historic challenge for the eu, with a view to reinforcing the measures envisaged at the previous informal meeting. the commission has proposed an appropriate package of measures and financing to the heads of state or government. it is now urgent to confirm this and start implementing it. however, you recalled that the eu unity needed for effective joint action had not been achieved in an informal way, as some european leaders - above all the hungarian prime minister - continued to put their own political interests first, undermining the common eu solution. i believe it is urgent that this time the members of the eit recognize the danger and stand firm against the practices and communications of member states on asylum which are degrading to refugees, inhumane and defamatory of the eu. this also requires that, as in the ep, the political responsibility of leaders who, in opposition to the principles of their party family and their collective policy, openly attack the adopted reception quota system, endanger the eu's efforts, be highlighted at the level of heads of state or government. in particular, i expect from this important eit meeting that, following political pressure from member states and the joint action of the leaders of the european institutions, the orbán government will also take up its share of the common european tasks related to refugees, while at the same time ceasing to manipulate its domestic public opinion.
on behalf of the verts/ale group.– madam president, today we vote on our report concerning the climate agreement in paris. at the moment, when the environmental credibility of the european institutions has been shaken by scandals within the car industry, i find it extremely important to send a very strong signal with this report. the report itself is a strong signal, and i would like to thank mr pargneaux, our rapporteur, for that. still, there are some important considerations to raise. being ambitious is not merely a question of restoring europe’s credibility; it is also a scientific necessity if we want to limit climate change to two degrees. evidence shows us that we need to phase out carbon emissions by 2050 to limit climate change to two degrees, and it is possible, but without this phasing out it becomes an illusion to put us on a track which keeps us below the two-degree target. that is why i am deeply concerned about the amendment tabled by the ppe group, because i believe that if we water down our commitment to decarbonisation till 2050, we will step on a track which takes us beyond or above the two-degree limit. also it is important to mention that the indcs which we already have are clearly not enough to reach our goal of keeping climate change below the two-degree target. this means that we need mechanisms to raise ambition within the european union and at global level at the paris talks. one last point: to phase out co2 emissions, the first step for that is to phase out fossil subsidies, and that is something we have to do very soon.
the european union should first of all clarify one question: when, in retrospect, does it consider the paris climate conference to have been a success? what this report shows is that there is a major objective, to prove what should no longer be, that the european union is the engine, the front-runner in the fight against climate change, and now we are setting more ambitious goals. it says that by 2030, a 40% reduction is just a lower limit, and by 2050, it's all about eliminating carbon dioxide emissions. these goals are unrealistic and do not achieve the desired result. they're not realistic because they don't take into account the economic impact, the cost, the impact on energy costs, and they don't achieve the goal because it's a global problem. the european union is responsible for 9% of emissions, while the united states and china account for 35%, and therefore they should be forced to make mandatory emission reductions, and this is not mentioned once in this paragraph 82. the other aspect is that nuclear energy is not included as a clean energy source for fossil fuels and climate change. that is also unacceptable under paragraph 82.
i would also like to turn to a subject which is a subject of debate for the representatives of the european union in paris. mr eck has already mentioned that other sources of pollution do indeed occur compared to those we have known so far. we're always angry about cars and heating and this and that, but let's not forget that agriculture is also one of the biggest emitters of carbon dioxide, and not just from animal agriculture, but also, unfortunately, from methane emissions from untreated forests. so if we're going to build a future, i'm asking everyone to be mindful not just of the conditions that have been so often announced, but also of the new phenomena that we haven't anticipated.
in writing. the traditional annual un climate change conference is not far behind. paris is much more than that, because our planet is about to take a historic step. the kyoto protocol on reducing carbon emissions expires this year. therefore, a reasonable agreement to reduce emissions signed and ratified by all carbon-emitting countries is needed to prevent global warming with irreversible consequences. the european union has already made a firm commitment, which requires the rest of the developed and developing world to follow suit. i believe that the new agreement should be dynamic, providing for continuous monitoring and the possibility of reviewing reduction commitments. it is also important that the richer, more fortunate countries provide financial and knowledge support to developing economies to help them transition from the traditional fossil-based development phase to the new technologies and environmentally-friendly economic development. fortunately, there is a generation growing up in hungary that is more concerned about the environment than their parents, avoiding chemical, genetically modified foods, preferring local vegetables, eco-tourism, community gardens - and politicians have a duty to help and support this process.
in writing. this december is not just the traditional annual un climate change conference. paris is much more than that. the world is about to take a historic step. the kyoto protocol expires this year and a new, more ambitious agreement on emissions reductions than ever before is needed to prevent global warming with irreversible consequences. the european parliament has sent a clear message to the paris negotiations with the resolution before us. the union has made a firm commitment which requires a major sacrifice on the part of european economies. now it's up to the developed and developing world to follow suit. in my view, in order to achieve the 2°c target, the new convention must be dynamic, providing for continuous monitoring and the possibility of reviewing reduction commitments. it is also important that the richer, more fortunate countries provide financial and knowledge support to developing economies to help them transition from the traditional fossil-based development phase to the new technologies and environmentally-friendly economic development. finally, let me turn to one of the most important references in the judgment: my colleagues in the people's party and i have managed to get a reference to the encyclical laudato si' which was published this summer to be included in the resolution. because pope francis' message, which is to emphasize our personal responsibility, has become, in my opinion, indispensable in the international dialogue on climate change.
i would like to join those who want to separate the soviet intervention in syria and the crimea. i say soviet intervention because it really does remind us of an imperial step. at the same time, it should be seen that many are interested in some kind of better relations with the russian side, perhaps rewarding them for their involvement in syria, perhaps being more lenient in the case of crimea. no, you can't. we reject that. the second point i would like to make is that next week there will be local elections in ukraine, and unfortunately, despite all the reforms, the ukrainian side still has to organise the constituencies in such a way that the national minorities, in this case the hungarian and especially the romanian national minorities, can also have a proper representation.
the situation in ukraine is unchanged. the government has failed to lift the economy, there is no stable state functioning, corruption is flourishing, the power of the oligarchs is unchanged. the european union was unable to contribute to the solution. this would require that we take into account the interests of all parties concerned. there would be no armed separatists if the ukrainian government had taken into account the aspirations of the population of eastern ukraine for self-determination in time. it is very popular in this parliament to simply label president putin as an aggressor and thereby close the issue with russia, but perhaps russia's legitimate national security interests should also be taken into account as the united states slowly extends nato's border to russia's borders.
i'll close this discussion. the commission shall be assisted by the committee established by article 15 of regulation (eu) no 182/2011.
the following point was raised by mrs calude moraes, on behalf of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs, in her oral question to the commission on antisemitism, islamophobia and hate speech in europe (2015/2848 (rsp)) (b8-0765/2015)
it's a two-card draw. i agree with the list of problems that the honourable member has listed, but i have a question. whenever we touch on this subject, we're talking about the religious, although the non-religious, the atheists, are very often disadvantaged, for example, in my country, hungary, there are many communities where the state doesn't even maintain a secular school. what do you think of that?
i think we can all agree that anti-semitism and all forms of hate speech are a cancer on the body of european societies that must be cut out by radical means. we cannot tolerate, our core values are incompatible with hatred, intolerance and intolerance. i have to say that today in europe, it is not only the far-right parties that are fomenting hatred, but unfortunately, hate speech, cultural intolerance is also appearing among the mainstream parties, when some parties are constantly talking about the need to protect christian europe. this term serves no purpose other than to exclude those who do not fall into this category from the european community. i must say that we must recognize that the most fundamental values of the european community are cultural diversity and tolerance, and we must continue to adhere to these values with the utmost rigor.
i'll close this discussion. the commission shall be assisted by the committee established by article 15 of regulation (eu) no 182/2011.
in writing.– as policymakers it is our responsibility to provide adequate instruments to protect the more vulnerable groups in our society and to empower law enforcement authorities to deal properly with cases of discrimination. anti-semitism and islamophobia are both serious phenomena that can endanger peaceful cohabitation and destabilise our communities. i am therefore always supportive of initiatives which are put into place to defend religious, linguistic and national minorities. still a lot needs to be done to prevent and fight prejudice and hate speech. prejudice and intolerance are mostly a consequence of ignorance and fear. it is therefore important to engage not only policymakers, but also academics, educators and members of civil society to address this issue, in order to develop possible approaches to countering this phenomenon, through education, interfaith exchanges and positive image building.
in writing. hate speech, racism, xenophobia, anti-gypsyism and their incitement are all simplified responses to social problems by political extremists. sometimes the exclusion of a minority from society is too strong, its existing problems are too complex, and there are no quick, immediate answers. we need complex, long-term programs that require the solidarity of society and, of course, taxpayer money. in such a situation, the easiest response is always to incite hatred. the refugee crisis has grown to enormous proportions in a relatively short time. sadly, there are more and more sounds of hate throughout europe, from the most subtle to the most brutal, almost nazi-like. and the reason these responses are the lowest is because they're based on a fear that's in all people: the feeling that if we spend on those in need, then the majority will have fewer resources for themselves. that's a lie! the hate and fear campaigns, the building of walls and fences are not only inhumane, but they cost no less than social assistance. i did. the case of hungary proves that the anti-immigration campaign and the construction of the fence cost more taxpayer money than the aid given to refugees. in most european countries, hate speech is prohibited by criminal law when it is committed by an individual, but so far, nothing seems to prohibit it when it is embodied in government communications! we have to work together to stop this.
the next item is the one-minute oral questions on important political questions (rule 163).
in its 2014 report, the romanian intelligence service the former secret police of dictator ceauşescu, like the securitate still considers the 1.5 million hungarians in transylvania, as well as their legitimate demands for autonomy and rights, as a threat to state security. the latest summit of the extremist, chauvinist organization of romanian szekler people demanded an increased presence of romanian state bodies the police and the army in the overwhelmingly hungarian szeklerland, and the minister of defense mircea duşa threatened an attack on the szekler autonomy aspirations. the renewed anti-hungarian propaganda and incitement is likely to be aimed at the mass movement of october 24, which will illuminate the 750-kilometer border of the szekler-hungarian region with fireworks. i ask for your protection for the hungarian romanians who are threatened!
the volkswagen scandal has not only affected the automobile industry but also the national economy of some countries. the german car assembly plants, which rely on cheap and skilled labour, play a significant role in hungarian gdp. minister jános lázár spoke at a press conference about the consequences of the expected decline in production. he said that the projected gdp growth was in jeopardy and there was a question of whether the budget numbers for next year could be sustained. the lesson is obvious, and we've said it many times. instead of accepting the colonial situation, an independent hungarian economy is needed, especially for the development of the food industry. so it's possible that the volkswagen exhaust fumes have also wiped out next year's hungarian budget.
that concludes the agenda item.
oral explanations of vote
in writing. ‒ the report aims to enable the designated authorities of the member states and europol to access the visa information system (vis) for the purposes of preventing, detecting and investigating terrorist offences and other serious criminal offences. the unprecedented challenges we are facing today represent a serious threat to the internal security of the eu, which is why we need to put in place special measures to enable the competent authorities to investigate in order to prevent terrorist attacks and other serious crimes. i agree that we should equip our competent authorities with the tools to effectively act against organised crime and terrorism in order to protect our citizens.
in writing. ‒ today's vote gave the green light to the designated authorities of the member states and europol to access the visa information system (vis) for the prevention, detection and investigation of terrorist offences and other serious crimes. the unprecedented challenges we are facing today represent a serious threat to the internal security of the eu, which is why we need to put in place special measures to enable the competent authorities to investigate in order to prevent terrorist attacks and other serious crimes. we, the members of the fidesz delegation, want to equip our competent authorities with the tools to effectively act against organised crime and terrorism in order to protect our citizens.
in writing. ‒ today's vote gave the green light to the designated authorities of the member states and europol to access the visa information system (vis) for the prevention, detection and investigation of terrorist offences and other serious crimes. the unprecedented challenges we are facing today represent a serious threat to the internal security of the eu, which is why we need to put in place special measures to enable the competent authorities to investigate in order to prevent terrorist attacks and other serious crimes. we, the members of the fidesz delegation, want to equip our competent authorities with the tools to effectively act against organised crime and terrorism in order to protect our citizens.
in writing. ‒ today's vote gave the green light to the designated authorities of the member states and europol to access the visa information system (vis) for the prevention, detection and investigation of terrorist offences and other serious crimes. the unprecedented challenges we are facing today represent a serious threat to the internal security of the eu, which is why we need to put in place special measures to enable the competent authorities to investigate in order to prevent terrorist attacks and other serious crimes. we, the members of the fidesz delegation, want to equip our competent authorities with the tools to effectively act against organised crime and terrorism in order to protect our citizens.
in writing. ‒ today's vote gave the green light to the designated authorities of the member states and europol to access the visa information system (vis) for the prevention, detection and investigation of terrorist offences and other serious crimes. the unprecedented challenges we are facing today represent a serious threat to the internal security of the eu, which is why we need to put in place special measures to enable the competent authorities to investigate in order to prevent terrorist attacks and other serious crimes. we, the members of the fidesz delegation, want to equip our competent authorities with the tools to effectively act against organised crime and terrorism in order to protect our citizens.
in writing. ‒ today's vote gave the green light to the designated authorities of the member states and europol to access the visa information system (vis) for the purposes of prevention, detection and investigation of terrorist offences and other serious crimes. the unprecedented challenges we are facing today represent a serious threat to the internal security of the eu, which is why we need to put in place special measures to enable the competent authorities to investigate in order to prevent terrorist attacks and other serious crimes. as a member of the hungarian people's party delegation, i voted in favour of access to the vis to provide the competent authorities with the tools to effectively act against organised crime and terrorism in order to protect our citizens.
in writing. ‒ today's vote gave the green light to the designated authorities of the member states and europol to access the visa information system (vis) for the prevention, detection and investigation of terrorist offences and other serious crimes. the unprecedented challenges we are facing today represent a serious threat to the internal security of the eu, which is why we need to put in place special measures to enable the competent authorities to investigate in order to prevent terrorist attacks and other serious crimes. we, the members of the fidesz delegation, want to equip our competent authorities with the tools to effectively act against organised crime and terrorism in order to protect our citizens.
in writing. ‒ the council adopted a draft decision setting the date of application of decision 2008/633/jha of 23 june 2008 on access for consultation by the designated authorities of the member states and by europol for the purpose of preventing, detecting and investigating terrorist offences and other serious criminal offences to the visa information system and submitted the draft to parliament for consultation. the report of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs recommends that the draft be put to the vote, and i therefore voted in favour of it.
in writing. ‒ today's vote gave the green light to the designated authorities of the member states and europol to access the visa information system (vis) for the prevention, detection and investigation of terrorist offences and other serious crimes. the unprecedented challenges we are facing today represent a serious threat to the internal security of the eu, which is why we need to put in place special measures to enable the competent authorities to investigate in order to prevent terrorist attacks and other serious crimes. we, the members of the fidesz delegation, want to equip our competent authorities with the tools to effectively act against organised crime and terrorism in order to protect our citizens.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report by the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs. access to the visa information system (vis) for the purposes of consultation, by the designated authorities of the member states and by europol for the purposes of the prevention, detection and investigation of terrorist offences and of other serious criminal offences.
in writing. draft amending budget no 6/2015 contains mainly technical adjustments to the revenue side of the union budget. it takes into account the revision of the projections for traditional own resources and for vat and gni resources, the budgetary transfers and financing of the corresponding corrections for the united kingdom, and thus modifies the distribution of contributions to the union budget between member states. the draft amending budget no 6/2015 was adopted by the council. the gni-based national contributions to the budget compared to the original 2015 budget are reduced by eur 2,26 billion as a result of a higher than expected revenue of eur 1 133,5 million from traditional own resources (customs duties and sugar levies) and as a result of the surplus in 2014 being entered in the budget by the budgetary amendment of 3/2015. on the basis of the above, the hungarian people's party delegation supported the adoption of the proposal in agreement with the european people's party.
in writing. ‒ draft amending budget no 6/2015 mainly contains a technical adjustment to the revenue side of the union budget. it takes into account the revision of the projections for traditional own resources and for vat and gni resources, the budgetary transfers and financing of the corresponding corrections for the united kingdom, and thus modifies the distribution of contributions to the union budget between member states. the draft amending budget no 6/2015 was adopted by the council. the gni-based national contributions may be reduced by eur 2,26 billion compared to the original 2015 budget, due to a higher than expected revenue of eur 1 133,5 million from traditional own resources (customs duties and sugar levies) and the surplus for 2014 entered into the budget by the budgetary amendment of 3/2015. on the basis of the above, the hungarian people's party delegation supported the adoption of the proposal in agreement with the european people's party.
in writing. ‒ the council's draft budget is intended to make the technical adjustments required by the latest statistical revision of the forecasts and to transpose into the budget the corrections for the united kingdom in accordance with the allocation agreed between the member states. i voted for the motion.
in writing. the mobilisation of the flexibility instrument has become necessary in connection with the transfer of commitment appropriations within chapter 3 proposed in draft amending budget no 7/2015. the european commission has proposed to mobilise the flexibility instrument as a commitment appropriation of eur 66,1 million in addition to the ceiling of the mff will increase the resources available in the 2015 eu budget in the area of asylum and migration crisis management. on the basis of the above, the hungarian people's party delegation supported the adoption of the proposal in agreement with the european people's party.
in writing. ‒ the mobilisation of the flexibility instrument has become necessary in connection with the transfer of commitment appropriations within chapter 3 proposed in draft amending budget no 7/2015. the european commission has proposed to mobilise the flexibility instrument as a commitment appropriation of eur 66,1 million in addition to the ceiling of the mff is being added to the resources available in the 2015 eu budget to address the refugee and migration crisis. on the basis of the above, the hungarian people's party delegation supported the adoption of the proposal in agreement with the european people's party.
in writing. ‒ the commission has proposed a decision of the european parliament and of the council on the mobilisation of the flexibility instrument for immediate budgetary measures under the european migration strategy. the proposal aims to supplement the resources available in the general budget of the european union for 2015 for the financing of measures to deal with the refugee and migration crisis by a commitment appropriation of eur 66,1 million over and above the ceiling of the multiannual financial framework. the report of the committee on budgets concludes that the ceiling of the relevant commitment appropriations in the 2015 budget does not allow for sufficient funding of important and urgent union priorities and recommends that parliament give its consent to the mobilisation of the flexibility instrument to such an amount. i voted for the motion accordingly.
in writing. the amendment aims to strengthen the eu's resources to deal with the current refugee and migration crisis, thereby addressing the current underfunding in chapters 3 and 4 on domestic and external policies. the amendment increases the amount of emergency aid under the asylum, migration and integration fund and the internal security fund by eur 100 million (commitments). it proposes to increase the number of posts for frontex, easo and europol by 120 and to increase the appropriations for commitments and payments by eur 1.3 million by the end of the year in respect of wage costs. increase the resources of the european neighbourhood instrument by eur 300 million. it will increase the payment appropriations for humanitarian aid by a further eur 55,7 million through reallocation. the draft amending budget no 7/2015 is accompanied by a report on the mobilisation of the flexibility instrument to the extent of the commitment appropriation of eur 66,1 million for the above actions under the european strategy on migration. on the basis of the above, the hungarian people's party delegation supported the adoption of the proposal in agreement with the european people's party.
in writing. ‒ the amendment aims to strengthen the eu's resources to deal with the current refugee and migration crisis, thereby addressing the current underfunding of chapters 3 and 4 on internal and external policies. the amendment increases the amount of emergency aid under the asylum, migration and integration fund and the internal security fund by eur 100 million (commitments). it proposes to create 120 new jobs for the agencies frontex, easo and europol and to increase the appropriations for commitments and payments by eur 1.3 million by the end of the year in respect of wage costs. it also increases the resources of the european neighbourhood instrument by eur 300 million. it will increase the payment appropriations for humanitarian aid by a further eur 55,7 million through reallocation. the commission shall be assisted by the european parliament and the council, acting by a qualified majority on a proposal from the commission, and shall be assisted by the european parliament and the council. on the basis of the above, the hungarian people's party delegation supported the adoption of the proposal in agreement with the european people's party.
in writing. ‒ on 30 september 2015, the commission adopted draft amending budget no 7/2015, which aims to strengthen eu resources to address the current refugee and migration crisis. the draft also provides for an increase of eur 100 million in the amount of emergency aid under the asylum, migration and integration fund and the internal security fund in the form of commitment appropriations, and for additional financing of the european neighbourhood instrument totalling eur 300 million. the committee on budgets recommends that parliament approve council position no 7/2015 on the draft amending budget. i voted for the motion accordingly.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the adoption of the motion for a resolution, which fully complies with the provisions of the interinstitutional agreement between the european parliament, the council and the commission on budgetary discipline. i have taken into account the fact that the additional expenditure resulting from the recent unexpected surge in the number of refugees and migrants present at the external borders of the eu is not covered by the budgetary envelope fixed in chapter 3 of the community budget for 2015. for some particularly affected member states, additional eu funding may be the only source of effective crisis management. i therefore consider the commission's proposal to mobilise eur 66,1 million, in addition to the general budgetary ceiling of the union, as an additional contribution from the flexibility instrument, specifically for measures to deal with the refugee and migration crisis, to be justified and well founded. for me, this decision and the measure now required also confirm that, in the long term and in general, more flexibility in the union's budgetary planning may be needed.
in writing. ‒ the democratic coalition welcomes the fact that the european parliament's committee on legal affairs proposed on monday to suspend the immunity of béla kovács, a former mep. the right-wing mep has been accused of extremely serious charges, which must be thoroughly investigated. as a member of the dk ep, i therefore vote to suspend the immunity of béla kovács at today's plenary session of the european parliament. because i believe that in light of the serious espionage charges, there is room for a thorough investigation, for an independent judicial process.
in writing. article 7 (6) of regulation (eu) 2015/1017 provides that the executive director and the deputy executive director of the esm are to be appointed by the eib in accordance with the eib's procedures following an open and transparent selection procedure and after approval by the european parliament. on 2 october 2015, the esi funds steering committee adopted a proposal for the appointment of the executive director and deputy executive director of the esi funds, which it forwarded to the european parliament. on 13 october 2015, the committee on budgets and the economic and monetary affairs committee held a hearing with iliyana tsanova, the candidate for the post of deputy executive director of the esm, who made an introductory statement and then answered questions from the members of the committee. the european parliament has approved the appointment of ms iliyana tsanova as deputy executive director of the esm. on the basis of the above, the hungarian people's party delegation supported the adoption of the proposal in agreement with the european people's party.
in writing. ‒ article 7 (6) of regulation (eu) 2015/1017 provides that the executive director and the deputy executive director of the esm are to be appointed by the eib in accordance with the eib's procedures following an open and transparent selection procedure and after approval by the european parliament. on 2 october 2015, the esi funds steering committee adopted a proposal for the appointment of the executive director and deputy executive director of the esi funds, which it forwarded to the european parliament. on 13 october 2015, the committee on budgets and the economic and monetary affairs committee held a hearing with iliyana tsanova, the candidate for the post of deputy executive director of the esm, who made an introductory statement and then answered questions from the members of the committee. the european parliament has approved the appointment of ms iliyana tsanova as deputy executive director of the esm. on the basis of the above, the hungarian people's party delegation supported the adoption of the proposal in agreement with the european people's party.
in writing. ‒ proposal from the committee on budgets and the committee on economic and monetary affairs for the appointment of the executive director of the european fund for strategic investments. managing the strategic developments of the coming years is a task requiring a high level of professional competence. i voted in favour of the committees' submissions.
in writing. article 7 (6) of regulation (eu) 2015/1017 provides that the executive director and the deputy executive director of the esm are to be appointed by the eib in accordance with the eib's procedures following an open and transparent selection procedure and after approval by the european parliament. on 2 october 2015, the esi funds steering committee adopted a proposal for the appointment of the executive director and deputy executive director of the esi funds, which it forwarded to the european parliament. on 13 october 2015, the committee on budgets and the committee on economic and monetary affairs held a hearing with mr wilhelm molterer, the proposed candidate for the post of executive director of the esm, who made an introductory statement and then answered questions from the members of the committee. the european parliament has approved the appointment of mr wilhelm molter as executive director of the esf. on the basis of the above, the hungarian people's party delegation supported the adoption of the proposal in agreement with the european people's party.
in writing. ‒ article 7 (6) of regulation (eu) 2015/1017 provides that the executive director and the deputy executive director of the esm are to be appointed by the eib in accordance with the eib's procedures following an open and transparent selection procedure and after approval by the european parliament. on 2 october 2015, the esi funds steering committee adopted a proposal for the appointment of the executive director and deputy executive director of the esi funds, which it forwarded to the european parliament. on 13 october 2015, the committee on budgets and the committee on economic and monetary affairs held a hearing with mr wilhelm molterer, the proposed candidate for the post of executive director of the esm, who made an introductory statement and then answered questions from the members of the committee. the european parliament has approved the appointment of mr wilhelm molter as executive director of the esf. on the basis of the above, the hungarian people's party delegation supported the adoption of the proposal in agreement with the european people's party.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the european parliament giving its consent to the appointment of the executive director of the european fund for strategic investment. i did so in the knowledge that some people still had questions about the identity of mr molterer, but it is in the best interests of the management of the new fund, which plays a key role in our plans to stimulate the european economy, to be able to start work without further delay and to put forward its proposals for the efficient operation of the fund. in general, i believe that the interest of advancing the common cause takes precedence over subjective considerations in the case of personal decisions to fill positions requiring political agreement, and i have applied this principle in this vote.
in writing. ‒ proposal from the committee on budgets and the committee on economic and monetary affairs for the appointment of the executive director of the european fund for strategic investments. managing strategic developments in the coming years is a task requiring a high level of professional competence. i voted in favour of the committees' submissions.
in writing. ‒ i believe that the european parliament is sending a clear message to the paris climate talks with the resolution on the table. the union has made a firm commitment which requires a major sacrifice on the part of european economies. however, i expect - and this is the demand in the text of the parliament's resolution - that all the developed and developing economies of the world will take the same step. we must not make exceptions. i voted in favour of the report, as proposed by the group of the european people's party and the fidesz-kdnp delegation in the european parliament.
in writing. ‒ this december is not just the traditional annual un climate change conference. paris is much more than that. the world is about to take a historic step. the kyoto protocol expires this year and a new, more ambitious agreement on emissions reductions than ever before must be reached to prevent global warming with irreversible consequences. the european parliament has sent a clear message to the paris negotiations with the resolution before us. the union has made a firm commitment which requires a major sacrifice on the part of european economies. now it's up to the developed and developing world to follow suit. as a member of the hungarian people's party delegation, i was happy to support the inclusion of the reference to the encyclical laudato si' in the resolution.
in writing. ‒ the 21st un conference on climate change will be held in paris from 30 november to 11 december 2015. the report by the committee on the environment, public health and food safety stresses that this conference is a crucial stage in the negotiation of a new global agreement on climate change, which will enter into force in 2020. it therefore proposes that the european parliament should support the ambitious but realistic target of reducing greenhouse gas emissions by 50% by 2030 compared to 1990 levels, increasing the share of renewable energy in the energy mix to 45% and achieving 40% energy savings. it also stresses that $100 billion a year should be made available to developing countries by 2020 to help pay for projects to reduce their greenhouse gas emissions and protect communities vulnerable to the effects of climate change, and that the paris conference will be a cornerstone in attracting new sources of finance for this purpose. in this context, it proposes the development of a credible 'financial package' to allow for the intensification of efforts to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and adapt to the effects of climate change. i'm far from agreeing with the ambitions, i've supported them.
in writing. ‒ i believe that the fight against climate change is important, and the paris climate summit could be an important milestone in this. the ep is actively contributing to this by this mandate, which is why i voted in favour of the report. i agree with the report that the fight against the global threat must involve all stakeholders and that this can only be achieved at international level. i believe that reducing greenhouse gas emissions by 40% by 2030, achieving a 40% energy efficiency target and a mandatory 30% renewable energy target will all help to reduce climate change. but i don't think that the numbers are going to solve all the problems. on the one hand, we could go beyond these to achieve greater success, on the other hand, we can only achieve them with active state and local contributions. it is important to note that the growing demand for food on earth - which is counteracting these figures - requires that we encourage agricultural research and innovation, the use of renewable energy sources and the increase in waste recycling, while taking into account job creation and social aspects.
in writing. ‒ proposal for a european parliament and council decision on the conclusion of the agreement in the form of an exchange of letters between the european community and the kingdom of norway on the participation of norway in the union programme 'horizon 2020 - the framework programme for research and innovation (2014-2020) '. the report, which contains important directions and findings, sets out, inter alia, that the european parliament should support the forward-looking objective of reducing greenhouse gas emissions by 50% by 2030 compared to 1990 levels, increasing the share of renewable energy in the energy mix to 45% and achieving 40% energy savings. i voted for the motion.
i shall conclude by giving the reasons for the vote.
it's a two-card draw. although i could have asked all three rapporteurs this question, in order to inform the public as much as possible, what is the commission's best estimate of the annual amount of tax that large companies do not pay? how much damage is being done to european citizens? we hear a lot of songs. could you give me an approximate number, please, congresswoman?
the original package travel directive dates back to the mid-1990s, but much has changed since then. there's been a massive takeover of flights, online ticketing and package shopping, which has us facing a new situation. i would like to thank mrs collin-langen for the excellent work she has done in revising this directive and adapting it to the requirements we face every day. i think this amendment is a very important step forward in terms of keeping consumers out of the grey area and free from the cost of making amendments. i think that this definition that we're going to be dealing with, that we're going to be using, is going to give consumers more security. therefore, mr president, not only on my own behalf but also on behalf of the delegation, we will certainly support this proposal.
rapporteur.– mr president, i would like to begin by thanking the shadow rapporteurs with whom i worked together on this report on the european citizens’ initiative (eci). cooperation was exemplary and, a pleasant surprise for me, the vote in the committee on constitutional affairs (afco) was unanimous. i hardly have to note how rare this unanimity is and that is in itself a message, an indication that the eci is properly regarded as a key instrument in the framework of the institutional structure of the european union. now the underlying idea is both straightforward and subtle. the citizens of europe should have the means to launch legislative initiatives on issues of concern at the european level. everyone is aware of the reality of the remoteness between the eu and its citizens, and the eci is one way of bridging it. let me add here immediately that the right of legislative initiative by citizens does not undermine the representative democracy that is the core value of any democratic system – ourselves in other words. no, the eci enhances european democracy by introducing a form of civic action that communicates in parallel with what we are doing. nor is the eci a form of direct democracy where citizens foregather to take legislative action. that may have worked in the classical greek city states but is nonsense when 500 million citizens are involved. what the eci can do is to adopt a single issue and mobilise a sufficient number of individuals in a form of collective action. the mobilisatory element should not be underestimated. the process of collecting a million signatures in a year demands organisational skills, enthusiasm and commitment to doing something political in europe. from that perspective the eci is a way of bringing citizens into the european political field in an unmediated fashion. ultimately there will always be some tension between the politics of representation and political involvement from below. the idea that a given number of citizens can act together on a single issue of concern adds something new to the political palette of europe and, let it be noted, is already available as a form of political action in some eu member states. what differentiates the european political field from that of a member state is that legislation is initiated by the commission. the eci changes this by adding the citizens to those with the right of launching legislation. this shift therefore changes the equation in european politics by adding a new actor. so much for the underlying theory behind the eci; practice to date has not really fulfilled the promise of the instrument. over 50 initiatives have been organised and none, not one, has reached the statute book. by anyone’s failure criteria this is 100%. indeed, in my consultations with civil society i have detected a clear sense of disappointment with the way in which the commission has handled the ecis that it has received. there have been complaints of bureaucratic dilatoriness – the ‘insolence of office’, the ‘law’s delay’, to quote shakespeare – and a general sense that while the commission has dealt with the instrument with complete correctness legally, it has rather missed the political point, that of civic involvement. so the burden of my report is intended to address these shortcomings and to urge the commission to respond to the voice of the citizens with greater flexibility than hitherto. i have every hope that the promised reform of the eci will make it a genuinely effective instrument. (applause)
the european citizens' initiative would be the instrument to ensure that citizens can participate directly in the decision-making process of the union. but this device is very weak. a million signatures would be enough to get the commission to submit a proposal on the matter. of the 51 initiatives, 3 have been successful and none of them are legislation. the reporter is trying to fix this system. but that's not enough anymore. the migrant crisis has demonstrated how far the political elite of the union - respecting the exception - is from the opinion of its own population. a number of polls have shown how different the public's view of this important issue is from that of the political elite. the institution of the european union referendum should therefore be introduced. that would be true direct democracy. (the intervener agrees to answer a question for a blue card under article 162 (8) of the rules of procedure)
that's a two-card answer. your question is, if we can't get something through here, is it a waste of time to give the public direct decision-making? it is not a waste of time to create a clear and decision-making framework for this, unlike the citizens' initiative we are discussing. just as there may be referenda in your country that make specific decisions, the mechanisms for this should be found in the european union.
rapporteur.– mr president, i would like to thank everybody who has taken part in this constructive debate. i think everyone has been constructive, perhaps with one or two exceptions. i am particularly grateful for the supportive words from vice-president timmermans. there are some issues, which i think have some saliency, that i would like to pick up on (i cannot, obviously, do a summary of everything that has been said). i think the point made by mr goerens about the revalorisation of democratic legitimacy is something that we must think about very seriously. connecting the citizens has come up in a fair number of contributions. then there is the follow-up problem, on which others spoke (mr terricabras notably). nobody knows this, but actually i have a very old and very rusty degree in law, and one of the things i take away from this is that when it comes to legal regulations applying the rules – to quote mr timmermans – there is always some leeway in how one interprets these things. here i would like to call for more flexibility: apply the rules but, where there is a grey area, think about the million people who have been involved. finally, three short issues. treaty change has come up: my own take on this is that yes, treaty change will happen one day, but not in connection with the eci, so primary law is not really a part of this. secondly, as i understand it at the moment, an eci can call on the commission to act in particular ways, but as things stand cannot interdict legislation. this could well be reconsidered. certainly, that is the input i have had from civil society. as i understand it, ecis cannot affect current processes, even if inputs from stakeholders are widely regarded as a viable part of policy information – and whatever the status of citizens in the european political field, they are stakeholders. i would like to end by saying that i very much thank mr timmermans. as far as the eci is concerned, the ball is in his court, and i am sure that his team will do everything to make it viable.
my fellow members of parliament! the refusal to grant the european council discharge is unfortunately not new. the council annually ignores parliament's right to carry out the final vote. this is the fifth year that parliament has refused to give the council's final accounts. the council does not take part in the discharge hearing of the committee on budgetary control, it refuses to answer questions sent by parliament during the final discharge procedure, and it does not forward the documents necessary for the discharge procedure and which are made available to the european parliament by any institution other than itself. we have no information on the background, costs and outcomes of the council's various real estate transactions, nor do we know the details of the costs and outcomes of the council's institutional modernisation. the european parliament's committee on budgetary control cannot take a substantive decision on the financial management of the council. the council does not even meet the most basic expectations of transparency and accountability. it shall be exempt from the rules and procedures which apply to all the institutions of the european union. the european people's party therefore supports the rapporteur's proposal that parliament should not grant the council a discharge.
i hold the flag of szeklerland in my hand and i would like to briefly introduce the szekler people to you. it's a national community of indigenous people. this means that - many people don't know the term - they've been living in the same place in the carpathian basin for over a thousand years. about three quarters of a million or more, all in one place. they have two main aspirations at the moment, both of which you would think are absolutely natural attributes of the european union. one is to use their own language in official procedures, on street signs, on town hall signs and in general communication. the other is that, as they have done many times in their history, they should have autonomy, independence, similar to south tyrol. national self-determination is a basic human right, and the szekler want to live by this basic human right. i ask the european union and the european public to support them in this good cause.
recently, several international organisations have drawn attention to the fact that media freedom is not fully respected in several member states of the european union. this is especially true in hungary, where publicly funded state television unabashedly promotes the government's often anti-european, lying propaganda. today, hungary has a media poverty, which means that in many areas of the country, only government-sponsored taxes can be heard. i have to say that in the past, commercial television had some opportunities to counterbalance this media dominance. but we know that the government has tried to tax these tvs and radios to make them unusable. today, we find that one of the largest commercial television networks is being bought by a group of oligarchs close to the government. i think that we, as meps, must always and everywhere stand up for media pluralism, because if media power is in the hands of one party, one government, then democracy is over.
my fellow members of parliament! in mid-september, first at the hungarian-serbian border and then last week at the slovenian-croatian border, everyone saw how the politics of national selfishness can lead to immeasurable human suffering and chaos. however, after sunday's eu mini-summit on the refugee crisis, there is renewed hope that national pride and separate policies will finally be replaced by cooperation between member states. perhaps no longer can any leader of a member state act without consulting and consulting with another leader. perhaps no one will be able to evade the obligation to register refugees and continue to shift the burden of the refugee crisis onto another member state. many people say that today's refugees are a threat to europe, to the european values. i think that in a historical sense it is precisely the rampant national egoism, the abandonment of our european identity and our principles, the policy of closed doors, the national policies of the one way, that are the danger. we must be clear that no single state can face the refugee crisis alone, only a collective solution is possible.
it's a two-card draw. - mr. deputy, i have to ask you to leave. like many of your peers, you're... afraid of it... celebrating something that doesn't exist. so, what's going to happen in 2016, or 2017, or 2018? that's commendable. but then i ask you, why didn't we make it happen now?
it's a two-card draw. i was relieved to hear from the member that he supported the proposal that has just been tabled. we also know that while the european commission set a much earlier date for the abolition of roaming charges, and we in the european parliament - and the members of the previous parliament - wanted to do so much earlier. what could be the reason why the european heads of government, in the council, have tried to push this back again, to postpone it? nationalist pride, only to make the commission and parliament sick of proposing otherwise, or perhaps the lobby of some multi-companies, in which they have been able to convince governments and not us, the european parliament.
in writing. 15 june 2017 will be an emblematic day for europe. i believe - and i don't think i'm exaggerating - that once the borders are made transferable, this is again an eu achievement that will affect all citizens: finally, it will be possible for citizens of the european union to talk to each other at domestic tariffs from 15 june 2017 at the latest. since 2007, the european parliament has helped citizens and businesses doing business across borders by introducing price caps: over the past few years, the cost of using a telephone abroad has gradually decreased. i would stress that parliament has done everything possible to ensure that roaming charges, which are also considered to be extra-profit, are abolished as soon as possible. the document also addresses the issue of net neutrality. in this context, operators will be obliged to treat all traffic equally and will be prohibited from blocking or slowing down the transmission speed of different services. in addition, it will be possible to sell special services that guarantee high-quality internet access, but not at the expense of the basic internet service. i would like to congratulate my colleague, mr del castillo vera, on his tireless work during the negotiations, and thank him for this excellent achievement.
in writing. - mr president, i have to go. i cannot accept that the council, which brings together the governments of the member states, delays the introduction of roaming charges in europe by two years and threatens the freedom of the internet and its democratic, community character. the democratic coalition is convinced that roaming charges, which make international calls and internet use more expensive, have no place in a europe without borders. roaming charges should be phased out immediately rather than in summer 2017. there is no alternative to this decision, mobile operators cannot charge more for foreign calls than for domestic calls! at the same time, i cannot support a proposal that threatens european net neutrality, or restricts the free use of the internet by european and hungarian people to any degree. member state governments want regulation that results in a two-speed internet: faster bandwidth for the rich, slower, poorer quality for the poor. the current proposal also allows for arbitrary limitations on certain internet services and for certain content defined by the provider not to count towards the consumer's monthly limit. the proposal threatens internet freedom and is harmful to innovation, and could stifle start-ups in hungary. we've seen an experiment recently where the hungarian government tried to tax, restrict the use of the internet. the dk has refused to do so, and we will not support efforts to combat net neutrality at european level either.
it's a two-card draw. i find this double talk amazing! last week, at the people's party congress, you applauded and supported the populist attitude that viktor orbán represents. a representative of viktor orbán's party was elected vice-chairman of the people's party. after that, mr. deputy, mr. group leader, you're not going to put the blame on the socialists. because all the things you've talked about, all the national egoism, the responsibility of the heads of government, you have to look for it on the side of the people's party. stop viktor orbán and i'll believe you have good intentions towards europe.
it's a two-card draw. - mr. deputy, i have to ask you to leave. you've avoided the numbers, but i'd like to ask you one thing: do you have any specific numbers, any percentages, of the number of refugees who come here who are legitimate refugees and the number of those who are not legitimate refugees, who are to be turned back?
the 17 points on the western balkans route are, i think, an important achievement. it shows that a common european policy based on cooperation and solidarity can succeed despite all the difficulties, while a policy based on barriers, selfish isolation and rejection is doomed to failure. however, we all know that we only took the first steps on sunday and i am not referring to further border protection actions and measures. the biggest challenge of the coming period will be the rapid and effective integration of immigrants and refugees. what is needed is acceptance, social integration, not forced cultural assimilation. we need language, education, training, social care. and money, a lot of money! it is not the defence of christian europe that needs to be emphasised, nor is it the fear that needs to be instilled, but rather effective and well-coordinated joint integration programmes. until we achieve this, until the european union has a common integration strategy, we will not be able to move forward.
mr president my fellow citizens! the issue of migration, this crisis situation, has been a constant item on the agenda of our plenary sessions for months. meanwhile, the pressure to migrate increased, the uncertainty grew. i believe that in the current situation, which is deteriorating, we need innovative solutions, responsible action. to be able to really express our solidarity, to really help those who are really in need, we have to put an end to the policy of open borders and unlimited admission. it's time for some straight talk without hypocrisy. the two council meetings, which were held in quick succession, showed that unless the most urgent short and medium-term tasks and the immediate actions to be taken in response to them were identified, the situation would become unmanageable. today, the balkan route is proof of this, tomorrow more and more member states will face a similar crisis at their borders. it was finally time to say what had been in the air since august, what had to be done. for example, the hungarian prime minister was threatened with expulsion a few weeks ago when he dared to say that the protection of the external borders should be given priority, that a distinction should be made between those entitled to refugee status and economic immigrants and that the latter should be sent back. you have to register the newcomers, you can't send them across borders. nor can the migrant choose where to submit to the procedure. we cannot solve the problem within europe until we secure our borders and can tell who and how many can come in. this is also a condition for safeguarding the schengen system, one of the union's greatest achievements. at the same time, we need to help the refugee camps on the ground. they have to be able to access education, to work. after all, the real refugees are in these camps, waiting to return home. our citizens expect responsible, decisive action and i am glad that the madrid congress of the pp included all this in its resolution.
this is not a point of order.
the next item is the vote. (for the results and other details of the vote: see minutes)
the matter is referred back to committee in order to start negotiations with the council.
that concludes the vote.
my fellow citizens! we're back to the voting grounds. i'm informing you that we have received many requests for oral votes and that we must adjourn the meeting at 2:45 p.m. at the latest so that the services can prepare for the resumption of the meeting at 3:00 p.m.
the remaining votes will therefore be taken tomorrow, after the vote. abstentions may be submitted in writing. i hope, colleagues, that you all heard and understood my announcement in this puppet mess.
in writing. ‒ the european parliament, the council and the commission agreed in the interinstitutional agreement on better law-making that community law should be updated and that its scope should be reduced by repealing acts that are no longer applicable. it is necessary to remove from the union acquis acts that are no longer relevant in order to improve the transparency and security of union law. the present case concerns a change of a purely technical nature. commission regulation (ec) no 1881/2006 laying down maximum levels for certain contaminants in foodstuffs has fully transposed the provisions of directive 76/621/eec and regulation (ec) no 320/2006 and it is therefore necessary to repeal the latter. for these reasons, i supported the adoption of the report in line with the european people's party line.
in writing. ‒ the european commission has proposed the adoption of a regulation of the european parliament and of the council repealing council directive 76/621/eec fixing the maximum level of erucic acid in oils (tar oils) and fats (eating fats) and council directive 320/2006 establishing a temporary scheme for the restructuring of the sugar industry. the committee on agriculture and rural development of the ep proposed only a technical clarification in its amendment, and recommended the commission's proposal to parliament for adoption, which is why i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the implementation of the rules of competition for the production and marketing of certain agricultural products and on the establishment of a common organisation of agricultural markets. the proposal aims to repeal provisions relating to the common agricultural policy which are no longer relevant. some of these have been replaced by subsequent acts or have been repealed because of their temporary nature, thus simplifying and reducing the substance of eu law. the report introduces article 114 tfeu on the approximation of laws on the establishment and functioning of the internal market as a new proposal. the aim is to harmonise the dual legal bases of agricultural and internal market policy in respect of the fixing of maximum levels of erucic acid content of oils (food oils) and fats (eating fats). accordingly, the european parliament and the council, acting in accordance with the ordinary legislative procedure and after consulting the economic and social committee, shall adopt measures relating to the establishment and functioning of the internal market.
in writing. ‒ i supported the agriculture committee's proposal to bring it into line with the dual legal basis (agricultural and internal market policies) used when directive 76/621/eec was adopted on the fixing of maximum levels of erucic acid in oils (oilseeds) and fats (eating fats). this is important because of the establishment of a temporary scheme for the restructuring of the sugar industry.
in writing. the report aims to reduce the opportunities for tax avoidance and evasion, so i naturally supported it. the commission notes that the swiss authorities have not provided any evidence that the swiss authorities have been able to obtain the information requested by the commission.
in writing. ‒ the european commission has proposed to the council to repeal council directive 2003/48/ec on taxation of savings (see next point). the directive was also applicable between the member states of the union and switzerland by means of a separate bilateral agreement concluded in 2004. on the other hand, the european union and switzerland signed an agreement on the automatic exchange of financial account information on 27 may 2015, which amended that 2004 bilateral agreement in line with the 2014 oecd global standards for the automatic exchange of financial account information. the council intends to take a decision on the ratification of this agreement and, in accordance with the treaty on the functioning of the european union, it is required to consult the european parliament before taking such a decision. in its report, parliament's economic and monetary affairs committee recommended that the council adopt the draft decision and thereby give its consent to the conclusion of the agreement. i have accordingly supported the council's draft decision.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report, which is an important part of effective action against fraud and tax evasion. tax fraud knows no borders and it is therefore particularly important that tax fraud by natural and legal persons established in the union involving financial institutions established in third countries is prevented by appropriate arrangements. i strongly agree with the point in the report that 18 months after the entry into force of the agreement, the commission should assess its effectiveness. only in this way can we be sure that we have actually prevented taxable persons from concealing income for which tax has not yet been paid by using the facilities provided by swiss financial institutions.
in writing. ‒ the european union and switzerland signed an agreement on 27 may 2015 on the automatic exchange of financial account information to improve international tax cooperation and compliance. the agreement is an important step in their efforts to act against tax fraud and tax evasion and updates the 2004 agreement which ensures that switzerland applies measures equivalent to the eu directive on taxation of savings income on interest, which is why i supported it in the vote.
in writing. ‒ council directive 2011/16/eu on administrative cooperation in the field of taxation was amended by council directive 2014/107/eu to align it with the oecd global standard on the automatic exchange of account information for tax purposes, extending the automatic exchange of information to the full range of income. however, following the 2008 evaluation of council directive 2003/48/ec on taxation of savings, the commission proposed a revision of that directive, which was finally adopted by the council in 2014. if member states now apply the provisions of both directives, they will have to operate a dual system of collection and supply of data for the same data. to avoid this, the commission proposed to the council to repeal council directive 2003/48/ec. the treaty on the functioning of the european union requires the council to consult the european parliament before taking a decision. in its report, parliament's committee on economic and monetary affairs recommended the proposal with amendments for approval by parliament. i supported the motion accordingly.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of adopting the report, which helps member states to avoid additional administrative burdens caused by dual data collection and delivery systems. the fact that the commission's proposal to repeal the 2003 savings tax directive was based on the oral opinions of parliamentary groups, tax experts from dg taxud and independent experts also played a role in my decision. however, as the rapporteur rightly pointed out, the scope of the eu savings tax directive and the administrative cooperation directive is broadly similar, but not exactly identical. i therefore consider it of the utmost importance that the commission continues to monitor the existence of loopholes following the repeal in order to reduce the potential loss of tax revenue for member states.
in writing. ‒ in light of the above concerns about the potential for loopholes and the risk of burdensome double reporting, the rapporteur had to assess the specificity of possible loopholes and whether the burden of double reporting would be greater for a year than ensuring that such loopholes could not occur. the rapporteur has fully examined, with the involvement of experts and through a thorough analysis, any loopholes related to the repeal. it agreed to the repeal but only with three amendments that address its concerns and asked the commission to report on the results of the repeal, citing any loopholes that might arise. it encouraged the commission to take steps to ensure that these loopholes were closed, if necessary in the form of legislative proposals. it considered that these amendments would ensure that parliament fulfilled its role in reducing potential tax revenue losses to member states across the union. that's why i voted for it.
in writing. ‒ with today’s vote we approved the draft council implementing decision on the launch of automated data exchange with regard to dactyloscopic data in sweden. the supply of personal data may not take place until the general provisions on data protection have been implemented in the national law of the territories of the member states involved. the verification that this condition has been met with respect to automated data exchange is done on the basis of an evaluation report based on a questionnaire, an evaluation visit and a pilot run. sweden has completed the questionnaire on data protection and the questionnaire on dactyloscopic data exchange. a successful pilot run has been carried out by sweden with austria. on 13 july 2015, the council concluded that sweden had fully implemented the general provisions on data protection and therefore, for the purposes of automated searching of dactyloscopic data, sweden should be entitled to receive and supply personal data pursuant to article 9 of decision 2008/615/jha.
in writing. ‒ pursuant to council decision 2008/615/jha on the strengthening of crossborder cooperation to combat terrorism and crossborder crime, the supply of personal data required by this decision may not take place until the member states concerned have transposed the general data protection provisions in force on their territory into national law. on 13 july 2015, the council, on the basis of the report submitted to it, concluded that the swedish legislation in force complies in all respects with the general provisions on data protection in chapter 6 of decision 2008/615/jha. the council therefore intends to authorise sweden to receive and supply personal data pursuant to decision 2008/615/jha. pursuant to article 39 (1) of the treaty on european union, as amended by the treaty of amsterdam, and article 9 of protocol no 36 on transitional provisions, the council is to consult the european parliament before adopting a decision. in its report, parliament's committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs recommended the council's draft for parliament's approval. i have accordingly supported the council's draft decision.
in writing. ‒ i supported the report in order to fight terrorism and crossborder crime and to strengthen crossborder cooperation.
in writing. ‒ with today’s vote we approved the draft council implementing decision on the launch of automated data exchange with regard to dactyloscopic data in belgium. the supply of personal data may not take place until the general provisions on data protection have been implemented in the national law of the territories of the member states involved. the verification that this condition has been met with respect to automated data exchange is done on the basis of an evaluation report based on a questionnaire, an evaluation visit and a pilot run. belgium has completed the questionnaire on data protection and the questionnaire on dactyloscopic data exchange. a successful pilot run has been carried out by belgium with austria. on 13 july 2015, the council concluded that belgium had fully implemented the general provisions on data protection and therefore, for the purposes of automated searching of dactyloscopic data, belgium should be entitled to receive and supply personal data pursuant to article 9 of decision 2008/615/jha.
in writing. ‒ pursuant to council decision 2008/615/jha on the strengthening of crossborder cooperation to combat terrorism and crossborder crime, the supply of personal data required by this decision may not take place until the member states concerned have transposed the general data protection provisions in force on their territory into national law. on 13 july 2015, the council, on the basis of the report submitted to it, concluded that the belgian legislation in force complies in all respects with the general provisions on data protection set out in chapter 6 of decision 2008/615/jha. the council therefore intends to authorise belgium by a decision to receive and supply personal data pursuant to decision 2008/615/jha. pursuant to article 39 (1) of the treaty on european union, as amended by the treaty of amsterdam, and article 9 of protocol no 36 on transitional provisions, the council is to consult the european parliament before adopting a decision. in its report, parliament's committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs recommended the council's draft for parliament's approval. i have accordingly supported the council's draft decision.
in writing. ‒ i supported the report in order to fight terrorism and crossborder crime and to strengthen crossborder cooperation.
in writing. ‒ with today’s vote we approved the draft council implementing decision on the launch of automated data exchange with regard to dactyloscopic data in poland. the supply of personal data may not take place until the general provisions on data protection have been implemented in the national law of the territories of the member states involved. the verification that this condition has been met with respect to automated data exchange is done on the basis of an evaluation report based on a questionnaire, an evaluation visit and a pilot run. poland has completed the questionnaire on data protection and the questionnaire on dactyloscopic data exchange. a successful pilot run has been carried out by poland with austria. on 13 july 2015, the council concluded that poland had fully implemented the general provisions on data protection and therefore, for the purposes of automated searching of dactyloscopic data, poland should be entitled to receive and supply personal data pursuant to article 9 of decision 2008/615/jha.
in writing. ‒ pursuant to council decision 2008/615/jha on the strengthening of crossborder cooperation to combat terrorism and crossborder crime, the supply of personal data required by this decision may not take place until the member states concerned have transposed the general data protection provisions in force on their territory into national law. on 13 july 2015, the council, on the basis of the report submitted to it, concluded that the polish legislation in force complies in all respects with the general provisions on data protection set out in chapter 6 of decision 2008/615/jha. the council therefore intends to authorise poland to receive and supply personal data pursuant to decision 2008/615/jha. pursuant to article 39 (1) of the treaty on european union, as amended by the treaty of amsterdam, and article 9 of protocol no 36 on transitional provisions, the council is to consult the european parliament before adopting a decision. in its report, parliament's committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs recommended the council's draft for parliament's approval. i have accordingly supported the council's draft decision.
in writing. ‒ i supported the report in order to fight terrorism and crossborder crime and to strengthen crossborder cooperation.
in writing. ‒ internet sales have significantly changed booking habits, so that many self-organised trips are now not covered by eu rules dating back to the 1990s or do not clearly articulate passenger rights. for this reason, i voted in favour of amending the eu consumer protection rules on travel, so that in future the same rules will apply to online bookings of air, hotel or car rental as those made at a travel agent. under the amended rules, before holiday homes sign the contract, tour operators or sellers of the trip must clearly explain that it is a package. in addition, passengers must be informed of their rights and of their financial responsibility in the event of a problem. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the transport of dangerous goods by road, rail and inland waterway.
in writing. ‒ internet sales have significantly changed booking habits, so that many self-organised trips are now not covered by eu rules dating back to the 1990s or do not clearly articulate passenger rights. for this reason, i voted in favour of amending the eu consumer protection rules on travel, so that in future the same rules will apply to online bookings of air, hotel or car rental as those purchased at a travel agent. under the amended rules, before holiday homes sign the contract, tour operators or sellers of the trip must clearly explain that it is a package. in addition, passengers must be informed of their rights and of their financial responsibility in the event of a problem. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the transport of dangerous goods by road, rail and inland waterway.
in writing. ‒ internet sales have significantly changed booking habits, so that many self-organised trips are now not covered by eu rules dating back to the 1990s or do not clearly articulate passenger rights. for this reason, i voted in favour of amending the eu consumer protection rules on travel, so that in future the same rules will apply to online bookings of air, hotel or car rental as those made at a travel agent. under the amended rules, before holiday homes sign the contract, tour operators or sellers of the trip must clearly explain that it is a package. in addition, passengers must be informed of their rights and of their financial responsibility in the event of a problem. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the transport of dangerous goods by road, rail and inland waterway.
in writing. ‒ internet sales have significantly changed booking habits, so that many self-organised trips are now not covered by eu rules dating back to the 1990s or do not clearly articulate passenger rights. for this reason, i voted in favour of amending the eu consumer protection rules on travel, so that in future the same rules will apply to online bookings of air, hotel or car rental as those purchased at a travel agent. under the amended rules, before holiday homes sign the contract, tour operators or sellers of the trip must clearly explain that it is a package. in addition, passengers must be informed of their rights and of their financial responsibility in the event of a problem. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the transport of dangerous goods by road, rail and inland waterway.
in writing. ‒ internet sales have significantly changed booking habits, so that many self-organised trips are now outside the scope of eu rules laid down in the 1990s or do not clearly articulate passenger rights. for this reason, i voted in favour of amending the eu consumer protection rules on travel, so that in future the same rules will apply to online bookings of air, hotel or car rental as those made at a travel agent. under the amended rules, before holidaymakers sign the contract, tour operators or sellers of the trip must clearly explain what the package is. in addition, passengers must be informed of their rights and of their financial responsibility in the event of a problem. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the transport of dangerous goods by road, rail and inland waterway.
in writing. ‒ online sales have significantly changed booking habits. today, many self-organised routes are not covered by the eu rules dating back to the 1990s or do not clearly define passenger rights. for this reason, i voted in favour of amending the eu consumer protection rules on travel. in future, therefore, the same rules will apply to online bookings of package holidays, including flights, hotel reservations and car rentals, as those purchased at a travel agency. the amended rules require tour operators or sellers of travel to clearly explain, before the holidaymakers sign the contract, if the package is linked to goods. in addition, passengers must be informed of their rights and of their financial responsibility in the event of a problem. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the transport of dangerous goods by road, rail and inland waterway.
in writing. if in a service sector it is appropriate to introduce or maintain regulation at european level, this is certainly true for tourism and related sectors. the amendment tabled by the efdd proposes to reject the regulation, which i find unacceptable because it is contrary to the principles of consumer protection. tourism as a cross-border economic and social sector can only be regulated at international level.
in writing. ‒ tourism plays a central role in the european economy today. the european tourism sector, with its 1.8 million enterprises (mostly smes) and 5.2% of the workforce, is one of the engines of growth in the union. the european travel and tourism sector, including related areas, generates around 10% of the union's gdp. however, the tourism market has undergone significant development since the adoption of directive 90/314/eec. the internet has become an increasingly important intermediary in the provision of travel services. many of the services thus offered fall within the grey area of the law or simply outside the scope of directive 90/314/eec. this has necessitated the modernisation of directive 90/314/eec in order to adapt the legal framework to market developments, to filter out ambiguous provisions and to close loopholes. to this end, the commission has proposed the adoption of a directive of the european parliament and of the council. the european parliament adopted its position on this proposal at first reading. in this context, the committee on the internal market and consumer protection proposed that the ep should support the council's position at first reading at second reading. i voted on the bill accordingly.
in writing. ‒ i agree with the council's motion for a resolution and therefore did not support the effd proposal which sought to reject it.
i of course agree and welcome the fact that roaming charges will be abolished from 2017 and that this is what the european parliament has decided. even the most hardline eu sceptics are obviously happy about this, and they agree that there are of course decisions that need to be made at european level to make life easier and better for the people of europe. what we do not agree with is what the rapporteur said in his comment that the european union is so wonderful because it was necessary to abolish roaming charges. we don't think that the increasingly dictatorial, increasingly centralized, and increasingly sovereign european union of nation states is necessary to abolish roaming charges. why can't we do this in a much looser bond or in a cooperative form, and many other similar decisions.
in writing. ‒ roaming charges have been used in recent years as a tax on the free movement of persons, as a kind of extra profit, and the european parliament has been calling for their abolition for years. the european parliament has helped citizens and businesses doing business across borders by introducing price caps since 2007, and now it will finally be possible for citizens of the european union to talk to each other at domestic rates from 15 june 2017 at the latest. the abolition of roaming charges, the elimination of the tax on the free movement of people, is the first step towards the creation of a common europe! today's decision by parliament also addresses the issue of net neutrality. in this context, operators will be obliged to treat all traffic equally and will be prohibited from blocking or slowing down the transmission speed of different services. in addition, it will be possible to sell special services that guarantee high-quality internet access, but not at the expense of the basic internet service. internet access gives smes a level playing field across the eu. as a member of the hungarian people's party delegation, i voted in favour of the council's position at first reading, which may lead to the abolition of roaming charges.
in writing. ‒ roaming charges have been used in recent years as a tax on the free movement of persons, as a kind of extra profit, and the european parliament has been calling for their abolition for years. the european parliament has helped citizens and businesses doing business across borders by introducing price caps since 2007, and now it will finally be possible for citizens of the european union to talk to each other at domestic rates from 15 june 2017 at the latest. today's decision by parliament also addresses the issue of net neutrality. in this context, operators will be obliged to treat all traffic equally and will be prohibited from blocking or slowing down the transmission speed of different services. in addition, it will be possible to sell special services that guarantee high-quality internet access, but not at the expense of the basic internet service. as a member of the hungarian people's party delegation, i voted in favour of the council's position at first reading, which may lead to the abolition of roaming charges.
in writing. roaming charges have in recent years acted as a tax on the free movement of persons, as a kind of extra profit, and the european parliament has therefore been calling for their abolition for years. the european parliament has helped citizens and businesses doing business across borders by introducing price caps since 2007, and now it will finally be possible for citizens of the european union to talk to each other at domestic rates from 15 june 2017 at the latest. today's decision by parliament also addresses the issue of net neutrality. in this context, operators will be obliged to treat all traffic equally and will be prohibited from blocking or slowing down the transmission speed of different services. in addition, it will be possible to sell special services that guarantee high-quality internet access, but not at the expense of the basic internet service. as a member of the hungarian people's party delegation, i voted in favour of the council's position at first reading, which may lead to the abolition of roaming charges.
in writing. ‒ roaming charges have been used in recent years as a tax on the free movement of persons, as a kind of extra profit, and the european parliament has been calling for their abolition for years. the european parliament has helped citizens and businesses doing business across borders by introducing price caps since 2007, and now it will finally be possible for citizens of the european union to talk to each other at domestic rates from 15 june 2017 at the latest. today's decision by parliament also addresses the issue of net neutrality. in this context, operators will be obliged to treat all traffic equally and will be prohibited from blocking or slowing down the transmission speed of different services. in addition, it will be possible to sell special services that guarantee high-quality internet access, but not at the expense of the basic internet service. as a member of the hungarian people's party delegation, i voted in favour of the council's position at first reading, which may lead to the abolition of roaming charges.
in writing. ‒ roaming charges have been used in recent years as a tax on the free movement of persons, as a kind of extra profit, and the european parliament has been calling for their abolition for years. the european parliament has helped citizens and businesses doing business across borders by introducing price caps since 2007, and now it will finally be possible for citizens of the european union to talk to each other at domestic rates from 15 june 2017 at the latest. today's decision by parliament also addresses the issue of net neutrality. in this context, operators will be obliged to treat all traffic equally and will be prohibited from blocking or slowing down the transmission speed of different services. in addition, it will allow the sale of special services that guarantee high-quality internet access, but not at the expense of the basic internet service. as a member of the hungarian people's party delegation, i voted in favour of the council's position at first reading, which may lead to the abolition of roaming charges.
in writing. ‒ in recent years, roaming charges have acted as a tax on the free movement of persons, as an extra profit. the european parliament has therefore been calling for their abolition for years. since 2007, the ep has helped citizens and businesses doing business across borders by introducing price caps. now, at last, it will be possible for citizens of the european union to talk to each other at domestic rates from 15 june 2017 at the latest. today's decision by parliament also addresses the issue of net neutrality. in this context, operators will be obliged to treat all traffic equally and will be prohibited from blocking or slowing down the transmission speed of different services. it will also allow the sale of special services guaranteeing high-quality internet access. however, this cannot be at the expense of the fund's internet service. as a member of the hungarian people's party delegation, i voted in favour of the council's position at first reading, which may lead to the abolition of roaming charges.
in writing. ‒ the european commission has proposed the adoption of a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on harmonised rules to ensure open internet access, protect users' rights and eliminate roaming charges. the positions of parliament and the council at first reading differed significantly and a trilogue was therefore held as from 23 march 2015. the commission considers that the commission's assessment of the compatibility of the aid with the internal market is based on the facts available. the european council, which brings together the governments of the member states, is threatening the democratic, community-based nature of the internet with this proposal and is delaying by two years the abolition of roaming charges, which make international calls and internet use more expensive. the proposal allows internet service providers to arbitrarily restrict certain services, differentiating between subscribers. it threatens the democracy of the internet and can be detrimental to innovation. that is why i voted against the proposal and will vote against it in the future if a proposal is directed against digital development and the democratic nature of the internet.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the amendments to the report which clearly contributed to ensuring net neutrality without compromise, as this is a fundamental interest of all european citizens. any decision that faces this challenge will put digital development and thus european competitiveness at risk. therefore, i cannot support any proposals or ideas that go against this principle.
in writing. ‒ roaming charges have been used in recent years as a tax on the free movement of persons, as a kind of extra profit, and the european parliament has been calling for their abolition for years. the european parliament has helped citizens and businesses doing business across borders by introducing price caps since 2007, and now it will finally be possible for citizens of the european union to talk to each other at domestic rates from 15 june 2017 at the latest. today's decision in parliament also addresses the issue of net neutrality. in this context, operators will be obliged to treat all traffic equally and will be prohibited from blocking or slowing down the transmission speed of different services. in addition, it will be possible to sell special services that guarantee high-quality internet access, but not at the expense of the basic internet service. as a member of the hungarian people's party delegation, i voted in favour of the council's position at first reading, which may lead to the abolition of roaming charges.
in writing. ‒ although significantly delayed, slipping away from the original proposal and leaving some loopholes, the intention expressed earlier was to reduce the undue roaming burden on european consumers as soon as possible. that's why i supported his acceptance. however, as regards the issue of internet neutrality, which was discussed in the common package by the abolition of roaming charges, i did not support the submitted draft legislation, as in my view it restricts the open and free use of the internet and may also reduce the opportunities for hungarian start-up companies to develop.
the member states of the european union should not be allowed to transport goods or objects to third countries which could be used to carry out capital punishment or torture or inhuman or cruel treatment. i like this report and the message it conveys. especially if we think that the death penalty is a violation of the right to life, torture is a violation of the right to human dignity. but these same fundamental rights are violated by wars, and especially by unjust proxy wars, which european citizens have nothing to do with, or would have nothing to do with. and in which people are being killed in droves, civilians, women, children, etc. i wonder why there are no bans or clarifications on the conditions and strictly regulated circumstances under which arms and other war material can be exported from the member states of the european union.
in writing. ‒ the european commission, with this legislative proposal, has confirmed the earlier decision of the european parliament of 17 june 2010 concerning the amendment of the 'anti-torture good regulation' ec/1236/2005. the european people's party welcomes the amendment proposal, as it is important to regulate and condition the trade in goods that can be used for torture and the execution of the death penalty. customs authorities should be able to take effective action against market actors who are in breach of the rules. at the same time, it is necessary to ensure that these restrictions do not impede legitimate trade in such 'dual-use' goods. it is very important to strike a balance between the legitimate interests of the operators concerned and the restrictions contained in the proposal.
in writing. the european commission, by this legislative proposal, has confirmed the earlier decision of the european parliament of 17 june 2010 amending council regulation (ec) no 1236/2005 on trade in certain goods liable to be used for capital punishment, torture or other cruel, inhuman or degrading treatment or punishment. the european people's party welcomes the amendment proposal, as it is important to regulate and condition the trade in goods that can be used for torture and the execution of the death penalty. customs authorities should be able to take effective action against market actors who are in breach of the rules. at the same time, we must ensure that these restrictions do not impede legitimate trade in such dual-use goods. it is very important to strike a balance between the legitimate interests of the operators concerned and the restrictions contained in the proposal.
in writing. ‒ the european commission, with this legislative proposal, has confirmed the earlier decision of the european parliament of 17 june 2010 amending regulation (ec) no 1236/2005 anti-torture good regulation. the european people's party welcomes the amendment proposal, as it is important to regulate and condition the trade in goods that can be used for torture and the execution of the death penalty. customs authorities should be able to take effective action against market actors who are in breach of the rules. at the same time, it is necessary to ensure that these restrictions do not impede legitimate trade in such dual-use goods. it is very important to strike a balance between the legitimate interests of the operators concerned and the restrictions contained in the proposal.
in writing. ‒ the european commission, with this legislative proposal, has confirmed the earlier decision of the european parliament of 17 june 2010 amending council regulation (ec) no 1236/2005 on trade in certain goods liable to be used for capital punishment, torture or other cruel, inhuman or degrading treatment or punishment. the european people's party welcomes the amendment proposal, as it is important to regulate and condition the trade in goods that can be used for torture and the execution of the death penalty. customs authorities should be able to take effective action against market actors who are in breach of the rules. at the same time, we must ensure that these restrictions do not impede legitimate trade in such dual-use goods. it is very important to strike a balance between the legitimate interests of the operators concerned and the restrictions contained in the proposal.
in writing. ‒ the european commission, with this legislative proposal, has confirmed the earlier decision of the european parliament of 17 june 2010 amending regulation (ec) no 1236/2005 on trade in goods liable to be used for the purpose of capital punishment, torture or other cruel, inhuman or degrading treatment or punishment. the european people's party welcomes the amendment proposal, as it is important to regulate and condition the trade in goods that can be used for torture and the execution of the death penalty. the work of customs authorities should be supported in order to enable them to deal effectively with infringing market players. at the same time, we must ensure that these restrictions do not impede legitimate trade in dual-use goods. it is very important to strike a balance between the legitimate interests of the operators concerned and the restrictions contained in the proposal.
in writing. ‒ as a representative of the european people's party, i welcome the report. it is important that we regulate and condition the trade in goods that can be used for torture and the execution of the death penalty. customs authorities should be able to take effective action against market actors who are in breach of the rules. at the same time, we must ensure that these restrictions do not impede legitimate trade in dual-use goods. it is very important to strike a balance between the legitimate interests of the operators concerned and the restrictions contained in the proposal.
in writing. ‒ the european commission has proposed the adoption of a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending council regulation (ec) no 1236/2005 on trade in certain goods liable to be used for capital punishment, torture or other cruel, inhuman or degrading treatment or punishment. regulation (ec) no 1236/2005 on combating torture contributes to the global eradication of the death penalty and torture by introducing a ban on equipment and related technical assistance which can be used exclusively for torture and the execution of the death penalty, and by establishing a licensing system for products which, if misused, are suitable for torture and execution. the review of the union's control over the trade in instruments of torture has long been timely. the commission now proposes to strengthen the control of instruments suitable for torture. i fully agree with the aims of the motion and therefore voted in favour of it.
in writing. ‒ the european commission, by this legislative proposal, has confirmed the earlier decision of the european parliament of 17 june 2010 amending the anti-torture good regulation ec/1236/2005. the european people's party welcomes the amendment proposal, as it is important to regulate and condition the trade in goods that can be used for torture and the execution of the death penalty. customs authorities should be able to take effective action against market actors who are in breach of the rules. at the same time, we must ensure that these restrictions do not impede legitimate trade in such dual-use goods. it is very important to strike a balance between the legitimate interests of the operators concerned and the restrictions contained in the proposal.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution, which, following several years of preparation, will allow the european parliament to modernise the nearly decade-old legislation, as it has already stated. i consider it important that the commission proposal updates the annex containing the list of dual-use items and authorizations for placing on the market, in addition to the annex containing prohibited articles for exclusive use (only for torture or execution), taking into account new pharmaceutical devices and substances. the inclusion of the targeted end-user clause is an equally important means of control. in general, i am reassured that the modernisation of the legislation places the right emphasis on the aspects of effective control, regular review of inventories and procedures and more efficient exchange of information, all without unduly disrupting or obstructing the normal flow of trade. overall, i believe that my vote and this resolution of the european parliament have contributed to the european union's continued role as an international leader in global efforts to reduce the use of the death penalty and to eradicate the practice of torture.
in writing. ‒ eu-wide export controls are a tool of external trade policy that serve broader policy objectives. regulation (ec) no 1236/2005 on the fight against torture is a unique instrument that contributes to the protection of human rights by controlling products and activities that may be used in the context of the death penalty, torture or other cruel, inhuman or degrading treatment or punishment. the torture regulation contributes to the global abolition of the death penalty and torture, which is a long-standing eu objective. it shall contribute to the achievement of those objectives by combining prohibitions with the requirements for authorisation of trade in the listed products. it introduces a ban on equipment and related technical assistance intended solely for torture and the execution of the death penalty and a licensing system for products which, if misused, are suitable for torture and execution by lethal injection. i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. following the luxleaks scandal, the european parliament, through this report, expresses its determination to not tolerate tax fraud and tax evasion and to stand up for a fair distribution of the tax burden between citizens and companies, with which i fully agree. in its previous resolution, the european parliament stressed that the union should take a leading role in the fight against tax fraud, tax evasion and tax havens. one of the most effective ways of doing this is to improve the exchange of information, in particular on member states' conditional tax rulings.
in writing. ‒ the european commission has proposed to the council to amend directive 2011/16/eu on administrative cooperation, as amended by directive 2014/107/eu, with regard to the mandatory automatic exchange of information in the field of taxation. the proposal would add a new article to the current directive, which defines the scope and conditions for the mandatory automatic sharing of information on certain types of cross-border conditional tax rulings and transfer pricing arrangements. this obligation extends to decisions issued in the 10 years preceding the entry into force of the proposed directive and still in force at the time of its entry into force. the council is required by the treaty on the functioning of the european union to consult the european parliament before taking a decision. in its report, parliament's committee on economic and monetary affairs recommends that the commission's proposal be approved with a number of amendments. i supported the motion accordingly.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the adoption of the report, which contributes to the smooth and continuous operation of the mandatory automatic exchange of information in the field of taxation. i welcome the amendment to the report which states that the european parliament does not tolerate tax evasion and avoidance and that it is in favour of a fair distribution of the tax burden between citizens and businesses. i also agree with the amendment that targeted and effective sanctions should be developed for failure by member states to share conditional tax rulings and rulings or agreements on advance pricing arrangements. this is the only way to ensure transparency, which is a prerequisite for increasing legal certainty and tax fairness and stimulating the development of smes, investment and innovation. the commission notes that the contested tax ruling does not provide for any advantage to luxopco in the form of a tax credit for luxopco. we expect the automatic exchange of information on conditional tax rulings within the eu to put an end to illegitimate practices by individual member states and contribute to the establishment of a stable tax system.
in writing. ‒ the problem of crossborder tax avoidance, aggressive tax planning and harmful tax competition has emerged as a growing challenge in recent years and has become a priority in the european union and worldwide. in its resolution of 21 may 2013, the european parliament stressed the need for the union to take a leading role in the global discussions on the fight against tax fraud, tax evasion and tax havens, in particular by promoting the exchange of information. under the current legal framework, member states share very little information with each other regarding their conditional tax rulings. the draft directive adds a new article to the current directive, which defines the scope and conditions for the mandatory automatic sharing of information on certain types of cross-border conditional tax rulings and transfer pricing arrangements. i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ on 22 september 2015, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control voted on the second discharge report of the institutions which were not discharged under the ordinary closure procedure, the committee decided to grant the discharge to the artemis joint undertaking. the joint undertaking has, in the opinion of the panel, addressed the issues identified in the first exemption report in a meaningful manner, strengthened the application of conflict of interest rules and transparency, and reviewed its internal control systems. thanks to that, the panel decided to grant the discharge, to close the accounts. i also supported the granting of the artemis joint undertaking exemption in the european parliament's plenary session.
in writing. on 22 september 2015, the committee on budgetary control of the european parliament voted on the second discharge report of the institutions which were not discharged under the ordinary closure procedure, the committee decided to grant the discharge to the artemis joint undertaking. the joint undertaking has, in the opinion of the panel, addressed the issues identified in the first exemption report in a meaningful manner, strengthened the application of conflict of interest rules and transparency, and reviewed its internal control systems. thanks to that, the panel decided to grant the discharge, to close the accounts. i also supported the granting of the artemis joint undertaking exemption in the european parliament's plenary session.
in writing. ‒ on 22 september 2015, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control voted on the second discharge report of the institutions which were not discharged under the ordinary closure procedure, the committee decided to grant the discharge to the artemis joint undertaking. the joint undertaking has, in the opinion of the panel, addressed the issues identified in the first exemption report in a meaningful manner, strengthened the application of conflict of interest rules and transparency, and reviewed its internal control systems. thanks to that, the panel decided to grant the discharge, to close the accounts. i also supported the granting of the artemis joint undertaking exemption in the european parliament's plenary session.
in writing. ‒ the european parliament's committee on budgetary control voted on 22 september 2015 on the second discharge report for the institutions that did not receive discharge in the ordinary clearance of accounts procedure. the specialist committee has decided to grant the artemis joint undertaking a waiver. the joint undertaking has, in the opinion of the panel, addressed the issues identified in the first exemption report in a meaningful manner, strengthened the application of conflict of interest rules and transparency, and reviewed its internal control systems. as a result, the specialist committee decided to grant the exemption and to close the accounts. i also supported the granting of the artemis joint undertaking exemption in the european parliament's plenary session.
in writing. ‒ the european parliament's committee on budgetary control voted on 22 september 2015 on the second discharge report for the institutions that did not receive discharge in the ordinary clearance of accounts procedure. the specialist committee has decided to grant the artemis joint undertaking a waiver. the joint undertaking has, in the opinion of the panel, addressed the issues identified in the first exemption report in a meaningful manner, strengthened the application of conflict of interest rules and transparency, and reviewed its internal control systems. thanks to that, the panel decided to grant the discharge, to close the accounts. i also supported the granting of the artemis joint undertaking exemption in the european parliament's plenary session.
in writing. ‒ the eu budget supports the implementation of a number of policies and programmes. the commission shall provide technical assistance to these specialised agencies for the implementation of programmes, activities and projects identified by the commission in accordance with the priorities set by the european parliament and the council in the multiannual financial framework. the artemis joint undertaking, established in brussels, was established by council regulation (ec) no 74/2008 in 2007 for a period of 10 years. the main objective is to implement the joint technology initiative on embedded computing systems. the artemis joint undertaking has submitted its final annual accounts for the financial year 2013. the european court of auditors has certified the accounts for the financial year 2013 as being reliable and the underlying transactions as being legal and regular. in its recommendation of 17 february 2015, the council endorsed the discharge to be given to the joint undertaking in respect of the implementation of the budget for the financial year 2013. parliament's committee on budgetary control has recommended that parliament be given a discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the artemis joint undertaking for the financial year 2013. i supported the motion accordingly.
in writing. ‒ the court of auditors is of the opinion that the annual accounts of the joint undertaking for the year 2013 present, in all material respects, the financial position as at 31 december 2013 and the results of the financial and cash flow events up to the end of the year, in accordance with the provisions of the joint undertaking's financial rules. that's why i supported the report.
in writing. ‒ on 22 september 2015, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control voted on the second discharge report of the institutions which were not discharged under the ordinary closure procedure, the committee decided to grant discharge to the european institute of innovation and technology. the eu agency has, according to the assessment of the panel, addressed the problems identified in the first discharge report in a meaningful way, reviewed its procurement procedures and has already implemented 18 of the 25 action plans. thanks to that, the panel decided to grant the discharge, to close the accounts. i also supported the granting of the eit discharge at the european parliament plenary.
in writing. on 22 september 2015, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control voted on the second discharge report of the institutions which were not discharged under the ordinary closure procedure, the committee decided to grant discharge to the european institute of innovation and technology. the eu agency has, according to the assessment of the panel, addressed the problems identified in the first discharge report in a meaningful way, reviewed its procurement procedures and has already implemented 18 of the 25 action plans. thanks to that, the panel decided to grant the discharge, to close the accounts. i also supported the granting of the eit discharge at the european parliament plenary.
in writing. ‒ on 22 september 2015, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control voted on the second discharge report of the institutions which were not discharged under the ordinary closure procedure, the committee decided to grant discharge to the european institute of innovation and technology. the eu agency has, according to the assessment of the panel, addressed the problems identified in the first discharge report in a meaningful way, reviewed its procurement procedures and has already implemented 18 of the 25 action plans. thanks to that, the panel decided to grant the discharge, to close the accounts. i also supported the granting of the eit discharge at the european parliament plenary.
in writing. ‒ the european parliament's committee on budgetary control voted on 22 september 2015 on the second discharge report for the institutions that did not receive discharge in the ordinary clearance of accounts procedure. the commission has decided to grant a discharge to the european institute of innovation and technology. the union agency was assessed by the panel to have addressed the problems identified in the first discharge report, to have reviewed its procurement procedures and to have implemented 18 of the 25 action plans. as a result, the specialist committee decided to grant the exemption and to close the accounts. i also supported the granting of the eit discharge at the european parliament plenary.
in writing. ‒ the european parliament's committee on budgetary control voted on 22 september 2015 on the second discharge report for the institutions that did not receive discharge in the ordinary clearance of accounts procedure. the commission has decided to grant a discharge to the european institute of innovation and technology. the eu agency has, according to the assessment of the panel, addressed the problems identified in the first discharge report in a meaningful way, reviewed its procurement procedures and has already implemented 18 of the 25 action plans. thanks to that, the panel decided to grant the discharge, to close the accounts. i also supported the granting of the eit discharge at the european parliament plenary.
in writing. the report underlines that, starting with the 2014 grant contracts, the institute will use the same audit methodology as all other horizon 2020 programmes. the use of a more detailed and consistent verification methodology further improved the standard achieved in prior checks. the report is acceptable having regard to the statement of assurance as to the reliability of the accounts and the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions provided by the court of auditors for the financial year 2013.
in writing. ‒ the eu budget supports the implementation of a number of policies and programmes. the commission shall provide technical assistance to these specialised agencies for the implementation of programmes, activities and projects identified by the commission in accordance with the priorities set by the european parliament and the council in the multiannual financial framework. the eit, based in budapest, was established by regulation (ec) no 294/2008 of the european parliament and of the council. the aim of the institute is to contribute to sustainable european economic growth and to improve european competitiveness by enhancing the innovation capacity of the member states and the eu. the eit has submitted its final annual accounts for the financial year 2013. the european court of auditors has certified the accounts for the financial year 2013 as being reliable and the underlying transactions as being legal and regular. in its recommendation of 17 february 2015, the council endorsed a discharge to be given to the institute in respect of the implementation of the budget for the financial year 2013. parliament's committee on budgetary control has recommended that parliament be given a discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the eit for the financial year 2013. i supported the motion accordingly.
in writing. ‒ i supported the adoption of the report and the granting of the 2013 discharge, in the hope that the european institute of innovation and technology (budapest, hungary), which plays an important role in the future economic and scientific development of europe, will continue to operate smoothly, in transparent and efficient conditions, including from the budgetary point of view. i noted that the management of the eit reportedly effectively addressed the shortcomings previously identified by the european court of auditors and that the corrections have improved the efficiency and transparency of the management and administrative management over the past year. the report shows that significant improvements have been made in the institute's procurement policy, financial management has been tightened and more targeted human resources and staff management has reduced excessive staff turnover. thus, taking into account the reinforcement of internal control, there is reason to expect that the above-mentioned expectations regarding the management of the eit will be met with a spillover effect for the current financial year.
in writing. ‒ having regard to the council recommendation on discharge to be given to the european institute of innovation and technology in respect of the implementation of the budget for the financial year 2013, and to the replies from the director of the european institute of innovation and technology, i have endorsed the report.
in writing. ‒ on 22 september 2015, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control voted on the second discharge report of the institutions that were not discharged under the ordinary closure procedure, the committee decided to grant discharge to the eniac joint undertaking. the joint undertaking has in fact addressed the issues identified in the first exemption report in a meaningful manner, as assessed by the panel, and has confirmed the application of the conflict of interest rules. thanks to that, the panel decided to grant the discharge, to close the accounts. i also supported the granting of the discharge to the eniac joint undertaking in the european parliament's plenary session.
in writing. on 22 september 2015, the committee on budgetary control of the european parliament voted on the second discharge report of the institutions which were not discharged under the normal closure procedure, the committee decided to grant discharge to the eniac joint undertaking. the joint undertaking has in fact addressed the issues identified in the first exemption report in a meaningful manner, as assessed by the panel, and has confirmed the application of the conflict of interest rules. thanks to that, the panel decided to grant the discharge, to close the accounts. i also supported the granting of the discharge to the eniac joint undertaking in the european parliament's plenary session.
in writing. ‒ on 22 september 2015, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control voted on the second discharge report of the institutions that were not discharged under the ordinary closure procedure, the committee decided to grant discharge to the eniac joint undertaking. the joint undertaking has in fact addressed the issues identified in the first exemption report in a meaningful manner, as assessed by the panel, and has confirmed the application of the conflict of interest rules. thanks to that, the panel decided to grant the discharge, to close the accounts. i also supported the granting of the discharge to the eniac joint undertaking in the european parliament's plenary session.
in writing. ‒ the european parliament's committee on budgetary control voted on 22 september 2015 on the second discharge report for the institutions that did not receive discharge in the ordinary clearance of accounts procedure. the panel decided to grant the eniac joint undertaking a waiver. the joint undertaking has in fact addressed the issues identified in the first exemption report in a meaningful manner, as assessed by the panel, and has confirmed the application of the conflict of interest rules. as a result, the specialist committee decided to grant the exemption and to close the accounts. i also supported the granting of the discharge to the eniac joint undertaking in the european parliament's plenary session.
in writing. ‒ the european parliament's committee on budgetary control voted on 22 september 2015 on the second discharge report for the institutions that did not receive discharge in the ordinary clearance of accounts procedure. the panel decided to grant the eniac joint undertaking a waiver. the joint undertaking has in fact addressed the issues identified in the first exemption report in a meaningful manner, as assessed by the panel, and has confirmed the application of the conflict of interest rules. thanks to that, the panel decided to grant the discharge, to close the accounts. i also supported the granting of the discharge to the eniac joint undertaking in the european parliament's plenary session.
in writing. ‒ the eu budget supports the implementation of a number of policies and programmes. the commission shall provide technical assistance to these specialised agencies for the implementation of programmes, activities and projects identified by the commission in accordance with the priorities set by the european parliament and the council in the multiannual financial framework. the eniac joint undertaking, established by council regulation (ec) no 72/2008 and based in brussels, was set up for a period of 10 years. the main objective is to develop and implement a generally accepted research plan in the field of nanoelectronics. to this end, it raises funds from the public and private sectors, which it uses to support r&d projects. the eniac joint undertaking has submitted its final annual accounts for the financial year 2013. the european court of auditors has certified the accounts for the financial year 2013 as being reliable and the underlying transactions as being legal and regular. in its recommendation of 17 february 2015, the council endorsed the discharge to be given to the joint undertaking in respect of the implementation of the budget for the financial year 2013. parliament's committee on budgetary control has recommended that parliament be given a discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the eniac joint undertaking for the financial year 2013. i supported the motion accordingly.
in writing. ‒ the court of auditors is of the opinion that the annual accounts of the joint undertaking for the year 2013 reflect, in all material respects, the financial position as at 31 december 2013 and the results of the economic and financial transactions until the end of the year, in accordance with the provisions of the joint undertaking's financial regulation and the accounting rules adopted by the commission's accounting officer. that's why i supported the report.
in writing. ‒ the report briefly states that the council's request for discharge for 2013 will not be granted by parliament. since 2009, the council has submitted a request for discharge to parliament every year, which parliament has consistently refused to grant. the reason for this is that parliament is not convinced that the council is operating in a transparent manner, and has not answered a number of questions, for example on property purchases and property developments. i agreed to the dismissal of the discharge request, so i voted yes.
in writing. ‒ the european parliament's committee on budgetary control voted on 22 september 2015 on the second discharge report for the institutions that did not receive discharge in the ordinary clearance of accounts procedure. the committee decided to reject the council's discharge, as the european council has not cooperated with the european parliament's committee on budgetary control in the discharge procedure for many years. it does not give parliament access to certain documents necessary for the final report and does not answer questions sent to it. i therefore voted in favour of the rejection of the council's discharge in the plenary vote, approving the proposal of the committee.
in writing. ‒ the european parliament's committee on budgetary control voted on 22 september 2015 on the second discharge report of the institutions which were not discharged under the ordinary closure procedure, the committee decided to reject the discharge of the council. the european council has not cooperated with the european parliament's committee on budgetary control in the discharge procedure for many years. it does not give parliament access to certain documents necessary for the final report and does not answer questions sent to it. i therefore voted in favour of the rejection of the council's discharge in the plenary vote, approving the proposal of the committee.
in writing. ‒ the european parliament's committee on budgetary control voted on 22 september 2015 on the second discharge report for the institutions that did not receive discharge in the ordinary clearance of accounts procedure. the committee decided to reject the council's discharge, as the european council has not cooperated with the european parliament's committee on budgetary control in the discharge procedure for many years. it does not give parliament access to certain documents necessary for the final report and does not answer questions sent to it. i therefore voted in favour of the rejection of the council's discharge in the plenary vote, approving the proposal of the committee.
in writing. ‒ the european parliament's committee on budgetary control voted on 22 september 2015 on the second discharge report for the institutions that did not receive discharge in the ordinary clearance of accounts procedure. the committee decided to reject the council's discharge. the european council has not cooperated with the european parliament's committee on budgetary control in the discharge procedure for many years. it does not give parliament access to certain documents necessary for the final report and does not answer questions sent to it. i therefore voted in favour of the rejection of the council's discharge in the plenary vote, approving the proposal of the committee.
in writing. ‒ in connection with the consolidated annual accounts of the european union for the financial year 2013, the european court of auditors has presented its annual report on the implementation of the budget for the financial year 2013 and has issued a statement of assurance as to the reliability of the accounts and the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions for the financial year 2013. in its second report, parliament's committee on budgetary control proposed that parliament should refuse to grant the secretary-general of the council discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european council and of the council for the financial year 2013. i voted accordingly.
in writing. ‒ since all eu institutions must be transparent and accountable to european citizens for the funds entrusted to them as eu institutions, i supported the report, agreeing with the recommendations made in this regard.
in writing. ‒ the report analyses the antecedents and consequences of the epidemic in the three affected west african countries where the ebola virus has caused a severe humanitarian crisis. it is important to support the reform and structuring of the health systems of the three countries at both international and global levels. i do not think that the european union alone should solve this problem by allocating more money from the common budget to finance the health infrastructure, the training and education of staff and the salaries of these countries. at the same time, it is important to point out the heavy responsibility of the imf and the world bank, since the loan facilities to help these countries were an important condition for keeping health expenditure and structural development to a minimum. it is time for these organizations to provide real support for the construction of health systems. i supported the adoption of the report, also in view of the amendments adopted.
in writing. ‒ in march 2014, the largest ebola outbreak to date occurred in sierra leone, liberia and guinea. this report is based on experience gained during the crisis. the ebola crisis posed a major challenge to the three countries mentioned above, as they were ill-prepared to deal with the situation due to the shortcomings of their health and education systems. this was a huge challenge for the international community and for the europeans who were involved in the crisis. the report concludes that no further emergency aid is needed, but that the eu should continue to work to improve the organisation and resilience of health systems. it is necessary to lay down the conditions for a permanent european system with the appropriate physical and human resources for rapid response. the report highlights that investments in health promote economic development and are thus an important factor in poverty eradication. the report calls on member states to contribute to the creation of a universal health fund (uhc) and to support the marshall plan, which can give a powerful boost to the development of countries in need. the report also hopes that the european development fund will also support the health system of countries with fragile infrastructure with its investments. in accordance with the above objectives, and following the line of the people's party, i voted in favour of the adoption of the report.
in writing. in march 2014, the largest ebola outbreak to date occurred in sierra leone, liberia and guinea. this report is based on experience gained during the crisis. the ebola crisis posed a major challenge to the three countries mentioned above, as their health and education systems were ill-equipped to deal with the situation. this was a huge challenge for the international community and for the european countries that were involved in the crisis. the report concludes that no further emergency aid is needed, but that the eu should continue to work to improve the organisation and resilience of health systems. it is necessary to lay down the conditions for a permanent european system with the appropriate physical and human resources for rapid response. the report highlights that investments in health promote economic development and are thus an important factor in poverty eradication. the report calls on member states to contribute to the creation of a universal health fund (uhc) and to support the marshall plan, which can give a powerful boost to the development of countries in need. the report also hopes that the european development fund will also support health systems in countries with fragile infrastructure through its investments. in accordance with the above objectives, and following the line of the people's party, i voted in favour of the adoption of the report.
in writing. ‒ in march 2014, the largest ebola outbreak to date occurred in sierra leone, liberia and guinea. this report is based on experience gained during the crisis. the ebola crisis posed a major challenge to the three countries mentioned above, as they were ill-prepared to deal with the situation due to the shortcomings of their health and education systems. this was a huge challenge for the international community and for the europeans who were involved in the crisis. the report concludes that no further emergency aid is needed, but that the eu should continue to work to improve the organisation and resilience of health systems. it is necessary to lay down the conditions for a permanent european system with the appropriate physical and human resources for rapid response. the report highlights that investments in health promote economic development and are thus an important factor in poverty eradication. the report calls on member states to contribute to the creation of a universal health fund (uhc) and to support the marshall plan, which can give a powerful boost to the development of countries in need. the report also hopes that the european development fund will also support the health system of countries with fragile infrastructure with its investments. in accordance with the above objectives, and following the line of the people's party, i voted in favour of the adoption of the report.
in writing. ‒ in march 2014, the largest ebola outbreak to date occurred in sierra leone, liberia and guinea. this report is based on experience gained during the crisis. the ebola crisis posed a major challenge to the three countries mentioned above, as their health and education systems were ill-equipped to deal with the situation. this was a huge challenge for the international community and for the european countries that were involved in the crisis. the report concludes that no further emergency aid is needed, but that the eu should continue to work to improve the organisation and resilience of health systems. it is necessary to lay down the conditions for a permanent european system with the appropriate physical and human resources for rapid response. the report highlights that investments in health promote economic development and are thus an important factor in poverty eradication. the report calls on member states to contribute to the creation of a universal health fund (uhc) and to support the marshall plan, which can give a powerful boost to the development of countries in need. the report also hopes that the european development fund will also support health systems in countries with fragile infrastructure through its investments. in accordance with the above objectives, and following the line of the people's party, i voted in favour of the adoption of the report.
in writing. ‒ in march 2014, the largest ebola outbreak to date occurred in sierra leone, liberia and guinea. the report is based on experience gained during the crisis. the ebola crisis posed a major challenge to the three countries mentioned above, as their health and education systems were ill-equipped to deal with the situation. this was a huge challenge for the international community and for the europeans who were involved in the crisis. the report concludes that there is no need for additional emergency preparedness, but that the eu should strive to improve the organisation and resilience of health systems in the future. the conditions for a permanent european system with adequate material and human resources should be established in case of a need for rapid response. the report highlights that investments in health promote economic development and thus play an important role in poverty eradication. the report calls on member states to contribute to the creation of a universal health fund (uhc) and to support the marshall plan, which could provide a powerful boost to countries in need. the report also hopes that the european development fund will also support health systems in countries with fragile infrastructure through its investments. in accordance with the above objectives, and following the line of the people's party, i voted in favour of the adoption of the report.
in writing. ‒ in march 2014, the largest ebola crisis to date occurred in sierra leone, liberia and guinea. this report is based on experience gained during the crisis. the ebola crisis posed a major challenge to the three countries mentioned above, as they were ill-prepared to deal with the situation due to the shortcomings of their health and education systems. this was a huge challenge for the international community and for the europeans who were involved in the crisis. the document states that no further emergency aid is needed, but that the eu should work to improve the organisation and resilience of health systems in the future. it is necessary to lay down the conditions for a permanent european system with the material and human resources necessary for rapid response. the report highlights that investments in health promote economic development and can therefore be an important factor in poverty eradication. the document calls on member states to contribute to the creation of a so-called global health fund and to support the marshall plan, which can give a powerful boost to the development of countries in need. in accordance with the above objectives, and following the line of the people's party, i voted in favour of the adoption of the report.
in writing. i supported the report, whose key elements are the inadequate response of the international community, the shocking effects of border closures and restrictions on the population, the ineffectiveness of monitoring and alert mechanisms, the slow and inadequate response after the final mobilisation of support, the complete lack of leadership by who, and the partial lack of research and development for medicines, diagnostics and vaccines. many of us have the impression that it's only because of providence that it hasn't become a global pandemic yet.
in writing. ‒ the development committee report summarises the lessons learned from the worst ebola outbreak in world history, which has devastated sierra leone, liberia and guinea since march 2014. it underlines that the european union, as the world's most important actor for development, has a special responsibility to promote the universal right of access to healthcare. it expects the union to act more vigorously than the other actors. it takes the view that the union should lead the way in research, innovation, the establishment of a framework for emergency tasks, the deployment of medical personnel, the establishment of an evacuation system and longer-term efforts in the field of development cooperation. it considers that for the post-pandemic period, the union should focus its efforts on two areas: development aid, including through investment in health infrastructure, and support for economic recovery in the three countries. i supported the adoption of the report.
in writing. ‒ in march 2014, the largest ebola outbreak to date occurred in sierra leone, liberia and guinea. this report is based on experience gained during the crisis. the ebola crisis posed a major challenge to the three countries mentioned above, as they were ill-prepared to deal with the situation due to the shortcomings of their health and education systems. this was a huge challenge for the international community and for the europeans who were involved in the crisis. the report concludes that no further emergency aid is needed, but that the eu should continue to work to improve the organisation and resilience of health systems. it is necessary to lay down the conditions for a permanent european system with the appropriate physical and human resources for rapid response. the report highlights that investments in health promote economic development and are thus an important factor in poverty eradication. the report calls on member states to contribute to the creation of a universal health fund (uhc) and to support the marshall plan, which can give a powerful boost to the development of countries in need. the report also hopes that the european development fund will also support the health system of countries with fragile infrastructure with its investments. in accordance with the above objectives, and following the line of the people's party, i voted in favour of the adoption of the report.
in writing. ‒ in march 2014, the largest ebola outbreak to date occurred in sierra leone, liberia and guinea. this report is based on experience gained during the crisis. the ebola crisis posed a major challenge to these three countries, which were ill-prepared to deal with the situation due to the shortcomings of their health and education systems. this was a huge challenge for the international community and for the europeans who were involved in the crisis. the report concludes that no further emergency aid is needed, but that the eu should continue to work to improve the organisation and resilience of health systems. it is necessary to lay down the conditions for a permanent european system with the appropriate physical and human resources for rapid response. the report highlights that investments in health promote economic development and are thus an important factor in poverty eradication. the report calls on member states to contribute to the creation of a universal health fund (uhc) and to support the marshall plan, which can give a powerful boost to the development of countries in need. the report also hopes that the european development fund will also support the health system of countries with fragile infrastructure with its investments. following the line of the people's party, and in accordance with the objectives set out above, i voted in favour of the adoption of the report.
in writing. ‒ since march 2014, sierra leone, liberia and guinea have been hit by the worst ebola outbreak in world history. the cross-border nature of the virus has made it easier for it to spread from one country to another. the three countries in question are among the lowest on the undp list in terms of human development. the average life expectancy of the population is at most 60 years, schooling rarely exceeds three years, and about 80% of the citizens live in extreme poverty. partnerships between the european union and the crisis-hit area can only be effective if liberia, guinea and sierra leone are able to take their own development into their own hands as soon as possible. the multiple challenges posed by the ebola crisis will require a future review of the european development fund (edf) programming for these three countries. it should also be noted that the mid-term review of the mff will no longer allow the risk of structural under-financing of the european union's humanitarian operations to be ignored. i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution because it deals with the issues of emissions measurement fraud by vw in a clear and understandable way. the text emphasises the protection of consumers and the enforcement of consumer rights. the additional public claims which consumers are disadvantaged by fraud under the existing motor vehicle taxation legislation of the member states should be borne by the manufacturers and not by the consumers. it is important that the new real-world emission measurements, contrary to the commission's proposal, should not only cover nox but all air pollutants. in several cases, the member states' supervisory authorities have been criticised, but the commission's research institute has already provided the commission with documents unknown to parliament from 2011 to 2013, which prove that the commission was already aware of the fraud before the scandal broke out, but did not inform the member states and their supervisory authorities.
in writing. statistics show that air pollution causes more than 430 000 premature deaths in the eu each year, so support for the motion for a resolution should not be in doubt. it is well known that nitrogen oxide emitted by diesel cars is one of the main pollutants, causing lung cancer, asthma, and many respiratory diseases, among others. one third of the eu's urban population is exposed to pollution levels that seriously endanger their health, and transport remains the main cause of poor air quality and related health consequences in cities. two questions arise: why, despite the dangers that have been known for decades, do some governments support these cars with tax breaks, or why do they buy them for the masses of thinking people at the expense of their own health, the health of their loved ones, and the health of innocent bystanders? the vw scandal that has just erupted is just the tip of the iceberg.
in writing. ‒ a motion for a resolution on the subject was tabled by six political groups: verts/ale, ppe, ecr, s&d, gue/ngl and alde. the verts/ale, the epp, the s&d and alde reached an agreement, and i supported the compromise proposal they submitted.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the proposal because i believe we need to reduce the consequences of exhaust emission tests in the automotive industry. the current system does not measure the car's emissions under real driving conditions, and i therefore agree with the proposal to strengthen this test protocol. poor practices can contribute to increasing air pollution levels, and high levels are estimated to be responsible for some 400 000 premature deaths in the eu each year. the current emission test works by measuring vehicle emissions under artificial conditions by the manufacturer, a practice that can be abused. i should note that during the scandal, it was not established how many companies knowingly distorted the results. in order to address this situation, the proposal - and the socialists and democrats among them - is to introduce a real driving emissions (rde) test procedure from 2017. i think this is a way to avoid their loopholes. but in addition to the environmental and health aspects, i think it's important to ensure that we don't have to lay off workers because of one bad management decision. i think the scandal could provide a basis for companies to invest more resources in the development of electric cars, for example.
in writing. ‒ the serious lack of enforcement of eu internal market rules, which has been brought to light by the us authorities, is regrettable. the s&d motion for a resolution urges the commission and the member states to take preventive measures and to launch an immediate investigation into the manipulation devices used in vehicles on the union market, as well as the emission limits characterising the normal performance of vehicles and the co2 values (g/km) displayed in advertisements. i voted in favour of the s&d group's motion.
i shall conclude by giving the reasons for the vote.
on behalf of the ppe group.– mr president, after a very long two months’ negotiations in september we have agreed among several parties in this chamber, and it was a very wide foundation for the commission work programme, which we have been communicating to the commission. maybe it is because of the agreement that there is not much excitement in the house or in the press outside about this; if it were voted down or there were no agreement, there would be much more excitement. but it is very important that parliament and the commission work together on this because this parliament, or most of this parliament, was elected so that the message of how the european institutions work should be changed considerably; they should be more effective. i can shortlist why the epp or in what areas the european people’s party can support the commission’s line, especially in methodology. we welcome the concentration on the 10 priorities of the juncker plan. also in the methodology, the key issues should be in line with subsidiarity and proportionality. we have seen very long commission work programmes in the past not fulfilled, so implementation and checking red tape impact assessment and all the legislation throughout the process is an important issue which we should do all the time. still on a methodology line, we asked the commission to align the legislation to the delegated and implementing act provisions, which is my personal issue, although it is much more important than my single person. this is something which we are still in debt after long years after the lisbon treaty. the commission should focus on the implementation of the existing legislation and a simplification in the area when we are speaking about the common agricultural or cohesion policy. there are two priorities in this area which the epp found very important: firstly, the mobility and the flexibility of the labour market has to be improved and youth employment skills have to be developed to keep our savoir faire and to develop innovation. also, the completion of the internal market is a key priority on the energy field and on the digital area. the competitiveness of the eu industry, especially in the area of small and medium-sized enterprises, remains a top priority to creating and saving jobs in europe. however, everyone is overwhelmed with the urgency of the refugee crisis. the epp believes in a european approach to secure the european external borders and to help those who are in danger, but we must ensure the security of our citizens as our first priority. in this area there is much legislation and parliament has already demonstrated its readiness to cooperate and act swiftly in this area. i welcome the commission’s proposal for the work programme 2016.
i would like to ask the following question to mr frans timmermans, vice-president of the european commission, who is present here today. do you agree with me that what is happening here, the discussion of the commission's work programme for 2016 between 20 of the 750 members of parliament present and the commission, is about the same at the level of the european union as the discussion of the government programme in the nation states. i suppose that's an acceptable statement. i ask you how you can explain the fact that our beloved leader, mr juncker, and the commission you lead, have presented their programme, their quasi-government programme, which, of course, determines to a large extent many aspects of the lives of 500 million citizens of the european union, to the elected representatives 15 minutes before the start of the debate. we received your government agenda in an e-mail at 2:45 p.m., and the debate began at 3:00 p.m. i ask you to give some explanation to the 500 million european citizens as to why they think this. don't you think that's humiliating? and i would ask mr martin schulz, as president of the european parliament, to make a statement on the same subject. i wanted to talk about immigration policy, which is one of the chapters of this take-home program. i think that you have had some time to write, even during your lunch break, about what the member states will have to do in the light of the new and very recent phenomenon of migration. we hungarians in the majority believe that it is the right of the hungarian people to decide what we will do and what we will not do in the context of migration, given that we have not renounced our sovereignty in this area. this is a new phenomenon, and the european union can only regulate in areas that have been explicitly renounced by nation states in treaties or by accession to the eu. migration is not included here, it's the level of migration, so it's population migration. thank you very much. i'll wait for your answer.
the committee on the internal market and consumer protection has delivered its opinion. first of all, as rapporteur for the imco committee, i would like to thank mr fernandes, who has been doing a great job and has done so far. we all know that it has been a long journey to arrive at the point where we can now speak of a budget that is well structured, efficient and, hopefully, functioning well. we've heard many times that because of the fc, certain cuts have to be made, and there were areas where there were cuts. however, there are areas where these cuts cannot be made. this is the case for consumer protection in the eu. every day, citizens of the european union are faced with new challenges and a wealth of information. it is therefore very important that adequate consumer protection can be enforced at eu level this requires adequate resources. we therefore submitted a project which was supported by a large majority of the commission. which is about being able to provide that support at this level. i would like to ask my colleagues to give this project their full support when the budget is voted.
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs.– madam president, we in the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs (libe) fully support the broad political message being sent by the commission with its significant proposal for increasing the 2016 budget in the area of migration, asylum and even border control, as the libe committee proposed earlier. but of course we have some questions on details. these are matters of tremendous political importance that we need to debate. i will just mention very shortly two points. first i welcome the increase suggested for the european asylum support office (easo). i think that we need to support easo in order that people arriving can have their asylum application properly proceed. i also wonder why europol should receive the same increase in funding and staff as easo. the second point is that we have to change the nomenclature of the amif budget lines because putting integration and return together in one budget line is just avoiding being clear on where the money is being spent. these two small examples show that we need some more debate on the most important political issues of the budget.
it's a two-card draw. the reasons you mentioned 50 years ago. there are probably people in this room who can give reasons going back 100, 200, 500, 1,000 years. but why do you think, or what makes you think, that the high representative is responsible for these historical reasons? i think, and i hope you agree with me, and this is my question, do you agree with me, that we need to start now and sit down to negotiate now, and not by either side taking a unilateral step in any direction.
it's a two-card draw. - mr. speaker, i have to ask you to excuse me. listening to your speech, i'd like to ask you what reforms you have in mind. and i understand your big offer to push the british government, but really, we always say reform, reform, but what kind of reforms do you want? because in my country, hungary, for example, despite the cohesion efforts, 40% of the population now lives below the minimum wage, and 5% of the population is hungry.
madam president, colleagues, i have to say that i am very pleased with the results of the vote. when we created the 2014-2020 cohesion policy framework, one of our guiding principles was to make the eu's cohesion policy more effective and efficient. progress has been made towards simplification, but the administrative burden on the final beneficiaries of cohesion policy is still unacceptably high. this is particularly true in the case of public procurement. it's no accident that this is an area where the error rate is sky-high, and this is often due to the complexity of the regulations, the lack of clarity in their interpretation. among the suggestions made in this oral question, i would now like to draw attention to the need to strike the optimum balance between simplification and accountability. it is important that potential cohesion policy beneficiaries submit all data and information during the application process that demonstrates their eligibility for union support, where appropriate for example in public procurement to comply with the requirements on conflicts of interest, but do not expect to provide information that only complicates the process and hinders implementation, and therefore ultimately constitutes an obstacle to effectiveness.
in writing. eusair is the third eu macro-regional strategy, which can build on the experience of the baltic and danube strategies. the adriatic and ionian region is home to over 70 million people and covers eight countries, including four eu member states (croatia, greece, italy, slovenia), three candidate countries (albania, montenegro, serbia) and bosnia and herzegovina as a potential candidate country. i believe that the draft report is well-founded, as eusair provides a good opportunity for the countries of the region to promote sustainable development. the strategy's pillars (blue growth, development of the region's infrastructure links, environmental protection, sustainable and competitive tourism) and other priorities (eu integration of the western balkan countries, ensuring coherence between the three eu macro-regional strategies and national strategic projects) promote economic development and job creation. however, i think it is important to emphasise that for each macro-regional strategy an overall assessment of the results is needed. it is necessary to ensure that the strategies represent a genuine european added value and have a real, tangible positive impact in the region concerned.
in writing. the eu strategy for the adriatic and ionian sea region, which governs a new european macro-region comprising 8 countries, both eu member states (italy, slovenia, croatia and greece) and candidate countries (serbia, montenegro, albania and bosnia and herzegovina). this is a very important step, as it will allow the region to develop faster, to boost its economy, to improve connectivity and, above all, to cooperate more closely in order to maintain good relations. in my amendments to the report, i considered it important to stress the need to provide rapid and adequate assistance to these countries in the event of natural disasters, so that they can recover as quickly as possible from the damage they have suffered. from a transport perspective and in the interests of better connectivity, it is essential that these countries are successfully connected to the ten-t transport network and that the strategy creates even closer cooperation between the countries of the region.
on behalf of the ppe group.– madam president, there is nothing untoward in the european parliament looking to establish a common system of elections for itself. every parliament in the world does so, and it adds to transparency and predictability if the systems by which citizens choose their representatives in the eu are broadly similar – similar if not identical, given that there are 28 different political traditions involved. the sensitive issue here is that of a threshold. should there be a minimum percentage of votes that a party list has to attract before it acquires representation? in some member states there is no support for this, but in the great majority it is accepted practice. the threshold helps to weed out frivolous contestants whose sole interest is in attracting attention. there is a counter-argument that the institution of the threshold restricts the political marketplace by creating too high a barrier to entry. the answer is a balance between the two: to have a threshold but not to set it too high. that is what this report tries to attain – setting a threshold but not making that threshold insurmountable. from every standpoint, this is the sensible, rational solution.
it's a two-card draw. i would like to speak to a member of parliament. we agree that this proposal needs further work, but i would prefer that we as a parliament give the commission a direction. a direction that shows you the ways to look. i didn't quite get from your speech that you would now ban or allow genetically modified materials?
the commission proposal to ban genetically modified food and feed in member states is rejected by the pro-gmo parties. they represent large-scale farming, animal husbandry. they're all about economic performance, profit. they fear that restricting gm feed will reduce their competitiveness. the other side, which i belong to, is committed to quality, non-gmo european agriculture, food. the commission proposal does not provide for a real ban. the ban must not violate an international treaty such as the wto or ttip if it is concluded and there is little scientific evidence to support the justification by member states. you need compelling, compelling reasons. it's a rubber law! a real ban in the member states would be needed to enable member states to take advantage of this opportunity.
and to my fellow countrymen, i thank you very, very much for this opportunity. madam president, please. the sum of this debate is, i think, that parliament wants to support this whole initiative, although i feel that many of us have many reservations. i would like to mention a few of them. europe is rich. europe is investing a lot of resources in research and development, looking to the future. but let's not forget that if we think about it at the level of traditional food, one fifth of europeans are hungry at the same time. i am not sure that either parliament or the other european institutions should devote so much energy to matters which really only serve the interests of a very small section of the population across europe. i think that's the least we could do to address the hunger, not least the children, who are perhaps more in the eastern half of europe.
i'll close this discussion. the vote will take place on wednesday 28 october 2015. the commission shall be assisted by the committee established by article 15 of regulation (eu) no 182/2011.
the next item is the debate on the report by julie girling on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety on the proposal for a directive on the emission of certain pollutants into the air (com ((2013) 0920 - c7-0004/2014 - 2013/0443 (cod)) (a8-0249/2015).
thank you, congresswoman, and congratulations on your newborn. welcome to the club.
i'll close this discussion. the vote will take place on wednesday 28 october 2015. the commission shall be assisted by the committee established by article 15 of regulation (eu) no 182/2011.
in writing. - my fellow members of parliament! the draft parliament position on the amendment of the air quality directive is problematic in many respects. on the one hand, the proposed methane emission limits would have a devastating impact on hungarian livestock farming. the hungarian government is doing everything it can to encourage the increase of domestic cattle and pigs, which has fortunately led to an increase in both stocks. the proposed limit which according to expert calculations would require a 30% reduction of current emissions! would meet one of the most important objectives of the hungarian agricultural administration, the objective of increasing livestock. the reduction of methane emissions is already regulated and is covered by the community's commitment to reduce greenhouse gases. there are also serious problems with ammonia emission limits. the 2030 and 2020 limits are already unrealistic, but the proposed 2025 mid-term limit is downright outrageous. for hungary, this would require a reduction of almost 40%! furthermore, unnecessary legislation would be introduced here, as fertilisation methods are already regulated by the provisions of the mutual accountability scheme and other environmental rules in particular the nitrate directive. this would complicate the situation of farmers and result in unenforceable requirements. i therefore demand that the methane emission limit values be removed from the draft and the ammonia emission limits be reduced to a reasonable level, otherwise i will not be able to support the proposal.
in writing. yesterday we agreed that the issue of car emissions controls should be urgently investigated and that vehicle tests based on real driving conditions should be introduced without delay. we have told european citizens that it is no longer possible to break the rules designed to protect their health and the environment with impunity. so the only logical next step today is to change the legislation that limits emissions, based on the report of the environmental protection committee. if we do, we could save more than 74,000 people a year across europe from premature death according to the latest expert calculations (http://www.eeb.org/?linkservid=9168dfdd-5056-b741-dba5b64c92b81f9d&showmeta=0&aa). diseases caused by air pollution have significant economic costs in the health sector and due to lost working hours. in order to prevent this, binding targets should be adopted in europe for 2020, 2025 and 2030. mandatory limits for ammonia, methane and mercury are also required in the directive. earlier this week, i was doing air quality measurements in the center of budapest with the air task force. the results confirmed the need to reduce air pollution immediately: the amount of pollutants increased to 14 times the normal urban level when a diesel car passed by. the impact assessment of the committee on the environment (interactions between eu air quality policy and climate and energy policy (oct 2014) http://www.europarl.europa.eu/regdata/etudes/stud/2014/528802/eprs_stu%282014%29528802_rev1_en.pdf) showed that it would not cost more to achieve stricter targets than the european commission's original proposal, while saving tens of thousands of lives.
in writing. ‒ in line with the european people's party's line, i voted in favour of the adoption of parliament's position on the 2016 eu budget. the ep also called for the commission to be given the power to adopt legislative proposals on the basis of the principle of subsidiarity. the eu budget for 2016 will be able to finance the €500 million dairy rescue package, so that all obstacles to the timely delivery of the promised eu aid of huf 2.9 billion to hungarian dairy farmers can be overcome.
in writing. ‒ the hungarian people's party mps have voted to ensure that hungary is one of the winners of the 2016 eu budget. the vote was a vote to defend hungary's cohesion funds, as the plenary confirmed the position that the committee on budgets had already voted by a large majority against any proposal to reduce the european regional development fund by 20% for countries (including hungary) that opposed the european commission's quotas for relocating migrants. the priority was to reverse the reduction in the pre-accession fund proposed by the council. these instruments have a decisive influence on the accession aspirations of the candidate countries, such as serbia and the former hungarians. thanks to the proposals of the hungarian people's party delegation, tens of millions of euros were raised. the plenary session protected agricultural resources from council cuts in line with hungarian interests. the eu's 2016 budget will provide the funds for the 500 million euro dairy rescue package, so that hungarian milk producers can receive the promised huf 2.9 billion in eu aid on time.
in writing. ‒ the vote confirmed the cohesion funds for hungary, as the plenary confirmed the position that the committee on budgets had already voted by a large majority against any move to reduce the european regional development fund by 20% for countries (including hungary) that opposed the european commission's quotas for the relocation of migrants. the priority was to reverse the reduction in the pre-accession fund proposed by the council. these instruments have a decisive influence on the accession aspirations of the candidate countries, such as serbia and the former hungarians. thanks to the proposals of the fidesz delegation, tens of millions of euros were raised. the plenary session protected agricultural resources from council cuts in line with hungarian interests. the eu's 2016 budget will provide the funds for the 500 million euro dairy rescue package, so that hungarian milk producers can receive the promised huf 2.9 billion in eu aid on time. the hungarian people's party mps voted to ensure that hungary is one of the winners of the 2016 eu budget. the proposals adopted include the 'diverse europe' joint project. under this, €1 million will be available from eu funds to fund minority programmes supporting the elimination of discrimination.
in writing. ‒ the hungarian people's party mps have voted to ensure that hungary is one of the winners of the 2016 eu budget. the vote was a vote to defend hungary's cohesion funds, as the plenary confirmed the position that the committee on budgets had already voted by a large majority against any proposal to reduce the european regional development fund by 20% for countries (including hungary) that opposed the european commission's quotas for relocating migrants. the priority was to reverse the reduction in the pre-accession fund proposed by the council. these instruments have a decisive influence on the accession aspirations of the candidate countries, such as serbia and the former hungarians. thanks to the proposals of the fidesz delegation, tens of millions of euros were raised. the plenary session protected agricultural resources from council cuts in line with hungarian interests. the eu's 2016 budget will provide the funds for the 500 million euro dairy rescue package, so that hungarian milk producers can receive the promised huf 2.9 billion in eu aid on time. the proposals adopted include the joint project 'colourful europe' by csáky pál (mkp) and gál kinga (fidesz). under this, €1 million will be available from eu funds to fund minority programmes supporting the elimination of discrimination.
in writing. the hungarian people's party mps voted to ensure that hungary is one of the winners of the 2016 eu budget. the vote was a vote to defend hungary's cohesion funds, as the plenary confirmed the position that the committee on budgets had already voted by a large majority against any proposal to reduce the european regional development fund by 20% for countries (including hungary) that opposed the european commission's quotas for relocating migrants. the priority was to reverse the reduction in the pre-accession fund proposed by the council. these instruments have a decisive influence on the accession aspirations of the candidate countries, such as serbia and the former hungarians. thanks to the proposals of the fidesz delegation, tens of millions of euros were raised. the plenary session protected agricultural resources from council cuts in line with hungarian interests. the eu's 2016 budget will provide the funds for the 500 million euro dairy rescue package, so that hungarian milk producers can receive the promised huf 2.9 billion in eu aid on time. the proposals adopted include the joint project 'colourful europe' by csáky pál (mkp) and gál kinga (fidesz). under this, €1 million will be available from eu funds to fund minority programmes supporting the elimination of discrimination.
in writing. ‒ in line with the european people's party's line, i voted in favour of the adoption of parliament's position on the 2016 eu budget. the ep also called for the commission to be given the power to adopt legislative proposals on the basis of the principle of subsidiarity. the eu budget for 2016 will be able to finance the €500 million dairy rescue package, so that all obstacles to the timely delivery of the promised eu aid of huf 2.9 billion to hungarian dairy farmers can be overcome.
in writing. ‒ the hungarian people's party mps have voted to ensure that hungary is one of the winners of the 2016 eu budget. the vote was a vote to defend hungary's cohesion funds, as the plenary confirmed the position that the committee on budgets had already voted by a large majority against any proposal to reduce the european regional development fund by 20% for countries (including hungary) that opposed the european commission's quotas for relocating migrants. the priority was to reverse the reduction in the pre-accession fund proposed by the council. these instruments have a decisive influence on the accession aspirations of the candidate countries, such as serbia and the former hungarians. thanks to the proposals of the fidesz delegation, tens of millions of euros were raised. the plenary session protected agricultural resources from council cuts in line with hungarian interests. the eu's 2016 budget will provide the funds for the 500 million euro dairy rescue package, so that hungarian milk producers can receive the promised huf 2.9 billion in eu aid on time. among the proposals adopted is the joint project 'colourful europe' by csáky pál (mkp) and gál kinga (fidesz), which will provide €1 million from eu funds to fund minority programmes to support the elimination of discrimination.
in writing. ‒ on 24 june 2015, the commission adopted the draft general budget of the union for the financial year 2016. on 4 september 2015, the council adopted its position on the draft and forwarded it to parliament on 17 september 2015. the report of parliament's committee on budgets goes beyond or contradicts the council's position on a number of points. the commission also proposes that the council should adopt a decision on the establishment of a european agency for the evaluation of medicinal products for human use (hereinafter 'the agency') and that the commission should submit a report to the european parliament and the council on the application of this regulation. it proposes new commitments for 2016 to continue the youth employment initiative, increasing the 2016 appropriations by eur 473,2 million. the launch of the strategic investment fund proposes to fully reimburse the amounts withdrawn from horizon2020 and the network financing facility (eur 1326 million) in the 2016 budget. finally, it proposes to reinstate all the reductions proposed by the council in the draft budget (eur 563.6 million for commitments and eur 1421.8 million for payments). it therefore proposes that parliament set the overall level of appropriations for 2016 at eur 157 427,5 million in commitment appropriations and eur 146 459,5 million in payment appropriations. i agree with the position of the committee on budgets and therefore voted in favour of the motion for a resolution.
in writing. ‒ the hungarian people's party mps have voted to ensure that hungary is one of the winners of the 2016 eu budget. the vote was a vote to defend hungary's cohesion funds, as the plenary confirmed the position that the committee on budgets had already voted by a large majority against any proposal to reduce the european regional development fund by 20% for countries (including hungary) that opposed the european commission's quotas for relocating migrants. the priority was to reverse the reduction in the pre-accession fund proposed by the council. these instruments have a decisive influence on the accession aspirations of the candidate countries, such as serbia and the former hungarians. thanks to the proposals of the fidesz delegation, tens of millions of euros were raised. the plenary session protected agricultural resources from council cuts in line with hungarian interests. the eu's 2016 budget will provide the funds for the 500 million euro dairy rescue package, so that hungarian milk producers can receive the promised huf 2.9 billion in eu aid on time. the proposals adopted include the joint project 'colourful europe' by csáky pál (mkp) and gál kinga (fidesz). under this, €1 million will be available from eu funds to fund minority programmes supporting the elimination of discrimination.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the proposal for a budget for the european union for 2016, because i believe that the draft budget as a whole and most of its chapters are suitable for the union to meet the challenges and tasks it faces in the coming period. the draft budget provides the necessary resources for the eu to deal effectively with the refugee crisis by transferring eur 800 million, with the expected flexibility. it also provides for appropriate amounts for other related international and humanitarian tasks, while keeping in mind the need to promote economic development and modernisation as a primary community challenge. in general, my vote was intended to recognise that the draft budget for the financial year 2016 is sufficiently transparent, adequately reflects the social and european policy priorities of my party and of my group in terms of both its proportions and its objectives, and is suitable for adequate funding of the community activities resulting therefrom.
in writing. ‒ having regard to the report of the committee on budgets and the opinions of the other committees concerned, and given that the parliament's reading of the 2016 budget fully reflects the political priorities adopted by an overwhelming majority in the abovementioned resolutions of 11 march 2015 on the general guidelines and of 8 july 2015 on the mandate for the tripartite consultation, i have therefore supported the report.
in writing. ‒ the increase in the number of judges at the court of justice of the european union has been on the agenda for several years. the court first proposed this in 2011 as the increased number of cases could not be dealt with effectively enough. as no compromise with the european council was reached on this issue until the 2014 european parliament elections, the european parliament adopted its position at first reading on 15 april 2014. in september 2014, the italian presidency requested a new draft proposal from the court of justice, as the member states could not agree in the council on the system for the selection of judges, as the proposed total of 12 judges could not be appointed fairly on a national basis. the new proposal finally resulted in an agreement between the member states in the european council, which was adopted by the european parliament's juri committee responsible for this dossier in the so-called second reading. it provides for a gradual increase in the number of judges to a total of 56 and for a balance between the sexes and the nationalities. the decision also contains a review clause, which provides for an impact assessment to be carried out after five years to determine whether the proposed solution fulfils the expectations, namely the processing of the backlog in order to ensure a balanced, rapid and professional legal system. that's why i voted for the motion.
in writing. ‒ parliament has to reject the council's proposal for a number of reasons. first, because it completely ignores the interests of the taxpayers. at a time when the eu is imposing severe austerity measures to balance member states' budgets and is calling on them to reduce public spending, such a frivolous increase in spending is pointless and difficult for europeans to accept. the doubling of the number of judges would also entail an increase in the number of legal advisers and assistants, thus increasing the number of judges to more than 100. given that each agency costs more than eur 1 million per year to run, the total remuneration would increase eu structural expenditure by more than eur 20 million per year. the second reason why parliament rejects the proposal of the cjeu is the very dignity of the judiciary, that is, the reputation and respect due to the judiciary. the union may not appoint judges in the same way as it appoints political commissioners. the selection of judges should be based on their professional experience and legal expertise in order to guarantee the quality of the decision-making, while the selection should also be based on their good character, which ensures integrity, honesty and impartiality. in addition, gender equality should be given special attention at the appointment stage. it is incomprehensible that the judiciary in the union is primarily in the hands of men. the proportion of male and female judges in the courts of the union should be strictly the same.
in writing. ‒ the increase in the number of judges at the court of justice of the european union has been on the agenda for several years. the court first proposed this in 2011 as the increased number of cases could not be dealt with effectively enough. as no compromise with the european council was reached on this issue until the 2014 european parliament elections, the european parliament adopted its position at first reading on 15 april 2014. in september 2014, the italian presidency requested a new draft proposal from the court of justice, as the member states could not agree in the council on the system for the selection of judges, as the proposed total of 12 judges could not be appointed fairly on a national basis. the new proposal finally resulted in an agreement between the member states in the european council, which was adopted by the european parliament's committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection (juri) in what is known as the second reading. it provides for a gradual increase in the number of judges to a total of 56 and for a balance between the sexes and the nationalities. the decision also contains a review clause, which provides for an impact assessment to be carried out after five years to determine whether the proposed solution fulfils the expectations, namely the processing of the backlog in order to ensure a balanced, rapid and professional legal system.
in writing. ‒ in 2011, the court of justice of the european union (cjeu) initiated the appointment of 12 additional judges to the general court. the parliament accepted the request for 12 additional judges at first reading, but the council did not appoint any of them, since the number of judges to be appointed was significantly below the number of member states, each of which wanted to appoint its own judge. the euj therefore proposed in october 2014 to double the number of ad hoc judges. the council approved the proposal, but parliament's legal affairs committee argues in its report that the proposal should be rejected. it points out that this proposal does not reflect the actual needs arising from the overload of judges, but rather the council's inability to reach an agreement due to the self-interest of the member states. the rejection proposal is justified on the one hand by budgetary considerations (whereas the other institutions have agreed to a 5% reduction in staff and a budget of around 0.5%, the budget of the eeas would increase by more than eur 20 million per year) and on the other by the dignity of the judiciary and the reputation and respect due to the judiciary. in the latter respect, it states that judges should be selected on the basis of their professional experience and legal expertise and not on the basis of their national origin. i found the arguments of the legal affairs committee to be well founded and therefore supported the referral.
in writing. ‒ the increase in the number of judges at the court of justice of the european union has been on the agenda for several years. the court first proposed this in 2011 as the increased number of cases could not be dealt with effectively enough. as no compromise with the european council was reached on this issue until the 2014 european parliament elections, the european parliament adopted its position at first reading on 15 april 2014. in september 2014, the italian presidency requested a new draft proposal from the court of justice, as the member states could not agree in the council on the system for the selection of judges, as the proposed total of 12 judges could not be appointed fairly on a national basis. the new proposal finally resulted in an agreement between the member states in the european council, which was adopted by the european parliament's juri committee responsible for this dossier in the so-called second reading. it provides for a gradual increase in the number of judges to a total of 56 and for a balance between the sexes and the nationalities. the decision also contains a review clause, which provides for an impact assessment to be carried out after five years to determine whether the proposed solution fulfils the expectations, namely the processing of the backlog in order to ensure a balanced, rapid and professional legal system. that's why i voted for the motion.
in writing. ‒ i think it is important to underline that i myself supported the adoption of amendments to the recommendation at second reading in several places, i.e. also that the debate on the issue should not be closed at this stage. i would like to address just one of my concerns. i consider that the length of the proceedings is unacceptable, in particular from the point of view of the parties, in the light of the requirements laid down in article 47 of the charter of fundamental rights of the european union and article 6 of the european convention for the protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms. the court of justice of the european union has consistently held that the right to a fair hearing is a fundamental right of all citizens of the union. in view of this and of my other concerns regarding the matter raised in the recommendation submitted to us in the second reading procedure, i consider it important that the matter has not been closed by the european parliament in its present form.
in writing. ‒ in 2011, the court of justice of the european union (cjeu) launched a legislative initiative to amend its statute to allow the appointment of 12 additional judges to the general court. he argued that the number of proceedings before the general court involving a single judge should be reduced, as should the length of those proceedings. the rapporteur believes that parliament should reject the council's proposal for a number of reasons. first, because it completely ignores the taxpayers' money. considering the arguments, i supported the motion.
in writing. ‒ in line with the european people's party's line, i voted in favour of the adoption of the legislative amendment incorporating the recommendations of the general fisheries commission for the mediterranean. the recommendations also make it clear that the european union is obliged to limit its sea fishing to the extent necessary to maintain marine fish stocks. 30% of the world's oceans are overfished, and marine fish stocks are in danger. the reasoned measures taken to maintain them have led to a continuous and significant decline in the amount of marine fish caught. the cfp should therefore pay much more attention to sustainable fisheries, i.e. aquaculture, and in particular freshwater fisheries. a significant part of the hungarian wetlands is located in natura 2000 areas. these fish farms do not represent any threat to the natural values of these areas. in fact, in many cases it is our closed systems of wetlands that have created and preserved unique associations of aquatic habitats. therefore, freshwater aquaculture should be given priority and maximum support from the union. moreover, this area should be freed from unnecessarily stringent and unnecessary sustainability standards that are justified only for marine fisheries.
in writing. ‒ i welcome the agreement of the european parliament and the council to transpose into eu law the recommendation of the agreement establishing the general fisheries commission for the mediterranean, which provides an appropriate framework for multilateral cooperation to promote the sustainable and low-risk development, protection, rational management and best possible use of living marine resources in the mediterranean and the black sea. i consider it important to emphasise that, as regards fishing gear and fishing gear used for the collection of red coral, the co-legislators agree that the use of underwater remotely controlled vehicles for the monitoring and searching of red coral in the waters under the jurisdiction of the member states should continue to be allowed, provided that such vehicles are not equipped with movable arms or any other accessories suitable for the cutting and collection of red coral.
in writing. ‒ since the council's position at first reading is the same as that agreed in the trilogue, the rapporteur has convinced the committee to accept it without further amendments.
in writing. ‒ the general hungarian position on gmos is well known. hungary has enshrined its gmo-free status in its basic law and has accordingly played an active role in the negotiations on the proposal to restrict public production. the new commission proposal before us is in line with hungary's gmo-free policy, as it would allow member states to ban the use of food and feed containing gmos on their territory. the commission's proposal should therefore not be rejected, despite its obvious errors and shortcomings, but negotiations should be continued in a constructive spirit. the cooperative approach was also the basis for the introduction of the joint production ban legislation, and this approach helped the parties through the difficult stages of the legislative process, which lasted for 5 years. if we don't give this proposal a chance to be debated, we may miss an opportunity that will not be followed by another. on the basis of all this, i did not support the report of mr la via to reject the proposal.
in writing. the general hungarian position on gmos is well known. hungary has enshrined its gmo-free status in its basic law and has accordingly played an active role in the negotiations on the proposal to restrict public production. the new commission proposal before us is in line with hungary's gmo-free policy, as it would allow member states to ban the use of genetically modified food and feed on their territory. the commission's proposal should therefore not be rejected, despite its obvious errors and shortcomings, but negotiations should be continued in a constructive spirit. the cooperative approach was also the basis for the introduction of the joint production ban legislation, and this approach helped the parties through the difficult stages of the legislative process, which lasted for 5 years. if we don't give this proposal a chance to be debated, we may miss an opportunity that will not be followed by another. on the basis of all this, i did not support the report of mr la via to reject the proposal.
in writing. ‒ i am dissatisfied with the european commission's stance on the current gmo issue. the panel has put on the table a proposal that is unacceptable from all points of view, including the internal market, the feed supply and international trade. that's why i couldn't support this proposal, even though it's a hot topic. the european union now depends on imports for more than 70% of its feed, and last year's figures showed that 30 million tonnes of gm feed were being imported into the union each year. this raises serious public safety and health concerns. the response should not be an unenforceable and illegal legislative proposal. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' to cover the whole of the eu. in the meantime, we must work hard to reduce the eu's dependence on feed. a good example of this is the national speech programme launched by the hungarian government, which has been successful.
in writing. ‒ i take seriously the concerns raised in the report that member states should be able to restrict or prohibit the use of genetically modified food and feed on their territory after the products have been authorised. in my view, such measures should in any event be compatible with both the internal market and the international obligations of the union. in this context, the rapporteur shares the serious concern expressed by the commission about the far-reaching implications of the proposal for the functioning of the internal market for food and feed and for the competitiveness of the union's agriculture. furthermore, i believe that the proposal is almost impossible to implement, as there are no longer any border controls within the eu agricultural sector. the reintroduction of such controls between member states would reverse the economic results achieved by the european customs union and the internal market. it is also unclear how member states with opt-outs would in practice ensure compliance with such measures in their territory.
in writing. ‒ the general hungarian position on gmos is well known. hungary has enshrined its gmo-free status in its basic law and has accordingly played an active role in the negotiations on the proposal to restrict public production. the new commission proposal before us is in line with hungary's gmo-free policy, as it would allow member states to ban the use of genetically modified food and feed on their territory. the commission's proposal should therefore not be rejected, despite its obvious errors and shortcomings, but negotiations should be continued in a constructive spirit. the cooperative approach was also the basis for the introduction of the common agricultural policy, helping the parties to overcome the difficult stages of the five-year legislative process. if we don't give this proposal a chance to be debated, we may miss an opportunity that will not be followed by another. on the basis of all this, i did not vote in favour of the report by mr la via.
in writing. ‒ the general hungarian position on gmos is well known. hungary has enshrined its gmo-free status in its basic law and has accordingly played an active role in the negotiations on the proposal to restrict public production. the new commission proposal before us is in line with hungary's gmo-free policy, as it would allow member states to ban the use of genetically modified food and feed on their territory. the commission's proposal should therefore not be rejected, despite its obvious errors and shortcomings, but negotiations should be continued in a constructive spirit. the cooperative approach was also the basis for the creation of the law on the prohibition of public farming. this attitude helped the parties through the difficult stages of the five-year legislative process. if we don't give this proposal a chance to be debated, we may miss an opportunity that will not be followed by another. on the basis of all this, i did not support the report of mr la via to reject the proposal.
in writing. ‒ on 22 april 2015, the european commission proposed a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending regulation (ec) no 1829/2003 as regards the possibility for member states to restrict or prohibit the use of genetically modified food and feed on their territory. the belgian chamber of deputies, the spanish parliament, the dutch house of representatives and the austrian federal council consider that the draft law is incompatible with the principle of subsidiarity. the report by parliament's committee on the environment, public health and food safety points out that the proposal could seriously jeopardise livestock farming and have a negative impact on eu agriculture. moreover, it explains that the proposal is almost unfeasible as there are no longer any border controls within the eu agricultural sector. in view of the above, it recommended that parliament reject the commission proposal. i voted in accordance with the recommendation of the parliamentary committee.
in writing. ‒ the issue of genetically modified (gm) food and feed is dividing eu decision-makers and a large part of the population is outright opposed to these products. parliament, the council and the commission have long been trying to find a way to treat these products under common eu rules without hindering scientific progress. the commission's present proposal, however, did not deal with the matter properly, which is why i voted in favour of the commission withdrawing the proposal and drawing up a new one. i believe that a short-term solution is for member states to decide whether to allow or prohibit the marketing of gm products. but it also requires a debate with the participation of society, based on analysis, to find a solution. we need to take into account global population growth, changes in consumption patterns, our dependence on imported protein, the effects of gm feed and the fact that the free movement of products within the eu single market cannot be restricted. i also see a strict labelling system as one possible solution if it is introduced at a later stage.
in writing. ‒ on 22 april 2015, the commission presented, together with the communication on the review of decision-making procedures for genetically modified organisms, a proposal for a regulation amending regulation (ec) no 1829/2003 as regards the possibility for member states to restrict or prohibit the use of genetically modified food and feed on their territory. i voted in favour of the report on this.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report because the proposed definitions are far from satisfactory, do not create legal certainty and ultimately do not clarify the scope and definition of novel foods, which was one of the main objectives of the commission's new proposal. while i welcome the commission's intention to develop an extended concept for the definition of novel foods covering all types of food innovation, the elimination of categories has raised serious concerns. while all the food industry actors concerned agreed that the new definition was not workable, there was already a difference of opinion on what should replace it. in recognition of the scientific and technical progress in the food industry and the need to improve legal certainty, i believe that the most sensible step would be to introduce new categories of novel foods in a modern form in order to make the novel food provision future-proof against unexpected industrial developments. i also consider it important that the regulation is adapted to technical progress and new types of products entering the union market.
in writing. ‒ the rules on novel foods were laid down in regulation (ec) no 258/97 of the european parliament and of the council, which entered into force on 5 may 1997, and in commission regulation (ec) no 1852/2001 of 20 september 2001. the protection of human health and the interests of consumers require that a novel food or food ingredient be authorised before it is placed on the market. however, fundamental scientific and technical developments in the food industry have rendered the definition of novel foods in regulation (ec) no 258/97 obsolete and therefore it needs to be reviewed. the european commission proposed to modernise the regulation back in 2008, but the conciliation committee agreement was thwarted by the issue of the placing on the market of food derived from cloned animals. the commission therefore made a new proposal in december 2013 which includes the issues on which there was previously agreement, but does not address the issue of cloning the commission made separate proposals on the latter. parliament, in its report to the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, tabled more than 100 amendments to the proposal, but recommended the proposal to parliament for adoption. i voted on the motion accordingly.
in writing. ‒ i consider the field of new foodstuffs to be an important area of innovation. these include chia seeds, flavonoids from licorice root, crab fragrance, but also products containing insects, nanomaterials, algae or certain dyes. the proposal aims to protect public health, food safety and to strengthen the functioning of the internal food market in relation to new products, while supporting the innovative food sector. i believe that only products that do not pose a moral, environmental or health risk should be authorised for human or animal consumption. this is why we need eu-wide regulation, plus tools such as labelling, consumer information or the introduction of an information campaign. the report takes steps towards the development of rules at eu level in the field of safety testing and authorisation of novel foods. while i supported most of the amendments, i abstained from the final vote because key points that were important to me were not included in the final text, such as the issues of cloning and nanomaterials.
in writing. ‒ the directive on the control of certain atmospheric pollutants is an important step towards reducing the adverse effects of air pollution on human health and improving air quality in europe. the achievement of the targets requires proportionate and realistic emission limit values, which also take into account national strategies. the adoption of legislation which ignores this principle would have a very bad impact not only on hungary's agriculture but on that of the whole union. an unrealistic methane emission reduction limit would undermine one of the hungarian government's key objectives, namely a significant increase in livestock numbers. methane is a greenhouse gas, so there's already a climate reduction obligation. the same applies to ammonia, where fertilisation methods are already regulated by the provisions of the cross compliance system, in particular the nitrates directive. this would complicate the situation of farmers and result in unenforceable requirements. no concrete reduction target for 2030 can be set at this time, as air pollution is affected by a number of variable factors and there is no linear reduction pathway. finally, it should be noted that the european commission only planned to tighten the thresholds after 2020, given that many member states are still struggling to meet the previous targets. on the basis of the above, i voted in favour of all the amendments tabled by the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection to the report adopted by the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection, which seek to abolish methane and to make fundamental changes to the ammonia standards.
in writing. the directive on the emission of certain pollutants into the air is an important step towards reducing the adverse effects of air pollution on human health and improving air quality in europe. the achievement of the targets requires proportionate and realistic emission limit values, which also take into account national strategies. the adoption of legislation which ignores this principle would have a very bad impact not only on hungary's agriculture but on that of the whole union. an unrealistic methane emission reduction limit would undermine one of the hungarian government's key objectives, namely a significant increase in livestock numbers. methane is a greenhouse gas, so there's already a climate reduction obligation. the same applies to ammonia, where fertilisation methods are already regulated by the provisions of the cross compliance system, in particular the nitrates directive. this would complicate the situation of farmers and result in unenforceable requirements. no concrete reduction target for 2030 can be set at this time, as air pollution is affected by a number of variable factors and there is no linear reduction pathway. finally, it should be noted that the european commission only planned to tighten the thresholds after 2020, given that many member states are still struggling to meet the previous targets. on the basis of the above, i voted in favour of all the amendments tabled by the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection to the report adopted by the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection, which seek to abolish methane and to make fundamental changes to the ammonia standards.
in writing. ‒ in line with the guidelines of the european people's party, i voted in favour of the adoption of the parliament's position on the amendment of the air quality directive. this proposal originally carried enormous dangers. a proposal for methane emission limits was put forward which would have had a devastating impact on livestock farming in the eu and hungary. the currently growing domestic cattle and pig stocks would have been decimated by an overly strict methane emission limit value, thus undermining one of the most important objectives of the hungarian agricultural administration, namely the increase in livestock. it's a big achievement for hungary to have managed to remove methane from the parliamentary report. the commission therefore concludes that the aid is compatible with the internal market within the meaning of article 107 (3) (c) of the treaty. the commission has also concluded that the measures under investigation are in line with the principles of the union guidelines on state aid for rescuing and restructuring firms in difficulty, as set out in recitals (47) to (48) of the provisional regulation.
in writing. ‒ fact-based policymaking should be a cornerstone of eu law. although work is being done across the union to reduce air pollution, many member states are not complying with the standards adopted. in addition, the union is still far from meeting its long-term objective of the limit values for pollutants proposed in the who 2005 air quality guidelines. poor air quality contributes to premature death, sickness absence from work, high health costs, reduced productivity, lost yields and deterioration of buildings. in line with the rapporteur, i support the commission's newfound commitment to smarter, more reasonable regulation and to reducing the administrative burden on businesses and member states. it should also be emphasised that the ceilings for the target dates set out in the report should be set in such a way as to be realistic, proportionate and achievable, based on facts and not affecting any sector disproportionately.
in writing. ‒ the directive on the control of certain atmospheric pollutants is an important step towards reducing the adverse effects of air pollution on human health and improving air quality in europe. the achievement of the targets requires proportionate and realistic emission limit values, which also take into account national strategies. the adoption of legislation which ignores this principle would have a very bad impact not only on hungary's agriculture but on that of the whole union. an unrealistic methane emission reduction limit would undermine one of the hungarian government's key objectives, namely a significant increase in livestock numbers. methane is a greenhouse gas, so there's already a climate reduction obligation. the same applies to ammonia, where fertilisation methods are already regulated by the provisions of the cross compliance system, in particular the nitrates directive. this would complicate the situation of farmers and result in unenforceable requirements. no concrete reduction target for 2030 can be set at this time, as air pollution is affected by a number of variable factors and there is no linear reduction pathway. finally, it should be noted that the european commission only planned to tighten the thresholds after 2020, given that many member states are still struggling to meet the previous targets. on the basis of the above, i voted in favour of all the amendments tabled by the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection to the report adopted by the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection, which seek to abolish methane and to make fundamental changes to the ammonia standards.
in writing. ‒ the directive on the control of certain atmospheric pollutants is an important step towards reducing the adverse effects of air pollution on human health and improving air quality in europe. the achievement of the targets requires proportionate and realistic emission limit values, which also take into account national strategies. the adoption of legislation which ignores this principle would have a very bad impact not only on hungary's agriculture but on that of the whole union. an unrealistic methane emission reduction limit would undermine one of the hungarian government's key objectives, namely a significant increase in livestock numbers. methane is a greenhouse gas, so there's already a climate reduction obligation. the same applies to ammonia, where fertilisation methods are already regulated by the provisions of the cross compliance system, in particular the nitrates directive. this would complicate the situation of farmers and result in unenforceable requirements. it is not possible to set a specific reduction target for 2030 at this time, as air pollution is affected by a number of changing factors and there is no linear reduction pathway. finally, it should be noted that the european commission only planned to tighten the thresholds after 2020, given that many member states are still struggling to meet the previous targets. on the basis of the above, i voted in favour of all the amendments tabled by the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection to the report adopted by the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection, which seek to abolish methane and to make fundamental changes to the ammonia standards.
in writing. ‒ the european commission has proposed the adoption of a directive of the european parliament and of the council on the reduction of national emissions of certain atmospheric pollutants and amending directive 2003/35/ec. the commission proposal repeals and replaces the current directive on national emission limit values and sets new limit values for emissions of volatile organic compounds other than sulphur dioxide, nitrogen oxides, ammonia and methane for 2020 and 2030 respectively, and extends the scope of the directive to particulate matter (pm2,5) from 2020 and methane from 2030. parliament, in its report to the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, tabled 118 amendments to the proposal, but recommended the proposal to parliament for adoption. i voted on the motion accordingly.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report because i believe that air pollution is a real problem and the draft proposes real solutions to create cleaner air. high levels of air pollution are estimated to be responsible for some 400 000 premature deaths in the eu each year, while the indirect harmful effects are unpredictable. i believe that the rate of emission of pollutants should be radically reduced. the commission is also proposing to introduce a new directive on the emission of pollutants from transport by road. the setting of the 2020 and 2030 commitments for so2, nox, nmvoc and ammonia (nh3), as well as fine particulate matter (pm2,5) and methane (ch4) for new member states is a major responsibility, but in my view also an opportunity. member states should set up a national air pollution control programme and monitor it every two years, but this could save hundreds of thousands of lives. they can also save money that they can easily spend on developing renewable, environmentally friendly technologies.
in writing. ‒ in the three years since the european citizens' initiative was set up as a new institution under the lisbon treaty, it has achieved a remarkable success: three out of 51 initiatives have met expectations 1 million signatures of support from 7 member states. the schöpflin report identifies the reasons for this procedural failure and makes suggestions, including better communication of the tool, creation of more user-friendly interfaces, simpler data requests, budget support, direct advice, and facilitating digital citizen participation, facilitating the participation of millions of citizens in an eu-wide initiative by building a digital citizenship of the union. the rapporteur emphasises the need to raise awareness of the initiative to a wider audience, as this tool is designed to directly involve citizens in european institutional decision-making. the report seeks to confirm this connection. i agreed with the report and called on the commission to review its existing rules of procedure.
in writing. ‒ in the three years since the european citizens' initiative was set up as a new institution under the lisbon treaty, it has achieved a remarkable success: three out of 51 initiatives have met expectations 1 million signatures of support from 7 member states. the schöpflin report identifies the reasons for this procedural failure and makes suggestions, including better communication of the tool, creation of more user-friendly interfaces, simpler data requests, budget support, direct advice, and facilitating digital citizen participation, facilitating the participation of millions of citizens in an eu-wide initiative by developing an eu digital citizenship. the rapporteur emphasises the need to raise awareness of the initiative to a wider audience, as this tool is designed to directly involve citizens in european institutional decision-making. the report seeks to confirm this connection. i agreed with the report and called on the commission to review its existing rules of procedure.
in writing. in the three years since the european citizens' initiative was set up as a new institution under the lisbon treaty, it has achieved a remarkable success: three out of 51 initiatives have met expectations 1 million signatures of support from 7 member states. the schöpflin report identifies the reasons for this procedural failure and makes suggestions, including better communication of the tool, creation of more user-friendly interfaces, simpler data requests, budget support, direct advice, and facilitating digital citizen participation, facilitating the participation of millions of citizens in an eu-wide initiative by developing an eu digital citizenship. the rapporteur emphasises the need to raise awareness of the initiative to a wider audience, as this tool is designed to directly involve citizens in european institutional decision-making. the report seeks to confirm this connection. i agreed with the report and called on the commission to review its existing rules of procedure.
in writing. ‒ in the three years since the european citizens' initiative was set up as a new institution under the lisbon treaty, it has achieved a remarkable success: three out of 51 initiatives have met expectations 1 million signatures of support from 7 member states. the schöpflin report identifies the reasons for this procedural failure and makes suggestions, including better communication of the tool, creation of more user-friendly interfaces, simpler data requests, budget support, direct advice, and facilitating digital citizen participation, facilitating the participation of millions of citizens in an eu-wide initiative by developing an eu digital citizenship. the rapporteur emphasises the need to raise awareness of the initiative to a wider audience, as this tool is designed to directly involve citizens in european institutional decision-making. the report seeks to confirm this connection. i agreed with the report and called on the commission to review its existing rules of procedure.
in writing. ‒ the main objective of the report is to improve the functioning of the european citizens' initiative in order to make it more user-friendly and to remove some of the obstacles that have already proven to cause difficulties for the organisers of the european citizens' initiative. admittedly, some of these problems were not foreseeable, but the experience of the last three years offers an opportunity for innovation. the commission is likely to launch a full review of the european citizens' initiative in 2016, and the way in which parliament's position on the instrument will be shaped will be mainly by passing on from the bottom up the views of those who wanted to take advantage of the european citizens' initiative. i welcome the consistent, fair and equal treatment of the various european citizens' initiatives during hearings.
in writing. ‒ in the three years since the european citizens' initiative was set up as a new institution under the lisbon treaty, it has achieved a remarkable success: three out of 51 initiatives have met expectations 1 million signatures of support from 7 member states. the schöpflin report identifies the reasons for this procedural failure and makes new proposals such as better communication, the creation of more user-friendly interfaces, simpler data requests, budget support, direct advice and the promotion of digital citizen participation. these instruments will facilitate the participation of millions of citizens in the eu-wide initiative. the rapporteur emphasises the need to raise awareness of the initiative to a wider audience, as the european citizens' initiative aims to directly involve citizens in european institutional decision-making. the report seeks to confirm this connection. i agreed with the report and called on the commission to review its existing rules of procedure.
in writing. ‒ in the three years since the european citizens' initiative was set up as a new institution under the lisbon treaty, it has not been a success story. of the 51 initiatives, three met the requirements 1 million signatures of support from 7 member states. the schöpflin report identifies the reasons for this procedural failure and makes recommendations. this includes better communication of the tool, the creation of more user-friendly interfaces, simpler data requests, budget support, direct advice and facilitating digital citizen participation, facilitating the participation of millions of citizens in an eu-wide initiative through the creation of a so-called eu digital citizenship. the rapporteur emphasises the need to raise awareness of the initiative to a wider audience, as this tool is designed to directly involve citizens in european institutional decision-making. the document seeks to confirm this connection. i agreed with the report and called on the commission to review its existing rules of procedure.
in writing. ‒ the european citizens' initiative was created as a tool to give european citizens the opportunity to participate in the launching of legislative initiatives. the commission's report on the first three years of the institution reports on 51 such initiatives, but none resulted in legislation. the main objective of the report of parliament's committee on constitutional affairs is to improve the functioning of the european citizens' initiative and to remove some of the obstacles that have already proven to cause difficulties for the organisers of the european citizens' initiative. i supported the motion.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report because it criticises the current shortcomings of the legal institution of the european citizens' initiative, based on experience, and also contains a number of proposals for changes to make the system more effective, to give european citizens a genuine direct democratic experience and to produce concrete european legislation. for my part, i regard the european citizens' initiative as a potentially very important institution of european direct democracy, whose results so far have been disappointing, partly because of the lack of regulation, partly because of the lack of cooperation between member states, partly because of the restrictive approach of the commission to the reception of initiatives. i agree with the report that the possible direction of improvement is not to amend the treaty but to apply the current rules more flexibly, more closely to citizens and users, and to improve communication between the commission and the governments of the member states. to achieve this, the report provides a number of useful elements, which the european parliament will need to monitor in the future. in considering the importance of this issue, it was also important for me, as a hungarian representative, to note that in my country the government is currently pursuing a policy aimed at establishing direct democracy and making the institution of the referendum impossible; i hope that the better functioning of the european citizens' initiative will provide a positive european example that will help to prevent this aspiration.
in writing. ‒ as a new institution created under the treaty, it has not had a breakthrough: three out of 51 initiatives have met expectations 1 million signatures of support from 7 member states. the schöpflin report identifies the reasons for this procedural failure and makes suggestions, including better communication of the tool, creation of more user-friendly interfaces, simpler data requests, budget support, direct advice, and facilitating digital citizen participation, facilitating the participation of millions of citizens in an eu-wide initiative by developing an eu digital citizenship. the rapporteur emphasises the need to raise awareness of the initiative to a wider audience, as this tool is designed to directly involve citizens in european institutional decision-making. the report seeks to confirm this connection. i agreed with the report and called on the commission to review its existing rules of procedure.
in writing. ‒ the european citizens' initiative has its roots in the convention and was created as a tool to give european citizens the opportunity to participate in the launching of legislative initiatives. the idea behind this instrument is therefore to mobilise civil society and strengthen european civic engagement, particularly on a transnational basis, once it has entered into force. the main objective of the report was to improve the functioning of the european citizens' initiative, to make it more user-friendly, and i supported it.
in writing. ‒ in december 2012, the european council invited the commission to present its vision for a new strategy for the adriatic and ionian sea (eusair) before the end of 2014, and the commission presented its draft strategy accordingly on 17 june 2014. eusair is the third eu macro-regional strategy to build on the experience of the baltic and danube strategies. the adriatic and ionian region is home to over 70 million people and covers eight countries, including four eu member states (croatia, greece, italy, slovenia), three candidate countries (albania, montenegro, serbia) and bosnia and herzegovina as a potential candidate country. i voted in favour of the draft report in the plenary vote, as eusair provides a good opportunity for the countries of the region to promote sustainable development. the strategy's pillars (blue growth, development of the region's infrastructure links, environmental protection, sustainable and competitive tourism) and other priorities (eu integration of the western balkan countries, ensuring coherence between the three eu macro-regional strategies and national strategic projects) promote economic development and job creation. however, i think it is important to emphasise that for each macro-regional strategy an overall assessment of the results is needed. it is necessary to ensure that the strategies represent a genuine european added value and have a real, tangible positive impact in the region concerned.
in writing. ‒ in december 2012, the european council invited the commission to present its vision for a new strategy for the adriatic and ionian sea (eusair) before the end of 2014, and the commission presented its draft strategy accordingly on 17 june 2014. eusair is the third eu macro-regional strategy to build on the experience of the baltic and danube strategies. the adriatic and ionian region is home to over 70 million people and covers eight countries, including four eu member states (croatia, greece, italy, slovenia), three candidate countries (albania, montenegro, serbia) and bosnia and herzegovina as a potential candidate country. i voted in favour of the draft report in the plenary vote, as eusair provides a good opportunity for the countries of the region to promote sustainable development. the strategy's pillars (blue growth, development of the region's infrastructure links, environmental protection, sustainable and competitive tourism) and other priorities (eu integration of the western balkan countries, ensuring coherence between the three eu macro-regional strategies and national strategic projects) promote economic development and job creation. however, i think it is important to emphasise that for each macro-regional strategy an overall assessment of the results is needed. it is necessary to ensure that the strategies represent a genuine european added value and have a real, tangible positive impact in the region concerned.
in writing. in december 2012, the european council invited the commission to present its vision for a new strategy for the adriatic and ionian sea (eusair) before the end of 2014, and the commission presented its draft strategy accordingly on 17 june 2014. eusair is the third eu macro-regional strategy to build on the experience of the baltic and danube strategies. the adriatic and ionian region is home to over 70 million people and covers eight countries, including four eu member states (croatia, greece, italy, slovenia), three candidate countries (albania, montenegro, serbia) and bosnia and herzegovina as a potential candidate country. i voted in favour of the draft report in the plenary vote, as eusair provides a good opportunity for the countries of the region to promote sustainable development. the strategy's pillars (blue growth, development of the region's infrastructure links, environmental protection, sustainable and competitive tourism) and other priorities (eu integration of the western balkan countries, ensuring coherence between the three eu macro-regional strategies and national strategic projects) promote economic development and job creation. however, i think it is important to emphasise that for each macro-regional strategy an overall assessment of the results is needed. it is necessary to ensure that the strategies represent a genuine european added value and have a real, tangible positive impact in the region concerned.
in writing. ‒ in december 2012, the european council invited the commission to present its vision for a new strategy for the adriatic and ionian sea (eusair) before the end of 2014, and the commission presented its draft strategy accordingly on 17 june 2014. eusair is the third eu macro-regional strategy to build on the experience of the baltic and danube strategies. the adriatic and ionian region is home to over 70 million people and covers eight countries, including four eu member states (croatia, greece, italy, slovenia), three candidate countries (albania, montenegro, serbia) and bosnia and herzegovina as a potential candidate country. i voted in favour of the draft report in the plenary vote, as eusair provides a good opportunity for the countries of the region to promote sustainable development. the strategy's pillars (blue growth, development of the region's infrastructure links, environmental protection, sustainable and competitive tourism) and other priorities (eu integration of the western balkan countries, ensuring coherence between the three eu macro-regional strategies and national strategic projects) promote economic development and job creation. however, i think it is important to emphasise that for each macro-regional strategy an overall assessment of the results is needed. it is necessary to ensure that the strategies represent a genuine european added value and have a real, tangible positive impact in the region concerned.
in writing. ‒ i supported the report because the adriatic and ionian region has enormous potential, which can only be exploited through the joint and coordinated efforts of all the countries in the region, with a significant involvement of local and regional authorities. the commission should play a special role through guidelines and support in the implementation of the strategy. i welcome the priorities to give priority to adapting to resource-efficient fishing and to boosting the production and consumption of fishery products. furthermore, research and development and innovation applied to the maritime sector, and strengthening of blue research, innovation and skills, together with investments in human resources development, will require increased attention.
in writing. ‒ in december 2012, the european council invited the commission to present its vision for a new strategy for the adriatic and ionian sea (eusair) before the end of 2014. accordingly, on 17 june 2014, the commission presented its draft strategy. eusair is the third eu macro-regional strategy to build on the experience of the baltic and danube strategies. the adriatic and ionian region is home to over 70 million people and covers eight countries, four of which are already eu member states (croatia, greece, italy, slovenia), three candidate countries (albania, montenegro, serbia), and one potential candidate country (bosnia and herzegovina). i voted in favour of the draft report in the plenary vote, as eusair provides a good opportunity for the countries of the region to promote sustainable development. the strategy's pillars (blue growth, development of the region's infrastructure links, environmental protection, sustainable and competitive tourism) and other priorities (eu integration of the western balkan countries, ensuring coherence between the three eu macro-regional strategies and national strategic projects) promote economic development and job creation. however, i think it is important to emphasise that for each macro-regional strategy an overall assessment of the results is needed. it is necessary to ensure that the strategies represent a genuine european value and have a real, tangible positive impact in the region concerned.
in writing. ‒ in december 2012, the european council invited the commission to present a new european union strategy for the adriatic and ionian region (eusair) by the end of 2014. the commission presented eusair on 17 june 2014. eusair is the third eu macro-regional policy after the eu strategies for the baltic sea region and the danube basin region. the strategy is based on cooperation within the region, notably the adriatic and ionian initiative launched in 2000 with the signing of the ancona declaration and the creation in 2006 of the adriatic and ionian euroregion, bringing together 26 regional and local authorities from the seven participating countries. eusair covers eight countries, and the region is home to over 70 million people. according to the motion for a resolution tabled by parliament's committee on regional development, eusair offers a unique opportunity for the region to overcome past economic and political problems through cooperation, guided by the commission, and to pursue prosperity and sustainable development. it shows that the region has enormous potential, which can only be exploited through the joint and coordinated efforts of all the countries in the region, with a significant involvement of local and regional authorities. it considers that eusair will prove to be of historic importance both for the participating countries and for the union as a whole.
in writing. ‒ in december 2012, the european council invited the commission to present its vision for a new strategy for the adriatic and ionian sea (eusair) before the end of 2014, and the commission presented its draft strategy accordingly on 17 june 2014. eusair is the third eu macro-regional strategy to build on the experience of the baltic and danube strategies. the adriatic and ionian region is home to over 70 million people and covers eight countries, including four eu member states (croatia, greece, italy, slovenia), three candidate countries (albania, montenegro, serbia) and bosnia and herzegovina as a potential candidate country. i voted in favour of the draft report in the plenary vote, as eusair provides a good opportunity for the countries of the region to promote sustainable development. the strategy's pillars (blue growth, development of the region's infrastructure links, environmental protection, sustainable and competitive tourism) and other priorities (eu integration of the western balkan countries, ensuring coherence between the three eu macro-regional strategies and national strategic projects) promote economic development and job creation. however, i think it is important to emphasise that for each macro-regional strategy an overall assessment of the results is needed. it is necessary to ensure that the strategies represent a genuine european added value and have a real, tangible positive impact in the region concerned.
in writing. ‒ the european council of december 2012 invited the commission to present a new european union strategy for the adriatic and ionian region (eusair) by the end of 2014. the commission duly complied with that request and communicated eusair on 17 june 2014. i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ the report makes concrete proposals for the review of cohesion policy and the eu 2020 strategy, assesses their current functioning and identifies future challenges. it also stresses the importance of a close link between the two: eu 2020 serves as a strategic framework for the design and programming of the european structural and investment funds for the period 2014-2020. the report highlights, in some points, certain elements of the strategy and cohesion policy, and makes recommendations, criticisms and suggestions to the commission, in part to provide guidance for the commission's review of the eu 2020 strategy before the end of 2015. although the report contains some positive ideas (positive emphasis on the role of cohesion policy as one of the main instruments to promote investment, encouragement of multi-level governance with the involvement of local and regional authorities), i did not support its adoption. cohesion policy is the most important tool for overcoming regional disparities. as a peripheral country, we would be lucky if the eu sought to address the problems of the region by adapting the cohesion policy instruments to the specific needs of the region as best as possible. instead, the purple fog aligns cohesion policy with the eu 2020 'imperial' objectives.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on cohesion policy and the review of the europe 2020 strategy at the european parliament's plenary session in strasbourg. the report emphasises the crucial role of cohesion policy in achieving the objectives of the europe 2020 strategy. cohesion policy is the only eu policy that contributes to all three europe 2020 objectives of smart, sustainable and inclusive growth through its 11 thematic objectives, which are aligned with the five europe 2020 headline targets. the role of cohesion policy in the 2008 crisis, in particular the fact that it was able to continue to finance investments in the face of a sharp reduction in public funding, confirms the long-term relevance of the policy and demonstrates its resilience to external influences. given that the implementation of the 2014-2020 cycle has only just begun, it would not be effective to make substantial changes to cohesion policy in the europe 2020 strategy review this year or in the mff review next year. i agree with the rapporteur that the mid-term review of the europe 2020 strategy should be limited and focus on possible ways of better implementation without further increasing the administrative burden.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on cohesion policy and the review of the europe 2020 strategy at the european parliament's plenary session in strasbourg. the report emphasises the crucial role of cohesion policy in achieving the objectives of the europe 2020 strategy. cohesion policy is the only eu policy that contributes to all three europe 2020 objectives of smart, sustainable and inclusive growth through its 11 thematic objectives, which are aligned with the five europe 2020 headline targets. the role of cohesion policy in the 2008 crisis, in particular the fact that it was able to continue to finance investments in the face of a sharp reduction in public funding, confirms the long-term relevance of the policy and demonstrates its resilience to external influences. given that the implementation of the 2014-2020 cycle has only just begun, it would not be effective to make substantial changes to cohesion policy in the europe 2020 strategy review this year or in the mff review next year. i agree with the rapporteur that the mid-term review of the europe 2020 strategy should be limited and focus on possible ways of better implementation without further increasing the administrative burden.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on cohesion policy and the review of the europe 2020 strategy at the european parliament's plenary session in strasbourg. the report emphasises the crucial role of cohesion policy in achieving the objectives of the europe 2020 strategy. cohesion policy is the only eu policy that contributes to all three europe 2020 objectives of smart, sustainable and inclusive growth through its 11 thematic objectives, which are aligned with the five europe 2020 headline targets. the role of cohesion policy in the 2008 crisis, in particular the fact that it was able to continue to finance investments in the face of a sharp reduction in public funding, confirms the long-term relevance of the policy and demonstrates its resilience to external influences. given that the implementation of the 2014-2020 cycle has only just begun, it would not be effective to make substantial changes to cohesion policy in the europe 2020 strategy review this year or in the mff review next year. i agree with the rapporteur that the mid-term review of the europe 2020 strategy should be limited and focus on possible ways of better implementation without further increasing the administrative burden.
in writing. ‒ i welcome the rapporteur's position in the light of the fact that cohesion policy is one of the key tools for implementing the europe 2020 strategy. it will continue to make a positive and significant contribution to the europe 2020 strategy objectives of smart, sustainable and inclusive growth. cohesion policy contributed to the achievement of the objectives of the europe 2020 strategy during the previous programming period, 2007-2013, as demonstrated by the results of the sixth report on economic, social and territorial cohesion. moreover, cohesion policy is the main financial instrument of the union's contribution to the objectives of the eu 2020 strategy. it continues to consider it important, in the context of multilevel governance, to have a genuine territorial approach to europe 2020 and in this regard stresses the need to adapt the regional objectives of europe 2020 to the specificities of each region. it is also necessary to take into account that the different regions have different realities and characteristics and thus set themselves different development objectives within the member states, and that qualitative analysis and evaluation are required. when the objectives of different regions within a member state are identical, the implementation of the strategy may produce asymmetrical results. i agree with the rapporteur that region-specific objectives can be a solution to this problem.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on cohesion policy and the review of the europe 2020 strategy at the european parliament's plenary session in strasbourg. the report emphasises the crucial role of cohesion policy in achieving the objectives of the europe 2020 strategy. cohesion policy is the only eu policy that contributes to all three europe 2020 objectives of smart, sustainable and inclusive growth through its 11 thematic objectives, which are aligned with the five europe 2020 headline targets. the role of cohesion policy in the 2008 crisis, in particular the fact that it was able to continue to finance investments in the face of a sharp reduction in public funding, confirms the long-term relevance of the policy and demonstrates its resilience to external influences. given that the implementation of the 2014-2020 cycle has only just begun, it would not be effective to make substantial changes to cohesion policy in the europe 2020 strategy review this year or in the mff review next year. i agree with the rapporteur that the mid-term review of the europe 2020 strategy should be limited and focus on possible ways of better implementation without further increasing the administrative burden.
in writing. ‒ cohesion policy accounts for more than one third of the union's budget and is the eu's main investment instrument. it is closely aligned with the europe 2020 targets for smart, sustainable and inclusive growth. the commission is currently working on a mid-term review of the strategy and is expected to present proposals for further development of the strategy by the end of 2015. the report by parliament's committee on regional development focuses on the cohesion policy dimension of the europe 2020 strategy. as cohesion policy for the period 2014-2020 is fully aligned with and contributes to the objectives of the strategy, the report argues that the results achieved so far, the scope of the review and the challenges to be addressed from the perspective of cohesion policy should be taken into account. i supported the motion for a resolution.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution because i believe that cohesion policy is the eu's main investment and development policy, in line with the objectives of the europe 2020 strategy for smart, sustainable and inclusive growth, and which aims to reduce inequalities between regions and promote convergence. that's why it's important that we have our say on the review. the report highlights the principle of multi-level governance, the integrated approach and the importance of transparency. i hope that civil society will be involved in the implementation. i think we should avoid the anti-eu practice of the hungarian government, for example, which distributes eu funds to its friends on purely political grounds. this is no less a problem than the misuse of common resources, since instead of cohesion, for example, in hungary more than 4 million people live below the poverty line and more than 500 000 people are hungry. i find that regrettable and unacceptable.
in writing. ‒ cohesion policy accounts for more than one third of the union's budget and is the eu's main investment instrument. it is closely aligned with the europe 2020 targets for smart, sustainable and inclusive growth. the commission is currently working on a mid-term review of the strategy and is expected to present proposals for further development of the strategy by the end of 2015. this is the process that the present report, which i supported, is in.
in writing. ‒ the proposal contains recommendations for article 23 of the regulation on the european structural and investment funds. under article 23, the commission may request a member state to review its partnership agreement or any of its programmes and, if the member state in the commission's view does not take effective action, may propose to the council that it suspend all or part of the payments made for the programmes or priorities concerned. parliament shall endeavour to ensure that such measures are taken only in the most justified cases and in the most balanced manner possible. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy. it also notes that in certain areas it considers the suspension of aid to be particularly counterproductive. the report also recommends that parliament be involved in the adoption of a decision or proposal on the eve of a possible rescheduling or suspension. on these grounds, i supported the report.
in writing. ‒ i supported the report on the european structural and investment funds and good economic governance: guidelines for the implementation of article 23 of the common provisions regulation during the plenary vote in strasbourg. article 23 is probably the most debated part of the common provisions regulation. the european parliament's report recommended that all provisions on the macroeconomic conditionality be deleted from the text, but the macroeconomic conditionality was nevertheless included in the final text of the common provisions. the josé blanco lópez report only concerns the first part of article 23 (optional reprogramming, optional suspension of payments from the structural and investment funds). the european commission also recognises that reprogramming should be strictly limited to the minimum necessary and that the application of article 23 should take into account the specific economic and social situation of the member state. the application of the macroeconomic conditionality should be justified and advantageous for the achievement of the cohesion policy objectives for the region or regions concerned. it is unacceptable that local and regional authorities should be penalised by reprogramming or suspending funds because the macroeconomic conditions are not met at other levels of administration. the european parliament should play an active role in monitoring the application of article 23 on common provisions, which requires a constant, reliable flow of information between all actors concerned and full transparency at all stages of the process of possible application.
in writing. i supported the report on the european structural and investment funds and on good economic governance: guidelines for the implementation of article 23 of the common provisions regulation during the plenary vote in strasbourg. article 23 is probably the most debated part of the common provisions regulation. the european parliament's report recommended that all provisions on the macroeconomic conditionality be deleted from the text, but the macroeconomic conditionality was nevertheless included in the final text of the common provisions. the josé blanco lópez report only concerns the first part of article 23 (optional reprogramming, optional suspension of payments from the structural and investment funds). the european commission also recognises that reprogramming should be strictly limited to the minimum necessary and that the application of article 23 should take into account the specific economic and social situation of the member state. the application of the macroeconomic conditionality should be justified and advantageous for the achievement of the cohesion policy objectives for the region or regions concerned. it is unacceptable that local and regional authorities should be penalised by reprogramming or suspending funds because the macroeconomic conditions are not met at other levels of administration. the european parliament should play an active role in monitoring the application of article 23 on common provisions, which requires a constant, reliable flow of information between all actors concerned and full transparency at all stages of the process of possible application.
in writing. ‒ i supported the report on the european structural and investment funds and on good economic governance: guidelines for the implementation of article 23 of the common provisions regulation during the plenary vote in strasbourg. article 23 is probably the most debated part of the common provisions regulation. the european parliament's report recommended that all provisions on the macroeconomic conditionality be deleted from the text, but the macroeconomic conditionality was nevertheless included in the final text of the common provisions. the josé blanco lópez report only concerns the first part of article 23 (optional reprogramming, optional suspension of payments from the structural and investment funds). the european commission also recognises that reprogramming should be strictly limited to the minimum necessary and that the application of article 23 should take into account the specific economic and social situation of the member state. the application of the macroeconomic conditionality should be justified and advantageous for the achievement of the cohesion policy objectives for the region or regions concerned. it is unacceptable that local and regional authorities should be penalised by reprogramming or suspending funds because the macroeconomic conditions are not met at other levels of administration. the european parliament should play an active role in monitoring the application of article 23 on common provisions, which requires a constant, reliable flow of information between all actors concerned and full transparency at all stages of the process of possible application.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report because, during the current programming period, cohesion policy is closely linked to the objectives of the europe 2020 strategy and to economic governance mechanisms such as the european semester. this means that the partnership agreements and programmes to be implemented during that period should in principle already be consistent with the union's broader macroeconomic objectives, which means that reprogramming under the cpr is unnecessary and can only take place in exceptional circumstances. i welcome the priority given to the principles of subsidiarity, transparency and proportionality, and the subsidiary dimension of cohesion policy must also be safeguarded. finally, we need to limit the possible additional administrative burdens and costs that the application of article 23 of the cpr may entail. in agreement with the rapporteur, parliament should play an active role in monitoring the application of article 23 of the common provisions regulation, which requires a constant and reliable flow of information between all the actors involved and full transparency at all stages of the process.
in writing. ‒ i supported the report on the european structural and investment funds and on good economic governance: guidelines for the implementation of article 23 of the common provisions regulation during the plenary vote in strasbourg. article 23 is probably the most debated part of the common provisions regulation. the european parliament's report recommended that all provisions on the macroeconomic conditionality be deleted from the text, but the macroeconomic conditionality was nevertheless included in the final text of the common provisions. the josé blanco lópez report only concerns the first part of article 23 (optional reprogramming, optional suspension of payments from the structural and investment funds). the european commission also recognises that reprogramming should be strictly limited to the minimum necessary and that the application of article 23 should take into account the specific economic and social situation of the member state. the application of the macroeconomic conditionality should be justified and advantageous for the achievement of the cohesion policy objectives for the region or regions concerned. it is unacceptable that local and regional authorities should be penalised by reprogramming or suspending funds because the macroeconomic conditions are not met at other levels of administration. the european parliament should play an active role in monitoring the application of article 23 on common provisions, which requires a constant, reliable flow of information between all actors concerned and full transparency at all stages of the process of possible application.
in writing. ‒ the rules laid down in article 23 of the regulation adopted during the previous legislative cycle on measures linking the effectiveness of the european structural and investment (esi) funds and sound economic governance are rather contradictory. in their report to the european parliament on the common provisions regulation, the co-tax authorities recommended that all provisions on macroeconomic conditionality be deleted. the same was proposed in the amendment tabled by several groups in parliament. opponents of macroeconomic conditionality were in the majority. however, it appears that the macroeconomic conditionality was eventually retained in the regulation. if the regulation is adopted at first reading by agreement between parliament, the council and the commission, no vote shall be taken on the proposals for amendments to repeal it. parliament's committee on regional development stresses that this own-initiative report is not suitable for either repealing or amending the provisions of article 23 of the common provisions regulation. it is only intended to ensure that they are applied in the most reasonable and balanced way possible. i supported the motion for a resolution.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report because i believe that economic governance mechanisms should not impede the achievement of the objectives of the esf funds and that they actually contribute to the stability of the macroeconomic environment and to an effective and results-oriented cohesion policy. i agree that good governance and effective public institutions are fundamental to sustainable and long-term economic growth, job creation and social and territorial development, but little attention has been paid to macroeconomic factors that affect the way cohesion policy operates. i share the view that the european parliament should be the first democratic body to guarantee the correct application of the provisions of the regulation on common provisions on macroeconomic conditionality. i consider it important to ensure transparency and to give greater weight to control and review, while opposing any measure which disproportionately increases the administrative burden and the resulting costs at any level of the administration concerned.
in writing. ‒ the rules laid down in article 23 of the regulation on common provisions adopted during the previous legislative cycle on measures linking the effectiveness of the esf and sound economic governance are probably the most contradictory aspect of the regulation. i supported the report on this today.
in writing.– we must not forget that our european external borders are being crossed daily by hundreds of thousands of travellers such as tourists and business people, who arrive at the proper border crossings with the appropriate documents. they are growing in number and they are a precious resource to our member states. free movement of persons is one of the most important achievements of the european union since its foundation. the absence of internal borders makes it therefore crucially important that our common external borders are controlled reliably and consistently. in order to better manage the growing flow of travellers, we need to modernise the european border control system, by increasing its efficiency and effectiveness. the result should be smooth and easy travel for the majority of third country travellers who cross the european borders yearly on one side, and an impossible mission for those who abuse free movement, such as organised crime and terrorist organisations, on the other side. i trust that the establishment of an efficient and cost effective integrated management system for external borders will serve the safety of our citizens and support the work of our law enforcement authorities.
the rapporteur. officer, my colleagues. i am pleased that, just one year after the start of the legislative process, the european parliament will hold a final vote on the new cepol regulation tomorrow. i would like to thank all the shadow rapporteurs for the smooth running of the process, in particular mrs flasikova-benova, whose support and cooperation were of great help during the negotiations. i also have great appreciation for the work of the latvian presidency, with special thanks to mrs indra bule, whose constructive approach and proactive approach helped the trilateral negotiations to proceed. we all know that the union's internal security has been facing serious challenges in recent times and we can expect similar challenges in the future. this is why we urgently need properly trained law enforcement agencies, law enforcement agencies that are able to respond quickly and effectively at a pan-european level to challenges such as cross-border crime, cybercrime, terrorism. we need policemen who can act with full professionalism in today's migration crisis. cepol can thus serve as a tool to consolidate a culture of professionalism among professional police officers, and to strengthen mutual trust and cross-border cooperation between member states. it can contribute to the creation of a genuine european policing culture based on respect for fundamental rights and european values. we in parliament therefore believe that a modernised, efficient, autonomous and adequately staffed cepol agency is essential. in the negotiations with the co-legislators, it remained important that cepol's basic structure its reliance on and close cooperation with the national police academies remain unchanged. cepol had to be given the powers and mandate required by the treaties as soon as possible. the governance structure of cepol has been made operational, taking into account the proposals made during the debate on the new europol regulatory framework. we believe that with this new regulation we have created the conditions for cepol to contribute to building a genuine european culture of law enforcement. this new regulation, which is about to be voted on, will modernise cepol's legal basis. it aligns it with the amendment to the treaty of lisbon and entrusts cepol with the implementation of the principles of the law enforcement and police training programme proposed by the commission in march 2013. this should include an assessment of the strategic training needs at union level, the accreditation of training, the sharing of common curricula, the sharing of positive examples and the identification of the minimum knowledge to be included in the curriculum of each police academy. cepol should therefore be able to provide training and trainers at union level. in recent years, cepol has been seen as a network. a network is not a legal entity and cannot be held accountable. this is precisely why cepol needed to become a union agency with clear mandates, tasks, responsibilities and, most importantly, accountability. as regards the use of taxpayers' money, cepol has come a long way to prove its cost-effectiveness. you've increased your training enrollment fivefold, and the demand for your training is growing, and it's going to be worth adjusting your budget to meet that. we will therefore continue to work to ensure adequate resources, which are a necessary precondition for a well-functioning eu agency, and to eliminate overlaps with other eu institutions. that's why i'm asking for your support in voting for this institution tomorrow.
it's a two-card draw. i've honestly been through this debate several times, why this agency should or should not be in budapest. i am hungarian, so i am probably a bit biased in that sense, but i would like to say frankly that in this stereotype of what an agency is like, practically everything could sooner or later be taken to brussels, the hague, anywhere, even the strasbourg parliament to brussels, so let's face it that there has to be a distribution, a division between agencies.
i would like to ask the representative of the european commission here today - i am very glad that he can speak hungarian, because he is not wearing an interpreter, so he will understand what i am saying - how much exactly does it cost the european taxpayer to fight organised crime across borders, whether in the form of cepol or europol, and what does he get in return? because what we're seeing is that cross-border crime, organized crime is doing very, very well, thriving. what many people call the migration crisis or the refugee crisis, in criminal law terms, is the flourishing of organized crime, the flourishing of human trafficking despite the existence of cepol, europol and other agencies. what explanation does the representative of the european commission have for this? i'm waiting for your answer.
the rapporteur. officer, colleagues! this debate has shown, and i thank you for your comments, that after a great deal of struggle and coordination of different positions, we have arrived at a result. however, they should take into account that the new rules will finally put an end to the uncertainties that have cast a shadow over cepol in recent years. as you may recall, cepol had to find a new headquarters in bramshill, rather than the old one. in addition, the commission proposed that cepol and europol be merged in order to save costs. cepol was thus temporarily without a headquarters, but its very existence was called into question. as regards merger, as you all know, because we voted on it here, the european parliament and the council have firmly rejected the commission's proposal on merger. as regards the headquarters, several member states have offered to host cepol. budapest was finally chosen after hungary made the best offer. we all know that we need professionally trained police officers, especially now, in these times, who are able to respond quickly and effectively at a pan-european level. we have laid the foundations for this with this new regulation and we can create the conditions for cepol to contribute to the creation of a genuine european culture of law enforcement. i think that's what we need, in terms of efficiency, in terms of effective action against cross-border crime. and i would like to thank once again all the shadow rapporteurs, the advisers and the libe secretariat for their dedicated work, as we are after a fruitful series of negotiations.
i didn't want to speak to this debate in the first place, because i've spoken to this debate so many times on snowden, and we've spoken so many times on the point that edward snowden has established, practically at the risk of his life, that in western democracies, intelligence tools are used to monitor masses of citizens, to listen to them, to read their emails, to collect data about them, and then, through what's called data mining, to arbitrarily, when business interests, economic interests or political interests demand it, to misuse that data. why did i ask for a word? i was on my lunch break talking to someone about the bela kovács case. i told him that i still can't get over the fact that an elected official was being watched and bugged and all that for four years by intelligence agencies, and when they realized that they couldn't pin hacking here or there on any crime, they created one in retrospect. officer, this is mr. moraes. could we, the elected members of the european parliament, be listening to our secret services? i'm waiting for your answer and how this is possible!
indeed, the wolves are already in our courtyard. i would remind the commissioner that in my country, hungary, the government of viktor orbán, in the midst of its crackdown on so-called illegal migrants, has already introduced a series of measures that severely restrict the rights of hungarian citizens and are aimed at creating a police state. now, under the pretext of protecting public order, it has announced a further package of measures that would include almost unlimited police surveillance of private communications and even a general facial recognition system that is not tied to a specific law enforcement purpose for the entire population. officer, madam president, please. it's in a european union country today, and viktor orbán is using it to monitor opposition organizations. today, crowds of people are saying they refuse to participate in demonstrations because the next day they are faced with police retaliation precisely because of mass surveillance. please take care of this.
the committee on the internal market and consumer protection has delivered its opinion. as rapporteur of the imco committee, i would like to begin by thanking mr rosati for his work. you did a great job. overall, this european semester - i agree with the commissioner - has come a long way since its inception, it has evolved a lot, and we are now slowly reaching our goal. however, there are key priorities that would be better focused on, such as the internal market as a substantial reserve and, in my view, the strengthening of the internal market pillar, which should also be reflected in this report. we focus on increasing economic growth, but we talk very little about our biggest reserve, the reserve for the functioning of the internal market. however, i am glad that the sme and even the lack of funding, which is still a pressing problem, were mentioned. i'm glad the fsi came out as an alternative tool. i would like to see an alternative tool for smes that would be much more effective. in sum, i can say that for tangible progress it would be much better to present the internal market in a more definite and better way. that's been left out, but i hope the next report will have more on that.
it's a two-card draw. i signed up because i feel very, very similarly and quite vehemently that we have to say that we are dissatisfied. because seeing this debate, listening to the comments and reading everything that you have had to read in the preparatory material for the european semester, i see that europe and the european member states do not seem to realise how difficult our situation is. and i am thinking particularly of the fact that, for example, in reducing unemployment, in the development plans of each member state for the coming year, it seems as if we do not want to make progress. i'm asking you to continue what you've just begun to say, because i'm curious to see how you'd push this process forward.
it's a two-card draw. you are, too, although you emphatically mention that there is some economic growth in europe, if i understand you correctly. i would be a little more careful here and criticize the report for that, because to say things like this about economic growth seemingly starting, i think that's an unnecessary optimism, especially with regard to the other statements in the report. i think you'll agree with me.
the eu institutions claim to want to be close to the people. then why do they use the term "european semester"? what does that say to the average person? call it what it is. this is the central approval of the member state budget. as a member of the hungarian parliament, as a member of the eu affairs committee, i learned about the so-called convergence programme when the government had already sent it to brussels. and when we get it back at the end of the semester, it's basically the budget numbers. this system deprives the parliaments of sovereign countries of their budgetary rights. the rapporteur is surprised that the country-specific recommendations are not being followed. because they're not really specific. the union wants to impose the same economic policy on all countries, not to give the opportunity to real economic policy that is important for the countries. we must restore the budgetary powers of parliaments.
it's a two-card draw. i don't want to tease you at all, so i feel your commitment, but just to give an example: can you imagine that in hungary, in my country, the hungarian government runs public works programs that cost less than 1 euro an hour? can you imagine that?
in writing. i am pleased that, following my suggestion, the coordinators have accepted, in the preparation of the current draft text, that the european council should include in the decision to be adopted by the european parliament the need to take account of local and regional conditions in the fight against long-term unemployment, while respecting the current treaties. this message is particularly important as the european council will be formulating recommendations for the next employment policy debate on how to tackle long-term unemployment. the novelty of the decision is that the union has finally recognised the need to address the situation of more than 10 million european citizens who are long-term unemployed, whose numbers and proportions have increased significantly in recent years, particularly as a result of the financial and sovereign debt crisis. the decision also names specific eu member states where the employment crisis is particularly acute: portugal, slovakia, croatia, spain and greece. hungary has managed to increase employment significantly in recent years and has managed to keep the number of citizens looking for work below the eu average for more than a year, which is a great achievement, but we still cannot sit back and we must continue to work and remain open to all kinds of solutions.
in the eyes of european citizens, the failure of the lisbon strategy was essentially a failure to manage the crisis in an effective and socially just way, including the creation of massive and meaningful jobs. the experience of the past five years shows that the eu's competitiveness and economic recovery are most threatened by corruption and the intertwined practices of tax fraud and tax evasion, although the burden varies from one member state to another. the eu as a whole is facing a serious challenge as this has become governmental, almost institutionalised in some member states, and has diverted significant eu and national resources from important social objectives. it is therefore essential that effective action by governments against corruption and tax evasion in all its forms and at all levels is highlighted in the eu 2020 framework of requirements.
indeed, we are facing one of the greatest dangers, which the former european commission actually recognized, and has been doing exploratory work for practically three years to map out this whole shadow banking system. and indeed, this report is a very important milestone today, because it seems that we now know much, much more about this than we did before, even though the absorptive capacity of the shadow banking system is growing much faster than the european institutional system has been able to respond to it. i would just like to encourage the european commission to move very quickly along the path it has just laid out for us. we'll support that. i only do this because i am very worried that the economic challenges facing europe today may accelerate the growth of unregulated areas. so i suggest to the commissioner, and i ask you to do it very quickly.
it's a two-card draw. i got the green card because mr ismail ertug is the social democratic group coordinator in the committee on transport and tourism and he is a big supporter of tourism, which is why we can do so much. but, mr. representative, do you think the committee is doing enough? do you think the chairman of the committee and some of his colleagues take seriously the importance of this sector? that we should do a lot more in the committee to lobby tourism more? can you help as coordinator, by delegating to the other groups and the committee chair?
it's a two-card draw. - madam deputy! you mentioned an important element of the development of tourism, the green aspects, but i ask you whether you agree that there are other instruments that could be used to expand the possibilities of tourism. for example, in many countries, vat rates are being reduced to encourage tourism. i ask you whether you would agree that in certain regions or seasons the vat on foodstuffs or on tourist services should be uniformly zero in europe.
members of the house! i've been working on tourism policy for ten years at home, in hungary, and now here in parliament as the head of the tourism task force, as a coordinator. it's a perfect material, but i've learned that a material like this is only worth what we can do together in the european institutions now. and my problem is that the european commission doesn't see the racial weight of this issue. is it true that there are over 12 million people out of work in europe right now? i did. is it true that among young people there are seven million of our fellow citizens, our fellow europeans, who are unemployed? i did. and is it true that tourism is one of the best job-creating, job-creating sectors? i did. well, there are over 13 million people working in this sector right now. why does the commission not act and listen to the members? please invest much more energy in the development of european tourism.
i'm going to ask my colleagues to take steps to be a little quieter on the floor, because they're disturbing the speakers.
now, i'd like to announce that at the request of the commissioner, i'm going to order a two-minute technical break before the next report, and until then, i'm suspending the meeting. the commission shall be assisted by the committee established by article 15 of regulation (eu) no 182/2011.
the next item is the debate on the oral question to the commission by mr michael cramer, on behalf of the committee on transport and tourism, on the development of satellite technology for global air traffic monitoring systems (o-000118/2015 - b8-1101/2015) (2015/2857 ((rsp)).
a motion for a resolution was tabled to me at the end of the debate. i'll close this discussion. the vote will take place on 29 october 2015. (the sitting was suspended at 11.25 a.m. until the time of the vote and resumed at 11.35 a.m.) the commission shall be assisted by the committee established by article 15 of regulation (eu) no 182/2011.
i have of course supported the new rules which were introduced because of the activities of the dear leader, mr juncker. you all remember the luxleaks scandal. in this context, we voted, or the european parliament has decided, that each member state must now inform the other member states of the tax advantages it grants to the various foreign investors who come to it. this is necessary in order to level the playing field. i would like you to vote on the following issues: what kind of aid is provided, what kind of tax incentives are given to your own small businesses, for example in my own country, hungary, where they give 6 million forints to a foreign company that is a global polluter and exploiter to create a job. i would like to see a balance of competitiveness here, and the same level of support for small businesses and family businesses.
my heart was broken when we voted on the european innovation institute. and it doesn't seem like a very emotional report, but it still gave me a little bit of a heartbreak, because this is a budapest-based organization that is about innovation, innovation, what could be more worthy than budapest. hungarians invented the ballpoint pen, hungarians invented the match. recently, hungarians have invented the tumor identification scale, which is essentially able to distinguish between a rubik's cube, yes thank you very much, my colleague in the house says, and a cancer cell, a tumor cell during surgery, and a healthy cell. but what is very sad is that our accession to the european union did not promote, propel forward these innovations, these intellectual creations, but it pushed back because of the disastrous european industrial property regulations, and we became a country built on assembly plants instead of realizing our wonderful inventions and living off of them.
we don't know yet what exactly will be revealed in connection with the manipulations in the automotive industry, i mean emissions and air pollution data, but it is unfortunately almost certain that a lot of workers who are completely innocent in the matter, in the manipulations, will be fired in this connection. i think the european union should start thinking seriously now and create special committees to make us look like fools. how do we determine, for example, and who determines and how responsibility? in law, the most important thing is to settle the liability. who's going to stand up for these workers, for their lost jobs, their families' livelihoods and all that? unfortunately, in my country, you have to be self-critical. governments are also responsible, who since the change of regime have continuously served the country to these foreign companies instead of developing domestic industry and agriculture.
i voted no to the 2016 budget of the european union. how can you vote as a politician on a budget issue if you know nothing about math, you know nothing about numbers? because let's be honest, after all, budgets are a huge number. well, by looking at what are the governing principles that can be identified behind these sets of numbers. in our case, we have to ask whether it is a budget based on money and profit, which wants to force profit at all costs, especially for the big global companies, banks and others, or a budget based on people, which asks what is good for the people, the people that the politician represents, in my case, small businesses, family businesses, small farmers. and given that this budget is clearly the budget of the big multi-corporations and the banks, that's why i voted no.
i was puzzled by this report, how to vote on the question of whether more judges are needed for the court of justice of the european union. as a lawyer, i've seen how much people suffer from the slow pace of justice, so my first reaction was, yes, of course, more judges, because then the proceedings would be faster. and then i remembered my most wonderful law professor, who happened to be a judge, and who told us over and over again with glowing eyes, "remember, my colleagues, that a true judge is one who sees a just solution to a case and, if it takes three days, three nights, does not sleep until they find a legal solution that supports a just solution". now, in european union law, justice as such is not a criterion, it's not a governing principle, and therefore it doesn't matter how many judges are serving non-justice. so i voted no.
on all decisions that promote the introduction of gmos, genetically modified food, i voted no, which means yes to its exclusion. and then i asked myself, what do i know about this? well, that's a scientific question. perhaps my colleagues, who are obviously influenced by lobby groups and, indeed, by the big industrial lobbies, are right when they say that this is such a good thing, such an important thing, because it helps european farmers to be more competitive. and then i realized it was a spiritual and deeply philosophical and worldview issue. it's not just a little thing about whether or not to have gmo food. there are two worldviews colliding here. in one worldview, nothing matters but competitiveness and profit, and in the other worldview, it's about people, about human dignity and the harmony of nature and people. i believe in the latter, and that's why i voted for it.
i naturally supported the report by my hungarian colleague, mr schöpflin, in which he wanted to make the european citizens' initiative, one of the instruments of direct democracy, easier and more effective for citizens who want to have a say in the decisions of the european union. there is another such tool, the committee on petitions. i have had a very painful and bitter experience with this, and i am almost ashamed to suggest that this instrument should be used by my fellow citizens in a very difficult situation, the victims of foreign currency loans, who have suffered from being put in an unbearable situation by banks in gross violation of the european union's consumer protection standards. they went to the committee on petitions on my advice, they were here in brussels, they were full of hope and the committee on petitions has not moved its ear for about seven months now. so much for european democracy and taking citizens seriously.
in writing. ‒ the union's internal security has recently been faced with serious challenges and we can expect similar ones. this is why there is a fundamental need for properly trained law enforcement agencies, law enforcement bodies that are able to respond quickly and effectively at pan-european level to challenges such as cross-border organised crime, cybercrime and terrorism. we need policemen who can act with full professionalism in today's migration crisis. the existence of a modernised, efficient, autonomous and adequately staffed cepol agency is therefore essential. the new rules modernise cepol's legal basis and define its priorities. this should include an assessment of the strategic training needs at union level, the accreditation of training, the sharing of common curricula, the sharing of positive examples and the identification of the minimum knowledge to be included in the curriculum of each police academy. cepol should be able to provide training and trainers at union level. at the same time, it was important to ensure that cepol's reliance on and close cooperation with national police academies remained unchanged in the legislative process. i voted in favour of the report, which gave the european police college, cepol's headquarters in budapest, the strong legal basis and framework it needs to function properly.
in writing. ‒ the union's internal security has recently been faced with serious challenges and we can expect similar ones. this is why we urgently need properly trained law enforcement agencies, law enforcement agencies that are able to respond quickly and effectively at european level to challenges such as cross-border organised crime, cybercrime, terrorism. we need policemen who can act with full professionalism in today's migration crisis. the existence of a modernised, efficient, autonomous and adequately staffed cepol agency is therefore essential. the new rules modernise cepol's legal basis and define its priorities. this should include an assessment of the strategic training needs at union level, the accreditation of training, the sharing of common curricula, the sharing of positive examples and the identification of the minimum knowledge to be included in the curriculum of each police academy. cepol should be able to provide training and trainers at union level. at the same time, it was important to ensure that cepol's reliance on and close cooperation with national police academies remained unchanged in the legislative process. i voted in favour of the report, which gave the european police college, cepol's headquarters in budapest, the strong legal basis and framework it needs to function properly.
in writing. the union's internal security has recently been faced with serious challenges and is likely to face similar ones. this is why we urgently need properly trained law enforcement agencies, law enforcement agencies that are able to respond quickly and effectively at european level to challenges such as cross-border organised crime, cybercrime, terrorism. we need policemen who can act with full professionalism in today's migration crisis. the existence of a modernised, efficient, autonomous and adequately staffed cepol agency is therefore essential. the new rules modernise cepol's legal basis and define its priorities. this should include an assessment of the strategic training needs at union level, the accreditation of training, the sharing of common curricula, the sharing of positive examples and the identification of the minimum knowledge to be included in the curriculum of each police academy. cepol should be able to provide training and trainers at union level. at the same time, it was important to ensure that cepol's reliance on and close cooperation with national police academies remained unchanged in the legislative process. i voted in favour of the report, which gave the european police college, cepol's headquarters in budapest, the strong legal basis and framework it needs to function properly.
in writing. ‒ the union's internal security has recently been faced with serious challenges and we can expect similar ones. this is why we urgently need properly trained law enforcement agencies, law enforcement agencies that are able to respond quickly and effectively at european level to challenges such as cross-border organised crime, cybercrime, terrorism. we need policemen who can act with full professionalism in today's migration crisis. the existence of a modernised, efficient, autonomous and adequately staffed cepol agency is therefore essential. the new rules modernise cepol's legal basis and define its priorities. this should include an assessment of the strategic training needs at union level, the accreditation of training, the sharing of common curricula, the sharing of positive examples and the identification of the minimum knowledge to be included in the curriculum of each police academy. cepol should be able to provide training and trainers at union level. at the same time, it was important to ensure that cepol's reliance on and close cooperation with national police academies remained unchanged in the legislative process. i voted in favour of the report, which gave the european police college, cepol's headquarters in budapest, the strong legal basis and framework it needs to function properly.
in writing. ‒ i agree with the rapporteur that it is important to make cepol and the european law enforcement training system it implements more effective. i confirm that the basic structure of cepol should remain unchanged, with training mainly based on and in close cooperation with the network of national police academies. the european parliament strongly advocated that cepol should continue to operate as an independent union agency. this strong support is underpinned by the conviction that cepol is capable of contributing to the development of a credible european law enforcement culture based on respect for fundamental rights and of providing a value-added service to european taxpayers as an eu agency. it is therefore of paramount importance that cepol, as an eu agency, becomes not only a platform for cooperation between national bodies, but also a cornerstone of implementation and delivery at eu level.
in writing. ‒ the union's internal security has recently been faced with serious challenges and we can expect similar ones. this is why we urgently need properly trained law enforcement agencies, law enforcement agencies that are able to respond quickly and effectively at european level to challenges such as cross-border organised crime, cybercrime, terrorism. we need law enforcement officers who can respond appropriately to today's migration crisis. a modern, autonomous and well-staffed cepol agency is therefore essential. the new rules modernise cepol's legal basis and define its priorities. this should include an assessment of the strategic training needs at union level, the accreditation of training, the sharing of common curricula, the sharing of positive examples and the identification of the minimum knowledge to be included in the curriculum of each police academy. cepol should be able to provide training and trainers at union level. at the same time, it was important to rely on cepol's national police academies and to maintain close cooperation with them. i voted in favour of the report, which strengthened the european police college, cepol's headquarters in budapest, and gave it the appropriate legal basis for its operation.
in writing. ‒ in march 2013, the european commission proposed the creation of a european law enforcement training system. the aim of the system is to provide adequate training for law enforcement officials in order to address the growing threat of transnational and organised crime, to encourage and maintain effective and seamless cross-border cooperation between national law enforcement authorities and to strengthen mutual trust. the european police college (cepol) is responsible for training in law enforcement. the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council establishing a european agency for law enforcement training and repealing and replacing council decision 2005/681/jha, submitted by the commission, entrusts cepol with the implementation of the principles of that new law enforcement training system and updates cepol's legal basis and brings it into line with the changes introduced by the treaty of lisbon. in its report, parliament's committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs tabled 30 amendments to the commission's draft regulation and recommended that parliament adopt the draft. i supported the motion.
in writing. ‒ the union's internal security has recently been faced with serious challenges and we can expect similar ones. this is why we urgently need properly trained law enforcement agencies, law enforcement agencies that are able to respond quickly and effectively at european level to challenges such as cross-border organised crime, cybercrime, terrorism. we need policemen who can act with full professionalism in today's migration crisis. the existence of a modernised, efficient, autonomous and adequately staffed cepol agency is therefore essential. the new rules modernise cepol's legal basis and define its priorities. this should include an assessment of the strategic training needs at union level, the accreditation of training, the sharing of common curricula, the sharing of positive examples and the identification of the minimum knowledge to be included in the curriculum of each police academy. cepol should be able to provide training and trainers at union level. at the same time, it was important to ensure that cepol's reliance on and close cooperation with national police academies remained unchanged in the legislative process. i voted in favour of the report, which gave the european police college, cepol's headquarters in budapest, the strong legal basis and framework it needs to function properly.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the adoption of the report because it supports, on well-founded grounds, the commission's vision of making this important european agency more effective, drawing on state-of-the-art training on new types and methods of crossborder organised crime and adapting its legal basis to the framework of the lisbon treaty. it also provides sufficient justification for the need to expand and modernise cepol's activities in order to adapt to new international and european challenges. to this end, i can accept that the agency should be able to use a larger budget, while at the same time being able to manage it more efficiently and economically. however, i am firmly opposed to any proposal to move cepol's headquarters from budapest, using a narrow budgetary approach and under the pretext of austerity, renewing the hague-europol merger attempt, which has already failed - with good reason - in the face of the strong opposition of the council and the ep. the report also reflects the diverse and useful activities of cepol to date, for which the budapest headquarters provides the appropriate infrastructure and conditions in all respects. the choice of the seat was partly symbolic and had a european political significance at the time, as the emergence of an important european institution had the effect of encouraging the strengthening of modern law and order in a new democracy. this aspect has become even more important in the current unfavourable political environment in hungary, and i intend to pay particular attention to the question of the seat in any future parliamentary work on cepol.
in writing. ‒ the eu's internal security needs are constantly changing, placing increasing demands on police forces and law enforcement officers. only with adequate preparedness can we guarantee that we will meet the challenges of the future and protect the security of european citizens. in order to address the growing threat of transnational and organised crime, effective and seamless cross-border cooperation between all relevant national law enforcement authorities is key. the european police college (cepol) is responsible for training in law enforcement. cepol is not a training institution in the traditional sense: training takes place across the union and is mainly provided by the network of national police academies. cepol is based in budapest, which is particularly important. that is why i, as a hungarian representative, supported the gall report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report because the global financial crisis has exposed excessive speculative activity, significant regulatory gaps and problems of supervisory effectiveness in a financial system characterised by opaque markets and overly complex products. the crisis has also highlighted the need to increase transparency and scrutiny not only in the traditional banking sector but also in the area of so-called shadow banks engaged in non-bank lending activities, which have grown to an alarming level and now represent around half of the regulated banking system. in the light of the above, in order to prevent a recurrence of a major financial crisis, the excessive use of leverage in the financial system should be addressed, in particular where this excessive use leads to an increase in shadow banking activities. it is important to recall that the primary task of the financial sector is not to speculate on assets but to provide the capital needed to finance the productive economy.
in writing. ‒ the european commission has proposed a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the notification and transparency of securities financing transactions. the global financial crisis of 2007-2008 has highlighted the need to increase transparency and scrutiny not only in the traditional banking sector but also in the area of shadow banking, which now accounts for around half of the regulated banking system. the deficiencies in the activities of banks can also cause damage in the regulated financial sector. in the wake of the global financial crisis, the union has committed itself to creating a banking union, a structural reform of the banking sector, with the aim of creating a stronger and more stable banking system. however, the introduction of structural measures affecting banks may result in certain activities being transferred to less regulated areas, such as the shadow banking sector. therefore, the mandatory transparency and reporting requirements for sfts set out in the proposed regulation by the commission are necessary. the transparency rules laid down in this regulation therefore complement the rules on union structural reform. in its report, parliament's committee on economic and monetary affairs tabled a number of amendments to the draft regulation, but recommended the draft to parliament for adoption. i supported the motion.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the reporting and transparency of securities financing transactions. reporting and ensuring transparency of sfts is a fundamental prerequisite for a transparent and more resilient european financial system. i agree with the report that unregulated banking and shadow banking should be curbed, as this is a key european interest. therefore, a legal framework is needed to ensure transparency of the sft regime for market surveillance authorities. in particular, i support the argument that the introduction and implementation of uniform requirements at international level is necessary to ensure an effective regulatory framework for shadow banking.
in writing. ‒ the global financial crisis of 2007-2008 exposed excessive speculative activity, significant regulatory weaknesses and problems of supervisory effectiveness in a financial system characterised by opaque markets and overly complex products. the union has adopted a number of measures to create a stronger and more stable banking system, including tightening capital requirements, rules on better governance and supervision, and resolution mechanisms. i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ we, the european people's party, believe that the privacy and fundamental rights of our citizens must be adequately protected. at the same time, we must strike a balance between public safety and the right to privacy. we support security standards for mobile and online communications, a reliable european information cloud, balanced data protection and a more european security service. today's resolution contains ideological demands that have nothing to do with mass surveillance. we, the members of the hungarian people's party delegation, voted against the resolution because we believe that it is the task of national parliaments to find the balance between protecting freedoms and ensuring national security.
in writing. ‒ i join the rapporteur in welcoming the investigations launched by the german bundestag, the council of europe, the un and the brazilian senate, the debates in many other national parliaments and the work of many civil society actors, which have contributed to raising general awareness of mass electronic surveillance. however, i am disappointed that most member states and the eu institutions have shown no willingness to act with urgency and seriousness on the issues raised in the resolution and to implement the specific recommendations contained therein, and that there is a lack of transparency and dialogue with parliament. takes note that the commission's annual report on the implementation of the union's policy on the prevention of corruption and organised crime, as well as the annual report on the implementation of the union's policy on the prevention of corruption and organised crime, were published in the official journal of the european union on 28 september 2013;
in writing. ‒ we, the european people's party, believe that the privacy and fundamental rights of our citizens must be adequately protected. at the same time, we must strike a balance between public safety and the right to privacy. we support security standards for mobile and online communications, a reliable european information cloud, balanced data protection and a more european security service. the resolution contains ideological demands that have nothing to do with mass surveillance. as a member of the fidesz hungarian people's party delegation, we voted against the resolution because we believe that it is the task of national parliaments to find the balance between protecting freedoms and guaranteeing national security.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution because i think it is right that the ep is monitoring the issue, since we need to prevent the infringement of the most fundamental rights of our citizens by using ever more modern tools. the report gives an accurate picture of the open or unresolved issues that have arisen following last year's parliament resolution and also suggests solutions, both in the context of relations with the usa and within the eu, which i can support. this issue is of particular importance to me as a hungarian democrat, a socialist politician, because it is precisely in this area that the government of my own country is preparing to commit a serious violation of the law. on the pretext of 'protecting public order', it is preparing a further package of measures to implement almost unlimited police control of the it communications of private individuals and even a general facial recognition system for the entire population, not tied to a specific law enforcement purpose. in the current political environment in hungary, following the dismantling of democratic barriers, citizens may have reason to fear that the authorities will use these modern tools arbitrarily to restrict the rights of individuals, assembly, and expression. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
in writing. ‒ in the resolution cited above, parliament called on the us authorities and the member states to prohibit the widespread use of mass surveillance and the mass processing of personal data of citizens, and condemned the activities of intelligence services that have been revealed and have seriously undermined the trust and fundamental rights of eu citizens. i supported the motion for a resolution on the follow-up to the resolution.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report because i appreciate that the economic recovery is slowly starting, with gdp in the euro area expected to grow by 1.9% in 2016 and in the union by 2.1%. however, i am concerned that the foundations of the recovery are fragile, due, among other factors, to the underlying structural weaknesses and regional economic disparities in the union, the resulting uneven growth and low international competitiveness. i also welcome the focus of the commission's 2015 country-specific recommendations on the following four main priorities for economic growth: boosting investment, implementing structural reforms in the product, service and labour markets, sound fiscal management and improving employment policies. i consider it important to underline the importance of these growth drivers, including in relation to the achievement of the europe 2020 objectives and the overall objective of enhancing the union's global competitiveness.
in writing. ‒ the european semester process aims to ensure integrated economic policy coordination at eu level through a combination of macroeconomic and budgetary surveillance tools. as part of the annual cycle of the european semester, the country-specific recommendations advise each member state on the measures needed to boost growth while maintaining sound public finances. however, most member states have implemented these recommendations to a very limited extent. the draft parliament resolution submitted by the committee on economic and monetary affairs therefore proposes to state that the union's economic, financial and employment situation will only improve through the implementation of ambitious structural reforms and that these structural reforms are important preconditions for union initiatives such as the esf to deliver more tangible results. the draft also proposes to note that unemployment rates are very high in most member states, that flexible labour markets play an important role in combating unemployment and that a shift from labour taxes to other sources of taxation would be needed to raise employment rates. i voted in favour of the draft resolution.
in writing. - i voted against the report. the main reason for my decision is that the report continues to refer to structural reforms which are not even mentioned in the social dimension. this is a significant step back from last year's report and imposes a huge and unfair burden on citizens. i believe that the report does not take sufficient account of the interests of european citizens. in addition to the above, i would like to briefly underline two other reasons. it is positive that the report calls attention to the creation of quality jobs, but it is a big mistake that the report does not even reflect on practices in member states, such as the public works programme in hungary, which places workers in a significantly vulnerable position. however, the use of the employment rate would also be justified, but this is not mentioned in the report. i also strongly reject the european parliament's declaration in this report that it 'recognises that the setting of minimum wages is a matter for the member states', which is unfortunately still harmful to workers in many member states. i believe in a kind of unification in this field. that is, parliament should encourage common thinking here and not make false declarations. however, it is promising that the report encourages the commission to make proposals on how to ensure that the recommendations of the european semester are implemented and applied more effectively and consistently.
in writing. ‒ the european semester process aims to ensure integrated economic policy coordination at eu level through a combination of macroeconomic and budgetary surveillance tools, which is needed to manage convergence and manage the interdependence of member states. as the report lacked substantial social aspects, i did not support the package in the final vote.
in writing. ‒ the european parliament resolution adopted today sets out recommendations for the next european council on employment policy to address long-term unemployment. the novelty of the decision is that the union has finally recognised the need to address the situation of the nearly 12 million long-term unemployed european citizens, whose numbers and proportions have increased significantly in recent years, particularly as a result of the financial and sovereign debt crisis, and which also vary widely across member states. it is therefore particularly important that the decision adopted today includes the need to take account of local and regional conditions in the fight against longterm unemployment, while respecting the current treaties. the decision also names specific eu member states where the employment crisis is particularly acute: portugal, slovakia, croatia, spain and greece. hungary in contrast has been able to increase employment significantly in recent years and to keep the number of longterm jobseekers below the eu average. this puts hungary between germany and the czech republic in the european ranking, which is a significant achievement. however, there is still a lot to do, and we need to keep working and remain open to all possibilities and working solutions.
in writing. ‒ the european parliament resolution adopted today sets out recommendations for the next european council on employment policy to address long-term unemployment. the novelty of the decision is that the union has finally recognised the need to address the situation of the nearly 12 million long-term unemployed european citizens, whose numbers and proportions have increased significantly in recent years, particularly as a result of the financial and sovereign debt crisis, and which also vary widely across member states. it is therefore particularly important that the decision adopted today includes the need to take account of local and regional conditions in the fight against longterm unemployment, while respecting the current treaties. the decision also names specific eu member states where the employment crisis is particularly acute: portugal, slovakia, croatia, spain and greece. hungary in contrast has been able to increase employment significantly in recent years and to keep the number of longterm jobseekers below the eu average, placing hungary between germany and the czech republic in the european ranking, which is a significant achievement. at the same time, we must not stand back: we must continue to work and remain open to all possibilities and to all solutions that work.
in writing. the european parliament resolution adopted today sets out recommendations for the next european council on employment policy to address long-term unemployment. the novelty of the decision is that the union has finally recognised the need to address the situation of the nearly 12 million long-term unemployed european citizens, whose numbers and proportions have increased significantly in recent years, particularly as a result of the financial and sovereign debt crisis, and which also vary widely across member states. it is therefore particularly important that the decision adopted today includes the need to take account of local and regional conditions in the fight against longterm unemployment, while respecting the current treaties. the decision also names specific eu member states where the employment crisis is particularly acute: portugal, slovakia, croatia, spain and greece. hungary in contrast has been able to increase employment significantly in recent years and to keep the number of longterm jobseekers below the eu average, placing hungary between germany and the czech republic in the european ranking, which is a significant achievement. at the same time, we must not stand back: we must continue to work and remain open to all possibilities and to all solutions that work.
former minister of finance of the republic of moldova. ‒ the european parliament resolution adopted today sets out recommendations for the next european council on employment policy to address long-term unemployment. the novelty of the decision is that the union has finally recognised the need to address the situation of the nearly 12 million long-term unemployed european citizens, whose numbers and proportions have increased significantly in recent years, particularly as a result of the financial and sovereign debt crisis, and which also vary widely across member states. it is therefore particularly important that the decision adopted today includes the need to take account of local and regional conditions in the fight against longterm unemployment, while respecting the current treaties. the decision also names specific eu member states where the employment crisis is particularly acute: portugal, slovakia, croatia, spain and greece. hungary in contrast has been able to increase employment significantly in recent years and to keep the number of longterm jobseekers below the eu average, placing hungary between germany and the czech republic in the european ranking, which is a significant achievement. at the same time, we must not stand back: we must continue to work and remain open to all possibilities and to all solutions that work.
in writing. ‒ i welcome the commission's initiative to propose a council recommendation on the integration of the longterm unemployed into the labour market and would like to stress that the earlier submission of the proposal and its adoption by the council could have partly prevented the current level of longterm unemployment. the report shares my concern that a council recommendation may not be sufficient to remedy the situation of the longterm unemployed quickly and urges the member states to achieve results as soon as possible. in particular, i support the three main elements of the proposal, namely the extension of the registration of the permanently unemployed with an employment service, with a view to full registration, the assessment of the individual skills, needs and job preferences of the permanently unemployed before reaching 18 months of unemployment, and the provision of a personalised, balanced and comprehensible labour market integration agreement between the permanently unemployed and the services concerned at the latest at the age of 18 months of unemployment.
in writing. ‒ the european parliament resolution adopted today sets out recommendations for the next european council on employment policy to address long-term unemployment. the novelty of the decision is that the union recognised that the situation of the nearly 12 million long-term unemployed european citizens also needed to be addressed, as the number of unemployed has increased significantly in recent years, particularly as a result of the financial and sovereign debt crises. in this respect, there are wide differences between member states and it is therefore particularly important that the decision adopted today includes the need to take account of local and regional conditions in the fight against unemployment, while respecting the current treaties. the decision also names specific eu member states where the employment crisis is particularly acute: portugal, slovakia, croatia, spain and greece. hungary in contrast has been able to increase employment significantly in recent years and to keep the number of longterm jobseekers below the eu average, so that hungary is currently between germany and the czech republic in the european ranking, which is a significant achievement. at the same time, we must not stand back: we must continue to work and remain open to all possibilities and to all solutions that work.
in writing. ‒ the european parliament resolution adopted today sets out recommendations for the next european council on employment policy to address long-term unemployment. the novelty of the decision is that the union has finally recognised the need to address the situation of the nearly 12 million long-term unemployed european citizens, whose numbers and proportions have increased significantly in recent years, particularly as a result of the financial and sovereign debt crisis, and which also vary widely across member states. it is therefore particularly important that the decision adopted today includes the need to take account of local and regional conditions in the fight against longterm unemployment, while respecting the current treaties. the decision also names specific eu member states where the employment crisis is particularly acute: portugal, slovakia, croatia, spain and greece. hungary in contrast has been able to increase employment significantly in recent years and to keep the number of longterm jobseekers below the eu average, placing hungary between germany and the czech republic in european rankings, which is a significant achievement. at the same time, we must not stand back: we must continue to work and remain open to all possibilities and to all solutions that work.
in writing. ‒ the committee on employment and social affairs, in its proposal for a parliamentary resolution, welcomes the commission's initiative, but is concerned that a council recommendation will not be enough to remedy the situation of the long-term unemployed quickly, and therefore urges the member states to achieve results as soon as possible. it also supports the three main elements of the proposal, namely (1) the extension of the registration of the permanently unemployed with a view to a comprehensive registration, (2) the assessment of the individual skills, needs and job preferences of the permanently unemployed before reaching 18 months of unemployment, and (3) the provision of a personalised, balanced and understandable labour market integration agreement between the permanently unemployed and the services concerned at the latest after reaching 18 months of unemployment. however, it points out that this approach cannot exclude non-state actors, such as ngos working with the long-term unemployed, from the process. stresses, finally, that all the long-term unemployed should be helped, not just those who have been unemployed for at least 18 months, and considers it particularly important that member states' policies on short-term (less than 12 months) unemployment and youth unemployment (including the youth guarantee) should be fully integrated into policies to tackle long-term unemployment.
in writing. ‒ the european parliament resolution adopted today sets out recommendations for the next european council on employment policy to address long-term unemployment. the novelty of the decision is that the union has finally recognised the need to address the situation of the nearly 12 million long-term unemployed european citizens, whose numbers and proportions have increased significantly in recent years, particularly as a result of the financial and sovereign debt crisis, and which also vary widely across member states. it is therefore particularly important that the decision adopted today includes the need to take account of local and regional conditions in the fight against longterm unemployment, while respecting the current treaties. the decision also names specific eu member states where the employment crisis is particularly acute: portugal, slovakia, croatia, spain and greece. hungary in contrast has been able to increase employment significantly in recent years and to keep the number of longterm jobseekers below the eu average, placing hungary between germany and the czech republic in the european ranking, which is a significant achievement. at the same time, we must not stand back: we must continue to work and remain open to all possibilities and to all solutions that work.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the motion because it aims to create a better european union. the economic crisis and its consequences have led to a doubling of the number of the permanently unemployed since 2007 and an eu-wide solution is needed to address this situation. i believe that there is a need for substantive action, reliable statistics and controls in this area. for example, hungary should not include in its employment data those who have jobs abroad, or count them as a statistical unit even if they have worked only one hour in a month. there should be no public service program that provides a wage of 150 euros a month for modern slavery. instead, i propose that governments adopt the recommendations of the motion, including the development of specific on-the-job training programmes and business development and investment plans that create sustainable and quality jobs for the long-term unemployed. this is because long-term unemployment often leads to poverty, inequality and social exclusion, and disproportionately affects those at risk of being disadvantaged in the labour market.
in writing. ‒ the economic crisis and its consequences have led to a doubling of the number of the long-term unemployed since 2007, and now more than half of the unemployed belong to this category: more than 12 million people, or 5% of the eu's active population. moreover, in 2014, more than 60% of the long-term unemployed had been out of work for at least two consecutive years. sustainable job creation is one of the union's key priorities, which is why i supported the report.
in writing. ‒ unmanned vehicles are becoming a reality, and exploiting their potential will create jobs and economic and innovation development. at the same time, security brings new challenges in the protection of human rights. this is why it is necessary to establish rules at union level for civil unmanned vehicles. a community framework of rules will help to maintain competitiveness, to increase employment, including support for smes, and to maximise the use of technology, which can have a positive impact on technology in other industries. the report contains recommendations that can serve as inspiration for the european commission in the light of its own legislative proposal, which it intends to publish at the end of 2015. the report is in line with both the programme of the european people's party and the fundamental principles of hungary, which is why i voted in favour of it.
in writing. unmanned vehicles are becoming a reality, and exploiting their potential will create jobs and economic and innovation development. it also brings new challenges in terms of security, human rights. this is why it is necessary to establish rules at union level for civil unmanned vehicles. a community framework of rules will help to maintain competitiveness, to increase employment, including support for smes, and to maximise the use of technology, which can have a positive impact on technology in other industries. the report contains recommendations that can serve as inspiration for the european commission in the light of its own legislative proposal, which it intends to publish at the end of 2015. the report is in line with both the programme of the european people's party and the fundamental principles of hungary, which is why i voted in favour of it.
in writing. ‒ unmanned vehicles are becoming a reality, and exploiting their potential will create jobs and economic and innovation development. it also brings new challenges in terms of security, human rights. this is why it is necessary to establish rules at union level for civil unmanned vehicles. a community framework of rules will help to maintain competitiveness, to increase employment, including support for smes, and to maximise the use of technology, which can have a positive impact on technology in other industries. the report contains recommendations that can serve as inspiration for the european commission in the light of its own legislative proposal, which it intends to publish at the end of 2015. the report is in line with both the programme of the european people's party and the fundamental principles of hungary, which is why i voted in favour of it.
in writing. ‒ agrees with the rapporteur that the sector of remotely piloted aircraft systems urgently needs european and global regulation to enable the cross-border development of such systems and that a clear european legal framework is needed to ensure investment in a competitive european remotely piloted aircraft system sector and to develop the sector; stresses that, in the absence of any prior action, there is a risk that the full economic potential and benefits of remotely piloted aircraft systems will not be exploited. i accept and fully support the following five principles for the future development of remotely piloted aircraft systems set out in the riga declaration: remotely piloted aircraft systems should be treated as new types of aircraft and be subject to proportionate rules based on the risks of their operations; eu rules for the safe provision of services with remotely piloted aircraft systems should be established to allow for sectoral investment; technology and specifications for the full integration of remotely piloted aircraft systems into european airspace should be developed; social acceptance is key to the expansion of services provided with remotely piloted aircraft systems and operators of remotely piloted aircraft systems should be responsible for the use of these systems.
in writing. ‒ unmanned vehicles are becoming a reality, and exploiting their potential is a chance to create jobs and economic and innovation development. it also poses new challenges in terms of security policy, human rights protection. this is why it is necessary to establish rules at union level for civil unmanned vehicles. a community framework of rules will help to maintain competitiveness, to increase employment, including support for smes, and to maximise the use of technology, which can have a positive impact on technology in other industries. the report contains recommendations that can serve as inspiration for the european commission in the light of its own legislative proposal, which it intends to publish at the end of 2015. the report is in line with both the programme of the european people's party and the fundamental principles of hungary, which is why i voted in favour of it.
in writing. ‒ remote-controlled aircraft systems, which were previously primarily for military use, have been rapidly developing and expanding into civilian life. the draft parliament resolution, tabled by the committee on transport and tourism, argues that the sector of remotely piloted aircraft systems urgently needs european and global regulation to allow for the cross-border development of such systems. it urges the establishment of a clear european legal framework to ensure investment in and development of a competitive european sector of remotely piloted aircraft systems. recommends that the five principles identified in the riga declaration for the future development of remotely piloted aircraft systems be adopted and fully supported. i voted for the motion.
in writing. ‒ unmanned vehicles are becoming a reality, and exploiting their potential will create jobs and economic and innovation development. it also brings new challenges in terms of security, human rights. this is why it is necessary to establish rules at union level for civil unmanned vehicles. a community framework of rules will help to maintain competitiveness, to increase employment, including support for smes, and to maximise the use of technology, which can have a positive impact on technology in other industries. the report contains recommendations that can serve as inspiration for the european commission in the light of its own legislative proposal, which it intends to publish at the end of 2015. the report is in line with both the programme of the european people's party and the fundamental principles of hungary, which is why i voted in favour of it.
in writing. ‒ remote-controlled aircraft systems have ushered in a new era in aviation. this sector urgently needs european and global regulation to allow for the cross-border development of such systems. a clear european legal framework is needed to ensure investment in and development of a competitive european systems sector. in the absence of such action, there is a risk that the full economic potential and benefits of remotely piloted aircraft systems will not be exploited. that is one of the reasons why i supported the adoption of the foster report.
in writing. ‒ tourism plays a vital role in the life of the european union, and the european parliament has a responsibility to protect the industry. this sector is also of considerable importance from the hungarian point of view. some 13 million jobs are directly or indirectly linked to tourism across europe. the report voted on today will help to maintain competitiveness, safeguard jobs and promote europe's favourite destinations, help to market european tourist destinations together and promote responsible and sustainable tourism. europe is also facing increasing competition on the world stage, as emerging, cheaper third countries attract masses of tourists. europe must first and foremost showcase its diversity and its incredible cultural heritage in this competition. with my vote, as a member of the fidesz delegation, i supported the report.
in writing. tourism plays a very important role in the life of the european union, and the european parliament has a responsibility to protect the industry. this sector is also of considerable importance from the hungarian point of view. some 13 million jobs are directly or indirectly linked to tourism across europe. the report voted on today will help to maintain competitiveness, safeguard jobs and promote europe's favourite destinations, help to market european tourist destinations together and promote responsible and sustainable tourism. europe is also facing increasing competition on the world stage, as emerging, cheaper third countries attract masses of tourists. europe must first and foremost showcase its diversity and its incredible cultural heritage in this competition. that is why i voted in favour of the report as a member of the fidesz delegation.
in writing. ‒ tourism plays a vital role in the life of the european union, and the european parliament has a responsibility to protect the industry. this sector is also of considerable importance from the hungarian point of view. some 13 million jobs are directly or indirectly linked to tourism across europe. the report voted on today will help to maintain competitiveness, safeguard jobs and promote europe's favourite destinations, help to market european tourist destinations together and promote responsible and sustainable tourism. europe is also facing increasing competition on the world stage, as emerging, cheaper third countries attract masses of tourists. europe must first and foremost showcase its diversity and its incredible cultural heritage in this competition. that is why i voted in favour of the report as a member of the fidesz delegation.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report because i regard its objectives, which strongly encourage the commission to continue and strengthen the promotion of europe as the world's leading tourism destination in cooperation with the european tourism council (etc), which brings together national tourism organisations, as a priority under the common european approach. i welcome the implementation of the long-term strategy 'roadmap: europe 2020', which includes a series of marketing, branding and promotional actions to promote europe as a tourist destination. i also consider it important to stress that the creation of a 'european destinations' brand, which aims to complement and enhance the promotion activities of national, regional, cross-border and local tourism organisations and the european tourism sector, is of great importance in order to increase the visibility and competitiveness of european tourism destinations, especially in distant markets.
in writing. ‒ tourism plays a very important role in the life of the european union, and the european parliament is responsible for protecting the industry. this sector is also of considerable importance from the hungarian point of view. some 13 million jobs are directly or indirectly linked to tourism across europe. the report voted on today will help to maintain competitiveness, safeguard jobs and promote sustainable tourism. europe is also facing increasing competition on a global scale, as emerging, cheaper third world countries attract masses of tourists. europe must first and foremost showcase its diversity and its incredible cultural heritage in this competition. i voted in favour of the report as a member of the fidesz delegation.
in writing. ‒ the report highlights that tourism is a key growth area of the european economy, accounting for 10% of eu gdp, including tourism-related sectors, and directly employing 13 million people, equivalent to at least 12% of eu jobs. it points out that europe is the world's number one tourist destination with a share of 52%; statistics show that the majority of eu citizens' trips abroad are still within the eu and forecasts show that the number of foreign tourists arriving in the eu will increase by 140 million per year by 2025. tourism is therefore a major socioeconomic activity in the eu, with a wide-ranging impact on economic growth, employment and social development, and can therefore play a crucial role in addressing the current economic and employment crisis. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the existing aid to the following areas: i supported the adoption of the report.
in writing. ‒ tourism is almost the only sector that has performed well across europe during and after the crisis, contributing to the national economic performance of the countries concerned. two thirds of eu citizens spend their holidays in one of the eu member states, and the eu market generates around 50% of world tourism revenue. tourism plays a major role in the european union and the world economy, accounting for nine per cent of global gdp and five per cent of the european community's gdp, according to some estimates. according to surveys, tourism provides almost 20 million european jobs, or 4% of the employment rate in the european member states. the tourism sector therefore needs more attention. the de monte report is a great piece of work, which is why i voted in favour of it.
in writing. ‒ the aircraft accidents of previous years have shown that flight control systems need to be improved. this development can be achieved by using satellite technology that can track aircraft anywhere on earth and alert authorities immediately to any problems. the global system will improve the safety of civil aviation and the amount of data that can be obtained during investigations, which will shed light on the circumstances of the accident and thus prevent further accidents. i therefore voted in favour of this motion for a resolution as a member of the fidesz delegation.
in writing. the airplane accidents of previous years have shown that flight control systems need to be improved. this development can be achieved by using satellite technology that can track aircraft anywhere on earth and alert authorities immediately to any problems. the global system will improve the safety of civil aviation and the amount of data that can be obtained during investigations, which will shed light on the circumstances of the accident and thus prevent further accidents. i therefore voted in favour of this motion for a resolution as a member of the fidesz delegation.
in writing. ‒ the aircraft accidents of previous years have shown that flight control systems need to be improved. this development can be achieved by using satellite technology that can track aircraft anywhere on earth and alert authorities immediately to any problems. the global system will improve the safety of civil aviation and the amount of data that can be obtained during investigations, which will shed light on the circumstances of the accident and thus prevent further accidents. i therefore voted in favour of this motion for a resolution as a member of the fidesz delegation.
in writing. ‒ given that the tragedies of air france flight af447 and malaysia airlines flight mh370 have highlighted the need to put in place new systems to ensure that aircraft involved in public air transport can be located at all times, even in remote locations, and that these global air traffic services control systems facilitate the determination of the position of aircraft in the event of abnormal behaviour, an emergency or an accident, i support the commission's action to rapidly develop a global performance-based system for tracking air traffic, which will enable air navigation service providers to determine the current position of aircraft engaged in public transport, even in remote locations. i would like to emphasise that this system must remain operational in the event of a normal on-board power failure and must not offer the possibility of switching off the system in flight. i believe that the development of such a system should be achieved through close cooperation between all stakeholders (e.g. industry, airlines, air navigation service providers, air safety and rescue services, safety investigation authorities and international organisations).
in writing. ‒ the airplane accidents of recent years have demonstrated the need for improvement in flight control systems. this development can be achieved by a satellite technology that can track aircraft anywhere on earth and send immediate alerts to the authorities of any problems. the global system will improve the safety of civil aviation and increase the amount of data available for investigations, which will explain the circumstances of the accident and thus prevent further accidents. as a member of the fidesz delegation, i voted in favour of this motion for a resolution.
in writing. ‒ the draft parliament resolution tabled by the committee on transport and tourism proposes that parliament should support commission action to rapidly develop a global performance-based system for the monitoring of air traffic, which would enable air navigation service providers to determine the current position of aircraft engaged in public transport. it emphasises that this system must remain operational in the event of a failure of the normal on-board power supply and must not offer the possibility of switching off the system in flight. lastly, it proposes to invite the commission to take the necessary steps to support the future development of a global air traffic monitoring satellite system by designating the radio frequency bands in view of the next world radiocommunication conference in geneva in november 2015. i supported the motion.
in writing. ‒ the tragedies of air france flight af447 (1 june 2009) and malaysia airlines flight mh370 (8 march 2014) have highlighted the need to put in place new systems to ensure that aircraft involved in public air transport can be located at all times, even in remote locations. that's why i supported the report.
mr president, the 2016 growth report is part of economic governance and aims to harmonise economic policy for member states. the commission intends to set the same objectives for 28 member states. quoting from the question tabled by the committee on employment and social affairs in the october plenary session: 'the member states are very different in their social, economic and budgetary circumstances. what flexibility is available within national budgetary rules? i can already hear the answer, that the country-specific recommendations are coming. another report proved that these are not being followed by member states because they are not addressing their real problems. i must therefore state that the european semester of economic governance is a straitjacket for the member states. it does not provide the necessary leeway for truly country-specific economic decisions.
mr president, this is the fourth time that this parliament has dealt with what is essentially a single instrument for the coordination of economic policies in the european union. and this is where we really see the value of this new tool, because it gives us the opportunity to interpret, in a unified structure, the progress or the regression of the economic policies of different countries. obviously, in the case of budget, growth, employment, i.e. competition policies, comparisons are necessary, because otherwise we will never understand why there is a difference of almost 20 times in european wages, depending on which corner of europe we look at, and also in the case of taxation, where the problems arise. i accept, i believe that tax policy is a very important tool in the hands of any government. however, there may be cases, such as food, where it is only in the interests of the people, of the european citizens, that harmonized policies are worth pursuing. now, the experience of this time, and this is a new phenomenon in relation to the progress that has been made, is that the european commission, by restructuring, by restructuring the logic of the european semester, is almost crowding out the european parliament. it leaves far less time for the european parliament to do its job, and that is what we have to say - it gives european citizens less say. the five presidents' report also stressed the need for more democracy, and believe me, believe me, mr. commissioner, democracy has never hurt, never hurt economic development.
mr president, i also welcome the commissioner, because this is a debate that shows that we need to come together. i am one of the voices of the tourism sector in this parliament, and on behalf of some two million businesses and more than ten million workers, i would like to make a statement on this matter. the tourism industry - and not just the airports' federation, not just the hotels, but all the sectoral trade associations with which we are in daily contact - says that europe is still the world's number one tourist destination today, but that could easily change in the coming years. we have two big obstacles. one is our visa system, and parliament will soon be discussing the visa facilitation, the new visa package. the other is air traffic control, and the restrictions that prevent us from being able to welcome the tens of millions of new tourists that we expect from third countries, such as china, in the coming years. the new aviation regulations are also important for the preservation of jobs and the tourism sector.
in writing. in order to maintain the competitiveness of the civil aviation sector and to maintain the current level of safety, it is essential to update the existing rules.
it's a two-card draw. madam representative, the arguments put forward by the commission representative are broadly identical to those in the united states. there are loopholes there, there are loopholes in europe, but even these loopholes seem to serve the interests of big business. what you've been leading up to, that would be the ultimate way to get the big guys to go free and take everyone else down. do you think that's right?
madam president, the most important task in solving the migrant crisis would be to eliminate the source. this would require international cooperation to bring peace and stability to the countries affected by the arab spring. the decision to set up the african emergency fund is a positive step in ensuring that refugees remain close to their countries of origin. however, at the same time, the protection of the schengen border in greece must be resolved. if that doesn't work, then the fence is left to prevent illegal border crossings, which we hungarians call it, and our austrian friends call it "cap wing". the eu has only tried to manage migration. it is time to stop the migration of people and to protect europe's identity and culture.
i'll close this discussion. the following shall be added to the list of the member states:
in writing. in my view, the key to solving the refugee and migration crisis is to address emerging problems where they arise or as close as possible to where they arise. this is indicated by the fact that the european union has pledged a total of €5.6 billion in financial support for humanitarian purposes in recent weeks, as well as a fund for africa and syria, half of which (€2.8 billion) is from the eu budget and the other half from eu28 contributions. as at 30 october 2015, eur 2,23 billion was still missing from the eur 2,8 billion eu28 contribution pledged by heads of state or government at a summit. besides money, human and technical assistance are far below the required level. the commission's proposal is to set up a european network of national experts to assess the impact of the proposed directive on the environment. i therefore consider it extremely important that member states speed up their contributions to the fund, because every day that passes brings more groups of migrants on the move.
in writing. in 2015, europe faced the most severe migratory pressure in its recent history. the scale and nature of the problem require a common european solution to address the root causes of migration with global action. the european union has pledged a total of €5.6 billion in financial support for humanitarian purposes in recent weeks, as well as a fund for africa and syria, half of which (€2.8 billion) comes from the eu budget and the other half from eu28 contributions. in line with its commitment to help the most vulnerable communities where they live, hungary has offered, among other commitments, a contribution to the community funds of eur 3.4 million. this amount is similar to the contribution of countries of our region with similar capacity. we support our country's efforts to protect europe's borders and to address the conflicts that fuel the wave of immigration where they originate. only global and eu-wide action can effectively tackle the root causes of migration.
in writing.– the ppe has always advocated a holistic approach to migration. the crisis remains serious and the solution to end it is complex by nature. together with managing the migratory flows and protecting our external borders, we must tackle the root causes of migration. the number of africans trying to reach europe over the mediterranean is just the tip of an iceberg compared to the number of displaced people in africa. according to the un refugee agency unhcr, crises in countries like somalia, congo, nigeria, south sudan and the central african republic have forced 15 million people out of their homes. therefore i welcome the initiative of creating the two trust funds which through humanitarian and development aid should bring back stability, support resilience in syria and africa, and help refugees return to their homes. setting up these trust funds is a positive action, and we must make sure that the money will be used in the most efficient way. the support to refugees must be given as close as possible to the country of origin and special attention must be given to children, who are the main victims, deprived of a safe environment, schooling and often even food.
in writing. with the concept of financing funds for syria and africa, the european union is taking another step towards a community solution. hungary has tried to withdraw from previous initiatives that build solidarity between the eu and its member states, but instead the government has turned the country around and developed a refugee policy that is based on systematic rejection of asylum applications, accelerated procedures that violate fundamental human rights in many respects and a virtual disregard for the eu's core values. the european commission has recently written to express its concerns and questions about the hungarian legislation and the undermining of the eu's fundamental values, but the government has since done nothing more than reject the proposal for a quota system as a common solution by a parliamentary decision. it is worrying that while the government communicates its use of eu funds - which are otherwise often desperately corrupt - as its own success, it is using populist language to vilify the union in its handling of the refugee crisis. the hungarian government has so far shown little sign of cooperation, which is also a core value of the eu. despite the fact that the prime minister has already mentioned on several occasions that he does not consider the idea of a financial contribution to be diabolical in the case of turkey, he himself proposed it , on the basis of what has been said, one can only be afraid to trust that this initiative will not be swept off the table in principle.
in writing. i can personally support the commission's proposal to finance two separate funds for assistance to syria and the african countries concerned in response to migration-related burdens. it is, of course, a welcome aspect that this involves the use of resources outside the approved budgetary framework, which the member states offer to support these regions in addition to their other efforts at the expense of the development fund and other community budgetary chapters. at the same time, i consider it a priority that refugees from war-torn syria and from certain african countries subject to persistent migratory pressure are the most serious political and economic challenge facing the european union today, which must be addressed primarily in the sending countries. i believe that this is also in the european interest and that these two funds can make a significant contribution to creating the necessary conditions. i hope that the seriousness of the situation and the support of the ep will encourage the individual member states to replenish the two funds as soon as possible, while in this context i can only express my regret that my own government is so uncooperative in the joint eu response to the refugee crisis.
the next item is the debate on the oral question to the commission by iratxe garcía pérez, on behalf of the committee on women's rights and equal opportunities, on the objectives of the previous daphne programmes in the context of the new rights, equality and citizenship programme (o-000100/2015 2015/2827 (rsp)) - b8-1104/2015.
i thank the honourable member for her remarks and for her question. he spoke so fast to the end that the translators could hardly translate. i understand your concern, your criticism, that you might have wanted to bring the question requiring an oral answer to the front of the agenda. but if you look at the agenda items, you'll almost certainly see that they were at least as important.
i thank the officer for her answer. i agree with you about the importance of efficiency and the importance of tangible results. it's in the interests of the victims that we do this, and how much we do it is our responsibility, officer. i'll close this discussion. the commission shall be assisted by the committee established by article 15 of regulation (eu) no 182/2011.
in writing. it is well known that tackling domestic violence is a complex and long-term process, and the daphne programme, which supports organisations fighting violence against women, children and young people, has a major role to play in this. it is essential that the programme continues to be promoted and financially supported. in hungary, there are currently nearly two million women who have been in a relationship with a partner who has used severe psychological violence, and during their lives, nearly 800,000 women have been subjected to physical violence and nearly 300,000 to sexual violence. in hungary, more than 200,000 women are currently in relationships in which they are victims of physical and/or sexual violence by their partners. the children of these women are also victims of violence, directly or indirectly. every week in hungary, at least one woman is murdered by her husband or ex-husband, partner or ex-partner, boyfriend or ex-boyfriend. in the light of the shocking figures and the inaction of the hungarian government over the past five years, it is imperative that the eu take stronger action against violence against women, children and young people. the different regulations in the 28 member states provide unequal protection for those who need it against different forms of violence. improving the current framework, joint action against domestic violence would make a major contribution to the protection of women, children and young people, their equal rights in the eu, and would be an important step towards a community based on shared values and the protection of human rights.
the next item is: the president shall be assisted by a judge.
madam president, at the beginning of the 20th century and throughout, large quantities of asbestos were used throughout europe, with such serious health consequences that it is estimated that up to 500 000 people could die from this respiratory disease caused by asbestos by 2030. the use of asbestos has been banned in the union since 1 january 2005, but this is not a complete solution as it is present in buildings in an unchanged form and therefore a european asbestos fund would be needed to help remove asbestos from public and private buildings. the other problem is the compensation of those who have suffered health damage, because the states - and, where appropriate, hungary - do not accept the claims made by those who have fallen ill in the state-owned asbestos factory in compensation cases, which must be resolved at the court level.
madam president, the fall of the post-communist government led by victor ponta is a great blessing for romania. but the people on the street are also demanding an end to the "murderous corruption" of which the young people who suffered the accident and romanian society itself have become victims. along with corruption, the romanian political class should once and for all get rid of the xenophobic anti-hungarianism inherited from the ceaușescu dictatorship. more than a change of government, romania needs a real change of regime. the country could soon become a hotbed of migration from the middle east or even ukraine. the looming migration crisis, however, can only be effectively tackled by a stable democratic government. as a member of the schengen area free of corruption, together with hungary romania could also play an effective part in protecting the external borders of the union.
we now turn to the voting grounds.
in writing. ‒ the report is about the creation of a programme for interoperability solutions for european public administrations, businesses and citizens (isa2). as such, it is a continuation of the isa programme, which provides public services in eu member states with easy access to each other's databases and requires only one digitisation of key information. the isa programme covered the period 2010 to 2015 and isa2 covered the period 2016 to 2020, and eur 131 million was approved for this purpose. interoperability means matching systems that cooperate in terms of access to, retrieval and processing of each other's databases. as an example of the content of the programme, directive 2012/17/eu of the european parliament and of the council in the area of company law requires that the central registers, commercial registers and companies registers of the member states be mutually accessible through a central platform. by linking business registers, the information contained therein is made accessible across borders, thereby allowing access to data on businesses at union level for both businesses and citizens, which enhances legal certainty in the business environment in the union. on these grounds, i supported the adoption of the report.
in writing. ‒ the commitment of member states is key to the rapid emergence of an interoperable e-society in the union and the involvement of public administrations in promoting the use of online procedures. furthermore, some adjustments to european administrations may be necessary in addition to the support provided by member states in order to create a more efficient, simpler and user-friendly egovernment. efficient online public services are key to enhancing business and citizens' trust in digital services. it is therefore important that the policy on interoperability and its possible uses is coordinated at union level in the most efficient and flexible way possible for the end-user. in order to eliminate fragmentation of the interoperability environment in the union, it is necessary to promote a common interpretation of interoperability accepted across the union and a comprehensive approach to interoperability solutions. the report points in that direction, which is why i voted in favour of its adoption.
in writing. ‒ the first agreement reached between the ep and the council has provided a satisfactory solution to all the issues raised in the parliament's position, which i support. the text provides a good basis for overcoming electronic barriers between member states' administrations, ensuring cross-border interoperability, exploiting the opportunities offered by new technologies, creating an open and flexible environment to accommodate new challenges and opportunities, and introducing solutions to help smes. for these reasons, in accordance with the line of the european people's party, i voted in favour of adopting the text of the first lomé convention.
in writing. ‒ the isa programme will end on 31 december 2015 and will be replaced by the isa2 framework programme for 2016-2020. the objectives of isa2 are to develop a comprehensive approach to interoperability, to facilitate efficient and effective electronic communications across borders and sectors between european public administrations and bodies, and between businesses and citizens, and to explore, develop and operate interoperability solutions to support the implementation of union policies and activities. the visa information system, the second generation of the schengen information system, the european fingerprint identification system and the european e-justice portal are excellent examples of enhanced interoperability between member states. coordination at european level also plays an important role in the sharing and dissemination of best practice. as a member of the hungarian delegation to the people's party, i supported the new framework programme isa2 in accordance with the people's party proposal.
in writing. ‒ the inter-governmental data exchange programme has been serving the exchange of data within public administrations and between public administrations and the eu institutions since 1995. the commission has now proposed a decision of the parliament and the council to launch a programme that would open up the possibility to businesses and citizens alike. the report highlights the need to strengthen the service-providing nature of public administration, in particular by meeting the needs of the civil sector for data. i voted for the motion to pass.
in writing. ‒ the dismantling of the so-called e-border has been a process for several years and is now producing tangible results, for example in the functioning of the european institutions. programmes have been set up (ida, idabc and isa) which have made a significant contribution to the electronic exchange of information between the european institutions. i supported the report because i believe it is important to close the digital divide - not just the physical one - at all levels, for the benefit of the public sector, businesses and citizens. i agree with the report that interoperability offers significant opportunities for data protection and for stronger cross-border cooperation and that the responsible use of these opportunities can bring significant benefits in terms of growth and efficiency. i believe that this can also contribute to achieving the objectives of the european semester. the isa2 (2016-2020) programme, which replaces the isa programme, which expires on 31 december 2015, takes into account the conclusions of the impact studies carried out in recent years and i am confident that the approximately eur 131 million instrument will make measurable progress in digital interoperability.
in writing. ‒ the proposal provides for the launch of the programme on interoperability solutions for european public administrations, businesses and citizens (isa2), which is the long-awaited continuation and further development of the previous programmes (ida, idabc, isa). the commission shall be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 26 to supplement this regulation by laying down detailed rules on the application of this regulation. this ensures that data protection requirements are taken into account in the development phase of interoperability solutions for the processing of personal data. i voted in favor of the final motion.
madam president, i have rejected the european union's proposal for electoral reform. i can only say that the rapporteur makes it difficult for the distribution of seats in the european parliament to be decided not by a european election but by 28 national elections for national seats. it should be noted that, as much as many people would like to, we have not yet reached the united states of europe, there are still nation states, not just provinces. this proposal itself is taking us where we hope we will never get. he's talking about a common electoral organisation in the european union. he wants to create a common electoral district, with the candidate of the political families at the head of the lists nominated for the presidency. we don't know how many seats they're going to get, so it's pretty clear that this is a proposal made in the belief that we've already counted the number of nation states. let's hope it doesn't work.
in writing. ‒ although the lisbon treaty allows the european parliament to determine its own electoral procedure, changing electoral procedures remains in many respects a competence of the member states. the report contains several proposals which indirectly envisage constitutional amendments and may even violate the principle of subsidiarity, which is why i did not support the hübner-leinen report.
in writing. ‒ although the lisbon treaty allows the european parliament to determine its own electoral procedure, changing electoral procedures remains in many respects a competence of the member states. the report contains several proposals which indirectly envisage constitutional amendments and may even violate the principle of subsidiarity, which is why i did not support the hübner-leinen report.
in writing. ‒ although the lisbon treaty allows the european parliament to determine its own electoral procedure, changing electoral procedures remains in many respects a competence of the member states. the report contains several proposals which indirectly envisage constitutional amendments and may even violate the principle of subsidiarity, which is why i did not support the hübner-leinen report.
in writing. ‒ although the lisbon treaty allows the european parliament to determine its own electoral procedure, changing electoral procedures remains in many respects a competence of the member states. several of the proposals in the report indirectly propose constitutional amendments, and thus may violate the principle of subsidiarity. for these reasons, i did not support the hübner-leinen report.
in writing. ‒ although the lisbon treaty allows the european parliament to determine its own electoral procedure, changing electoral procedures remains in many respects a competence of the member states. this report, with its many proposals, may even indirectly require constitutional amendments. that would be a violation of the principle of subsidiarity, and i did not support the hübner-leinen report.
in writing. ‒ meps do not act as representatives of their member states, but as representatives of the citizens of the union. however, the various political ideas and interests represented in the european parliament are not presented to voters in the run-up to the european elections. election campaigns are primarily conducted on the national political battlefield, so eu citizens are not aware of the actual politics that their vote may bring about. for many voters, the relationship between their national parties and their european political family is not even clear. voting is the main means of democratic participation, but the outdated system governing european elections prevents eu citizens from participating in european political debate. the current degree of heterogeneity of national electoral rules is contrary to the idea of european union citizenship and the principle of equality. citizens of the union, irrespective of their nationality, should be able to exercise their right to vote under similar conditions respecting democratic principles. the report of the constitutional affairs committee proposes that the european parliament should initiate a reform of the european electoral act in order to bridge the gap between the european institutions and the electorate separated by nationality and to ensure equal treatment for all eu citizens. i fully agree with the report and therefore support it unreservedly.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the reform of the electoral law of the european union, which rightly highlighted the many differences in the electoral procedure for the european parliament in the member states, which prevent eu citizens from exercising their voting rights under the same conditions. as the report stressed, harmonisation in these areas would indeed promote the political dimension of european integration. the report highlighted a number of points, such as strengthening the role of european political parties in raising european political awareness, standardising the nomination procedure for candidates running for the european parliament elections, or banning the early publication of election results, which would not only increase the efficiency of the system for holding european elections, but also enhance the democratic legitimacy of the eu decision-making process. i also support the timing of the implementation of the reform well in advance of the 2019 european elections.
in writing. ‒ although the treaty of rome already provided for the possibility of developing a uniform electoral procedure based on universal suffrage in 1957, elections to the european parliament are still mainly determined by national electoral rules. the distribution of seats in the european parliament is not decided by a european election but by 28 national elections for national seats. this is in sharp contrast to the european parliament's role as a genuine european body and co-legislator on an equal footing within the eu's institutional framework. in addition to the need to strengthen the european dimension of european elections, the current degree of heterogeneity of national electoral rules is contrary to the idea of european union citizenship and the principle of equality. while harmonisation is not an objective, citizens of the union, irrespective of their nationality, should be able to exercise their right to vote under similar conditions respecting democratic principles. in order to bridge the gap between the european institutions and the electorate, which is separated by nationality, and to ensure equal treatment for all citizens of the union, the european parliament is determined to take the initiative to reform the european electoral charter, in accordance with its rights under article 223 (1) tfeu. i voted in favor of the final motion.
in writing. ‒ the european commission will present its future aviation package in december, which will, among other things, update civil aviation regulations, revise the mandate of the european aviation safety agency and is expected to include eu-wide regulation of drones. in order to maintain the competitiveness of the sector and to maintain the current level of safety, it is essential to update the existing rules. the european parliament has already said this on several occasions and after lengthy negotiations it has adopted its own resolution. the three large groups (epp, s&d and alde) managed to reach an agreement and adopt a text that reflects the position of the epp and is also in line with hungarian interests, which is why i voted in favour of adopting the motion for a resolution.
in writing. ‒ the european commission will present its future aviation package in december, which will, among other things, update civil aviation regulations, revise the mandate of the european aviation safety agency and is expected to include eu-wide regulation of drones. in order to maintain the competitiveness of the sector and to maintain the current level of safety, it is essential to update the existing rules. the european parliament has already said this on several occasions and after lengthy negotiations it has adopted its own resolution. the three large groups (epp, s&d and alde) managed to reach an agreement and adopt a text that reflects the position of the epp and is also in line with hungarian interests, which is why i was able to vote in favour of adopting the motion for a resolution.
in writing. ‒ the european commission will present its future aviation package in december, which will, among other things, update civil aviation regulations, review the mandate of the european aviation safety agency and, it is expected, include eu-wide regulation of drones. in order to maintain the competitiveness of the sector and to maintain the current level of safety, it is essential to update the existing rules. the european parliament has already said this on several occasions and after lengthy negotiations it has adopted its own resolution. the three large groups, epp, s&d and alde, managed to reach an agreement and adopt a text that reflects the position of the people's party and is also in line with hungarian interests, which is why i was able to vote in favour of adopting the motion for a resolution.
in writing. ‒ the european commission will present its future aviation package in december, which will, among other things, update civil aviation regulations, review the mandate of the european aviation safety agency and, it is expected, include eu-wide regulation of drones. in order to maintain the competitiveness of the sector and to maintain the current level of safety, it is essential to update the existing rules. this has been pointed out by the european parliament on several occasions. the resolution that has been adopted reflects the position of the people's party and is also in line with hungarian interests, which is why i voted in favour of adopting the motion for a resolution.
in writing. ‒ the european commission will present the new aviation package in december. this will include updating civil aviation standards, revising the mandate of the european aviation safety agency and is expected to include eu-wide regulation of drones. in order to maintain the competitiveness of the sector and to maintain the current level of safety, it is essential to renew the current rules. the european parliament has already said this on several occasions and after lengthy negotiations it has adopted its own resolution. the 3 large groups (epp, s&d and alde) managed to agree and adopt a text that reflects the position of the people's party and is also in line with hungarian interests. i was therefore able to vote in favour of the adoption of the motion for a resolution.
in writing. ‒ a motion for a resolution was tabled on this subject by the ppe, verts/ale, alde, efdd, ecr, gue/ngl and s&d groups, among which the ppe, alde and s&d reached agreement and drew up a joint compromise proposal. i voted for this motion.
in writing. ‒ the aviation sector in europe directly supported 2.6 million jobs and contributed more than 2.4% to eu gdp. the commission notes that the airport services agreement concluded between ryanair and ams was signed on 30 june 2013 and that the agreement was signed on 1 july 2013. i agree with the resolution that an aviation package should provide the impetus towards a more sustainable and competitive european aviation sector, strengthen european airlines, airports and the aviation industry, ensure a level playing field in the world market and develop a long-term strategy for europe's aviation sector. i believe that the aerospace industry can make a significant contribution to growth and job creation in the eu, but only if we can also strengthen competitiveness. in terms of implementation, i agree that innovation is a prerequisite for a competitive european aviation sector and that the elements of protection of workers and consumers must also be taken into account. that is why i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution.
in writing. ‒ the aviation sector directly created 2.6 million jobs in 2012, while european airlines have cut more than 20 000 jobs since 2012. the commission notes that the airport services agreement concluded between ryanair and ams was signed on 28 june 2013 and entered into force on 1 january 2013. the commission notes that the airport services agreement concluded between ryanair and ams was signed on 20 june 2013 and entered into force on 1 january 2013. the geographical shift in overnight stays to other non-eu countries in recent years raises the question of how the eu can maintain its position as the number one tourist destination. the resolution seeks to address these issues by improving the competitiveness of the aviation sector, its international dimension, the social agenda of the aviation sector and ensuring a high level of safety in european airspace. the commission notes that the aid granted to ryanair and ams is limited to the minimum necessary to cover the costs of the airport services agreement with ryanair. proactive policy-making, a level playing field and a global approach are needed. more direct flights between the eu and third countries, for example between the eu and china, with a stronger involvement of regional airports. this can only be achieved through an efficient and simplified visa policy. i voted in favor of the final motion.
i call a recess to the european parliament. this court is adjourned. (the sitting was closed at 12 noon)
it's a two-card draw. i would like to ask the honourable member if, in theory, this many bilateral or regional agreements could be formed, would you think that a global agreement could be formed from them? i don't think so, but i'd like to hear your opinion.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the animal welfare measures are effective and that they are not disrupted. however, the strategy should focus on innovation, education and coherence between the different financial funds. i would point out that animal welfare standards in the eu are already high, as my colleague mr de castro has said, and that we can reduce the negative effects of intensive animal husbandry. of course, it is very difficult to raise this high level any further, and let us not forget that most farm animals would no longer be able to survive in a domesticated, natural environment. we should encourage countries outside the eu to adopt our practices. the strategy could also include references to pet animals, as the parliament, the european parliament, pointed out in 2012, but despite this, there is still no coherence between the legislation. we should not be lenient with them just because we do not eat them.
in writing. - my fellow members of parliament! i fully agree with the position of the european people's party that in the present situation when the security of europe is in doubt and when there is a need to unite in all areas, there is a need to discuss unnecessary and pointless animal welfare issues, potential problems. this is supported by the fact that the eu currently has the highest animal welfare standards in the world, and thus sets an example for the world. far more than that, an effective solution should be found to make it more difficult for foodstuffs to enter the eu if they are not produced using animal husbandry standards equivalent to eu rules. this is about the competitiveness of farmers who comply with strict animal welfare requirements, so the european commission and the other eu institutions and agencies should do everything possible to ensure that only food produced in accordance with requirements equivalent to eu rules is allowed into the eu.
in writing. the european parliament's report on the eradication of child poverty calls for european solutions in a number of important areas, of which adequate nutrition and access to education and health care are of paramount importance. however, the report cannot make country-specific recommendations on specific and complex problems in the member states and does not go beyond the level of generalisation. however, this initial step is an expression of determination that can become an important factor in member states where child poverty affects the population to a large extent. in hungary, at least 550,000 children currently do not have access to a daily hot meal during school holidays and nearly 50,000 children go hungry every day. this makes it the third worst country in europe for child poverty. the seriousness of the problem is that the hungarian government considers child hunger a problem it has long solved, and therefore did not support the recently launched civil initiative to eliminate this problem, which was supported by all other hungarian parties; instead, the hungarian government swept the initiative off the table, citing political expediency. while the decisions and actions of the european institutions are no substitute for active action by member state governments in the fight against child poverty, it is nevertheless important that the european institutions reflect in a comprehensive, forward-looking and exemplary way on the complex and specific problems faced by member states.
in writing. the european union's action at international level is based on the principles of democracy, the rule of law, equality, solidarity, the universality and indivisibility of human rights and fundamental freedoms and respect for human dignity. i would like to remind you that the principles and objectives of the eu's foreign policy are closely linked to the objectives of the un. the challenges facing the eu require global solutions, and global problems require effective eu action. it therefore needs global partners to achieve its objectives, namely in the areas of peace and security and the prevention of the spread of terrorism. i am convinced that the union must continue to work towards strengthening global governance within the un. in the context of the migration and refugee crisis affecting europe, it is important to address the crisis in a more cooperative manner than before and inter alia to help to remedy the economic situation and sustainable development of the countries of origin of migration.
mr. president, it's now 3⁄4 11 o'clock at night, and the clock above the european flags is ticking, and i've been anxiously awaiting this time again, because i have to tell you, i have to make a point with everyone. i know that we are all very afraid of terrorist acts. i know that there are governments, political forces that have used the last period to spread anti-refugee propaganda. but let's face it: the real problem is in european society today. and that's why i have to talk about the issue of child poverty. in europe, 26 million children are poor today, one in four of them. in hungary, that number, that ratio, is a terrible 41.4%. i have to tell you that we have to do something about this, and that is why i am calling your attention to the fact that we are voting tomorrow on a resolution on ending child poverty, and that governments should then take note of the fact that we have to put in place a common will, we have to work together to end child poverty, because that is not healthy development in europe.
mr president, the energy union strategy includes decarbonisation as a tool for eu climate policy. the only alternative to fossil fuels is mentioned in eu documents: renewable energy. that alone is not a solution. even commissioner šefčovič himself cannot get the wind to blow and the sun to shine when consumers demand it. and maybe we should also consider the high energy costs, the amount of support that these need. the use of nuclear energy, which is considered to be clean energy in terms of carbon dioxide emissions, should not be neglected either. and i want to draw your attention to the fact that in the fall of 2014, four prominent american environmental scientists issued an open letter in support of the use of nuclear energy.
it's a two-card draw. mr. deputy, i have great respect for the unprecedented work you are personally doing in the field of european energy, but i would respectfully ask you: do you or your party have the courage to set a target of getting rid of all fossil fuels, which only emit carbon dioxide, by a certain time, say by 2050?
mr president, i would like to speak about one aspect of the commission's thorough and good report, the issue of competitiveness. european industry is suffering from high energy prices and regulatory burdens. lower energy prices are essential to boost the competitiveness of the european economy. however, the path to a competitive european industry operating at low energy prices is often a bumpy one. let me give you hungary as an example, where industrial consumers pay above the oecd average for gas, even though the country has invested hundreds of millions of euros in new infrastructure development in recent years. it has also built new connections to three neighbouring countries and a two-way link to ukraine. hungary has therefore done a lot to diversify, thereby making gas prices competitive, but we are not seeing the results. this is because some of the new infrastructure is still only one-way, outbound from hungary, and there is still no new source available in the region, no diversification, no competitive prices. the solution is, of course, to complete the missing two-way links on the one hand and to build the lng terminal in croatia on the other, so that there is competition for gas in the region. the lesson is that the benefits of the single market can only be reaped if all actors strive to contribute to the common goals. only then can european industry be globally competitive.
in writing. - mr president, i have to go. in the midst of the refugee crisis, we must pay sufficient attention to the energy security of europe and hungary. we cannot remain silent about the fact that russia could again use energy as a political weapon and could at any time close the natural gas pipelines to ukraine, thus endangering the winter gas supply of hungarian households. not to mention the irresponsible way the hungarian government has been charging gas tanks to only one third before the winter heating season. this once again shows that only the european union can protect us from russian dependence. the billions of dollars in nuclear energy investments made by the hungarians and the russians will eventually be consumed by the majority of hungarian households, while a few close to the government will rub their hands. the uk is a consistent supporter of the early establishment of the european energy union. we believe that the commission should negotiate energy agreements on behalf of the 500 million european citizens, not national governments who fear for their national sovereignty. we can't rely on russian gas alone for our future. but in the last five years, we've fallen behind by a decade in both renewable energy and energy efficiency, and lng investments are lagging. in lithuania, for example, where there is an alternative to russian gas, heating bills have fallen by a quarter in the last few months. the energy union is not a threat to our sovereignty, but to hungary's energy security, the depository of hungary's persistently low state accounts.
mr president, consumer protection has now become a central element of eu activity. it wasn't all like this five or six years ago, when these markets were on the verge of collapse and most consumers were unprotected. that is why the work of mr langen is important - and i thank him - for this milestone, after three years of work, to bring this matter to a satisfactory conclusion. we're taking a big step to increase transparency, to increase trust, to increase self-sufficiency. the member states, of course, did their part, and new and new legislation was born. we're at the point where we have 28 different pieces of legislation, and i think we need to take a step towards harmonization. of course, this harmonisation measure must not be a new obstacle on this particular market, but must be supportive. there are steps in the amendment of the directive that can be done with absolutely uniform support, such as training, such as agreement on information requirements. there are also some where there was not that great consensus: transparency, especially transparency on the remuneration of insurance brokers. i cannot support the idea that the european commission should tell us how much this prize is. i think it depends very much on the culture of the member states and on the capacity of the economy to bear the burden. but it does have transparency and reporting.
in writing. ‒ improving the transparency of eu law is an essential element of the strategy to improve the quality of legislation that is being implemented by the eu institutions. in this context, it is appropriate to repeal acts which no longer serve any purpose. a number of acts of the schengen acquis are no longer relevant, either because of their temporary nature or because their content has been taken over by subsequent acts. it follows from the foregoing that i voted in favour of the adoption of the report.
in writing. ‒ we from the fidesz party (epp group) voted in favour of this report on the proposal for a decision of the european parliament and of the council repealing certain acts in the area of freedom security and justice. the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs recommended that the position of the european parliament adopted at first reading under the ordinary legislative procedure should amend the commission proposal. with this vote we change the type of act from ‘decision’ to ‘regulation’. in accordance with the article 288 tfeu, a regulation is binding in its entirety and directly applicable in all member states and will better serve the purpose of the proposal to repeal the acts deemed to be obsolete. with this vote we also seek to improve the drafting of the act, including an addition in the title stating that the repealed acts in question are part of the schengen acquis. we also clarify that denmark is not bound by the regulation or subject to its application, but that it shall decide, within a period of six months after the council has decided on this regulation, whether to implement it in its national law.
in writing. ‒ i would like to explain my vote by stating that i am aware that the commission, on the basis of the review it has carried out and in line with its obligations under the interinstitutional agreement and its policy of targeted regulation, has put forward a proposal and concluded that a number of outdated legal acts should be repealed. this was the result of the examination carried out by the commission in the context of the expiry of the transitional period laid down in the treaty on the functioning of the european union on transitional provisions with regard to the schengen acquis and the legal instruments in the field of police and judicial cooperation in criminal matters. the commission found that a number of acts were obsolete because their content had been taken over by later acts or because they were of a temporary nature.
in writing. the european parliament has today put three items on its agenda for clarifying and clarifying the legal aspects of the outdated provisions of the schengen agreement. obviously, as the most important border patrol duties. i can almost see it: a slippery old man in a chair, curled up in a cube-shaped skirt, happily blowing his pipe, browsing a 20-year-old newspaper, his back to the fireplace. meanwhile, the carpet was on fire from the heat of the fire, the curtains were on fire, and then the whole house.
in writing. ‒ the commission's analysis of the schengen acquis and police and judicial cooperation in criminal matters found that 11 decisions of the schengen executive committee were obsolete because their content was taken over by later legislation, and council regulation (ec) no 189/2008 of 18 february 2008 on the testing of the second generation of the schengen information system (sis ii) was obsolete when sis ii became operational on 9 april 2013. it therefore proposed that a decision of the european parliament and of the council be adopted repealing them. in its report, the committee on civil liberties, home affairs and justice recommended that the draft be adopted by parliament, proposing that the type of act be changed from a regulation to a decision, as a regulation is binding in its entirety and directly applicable in all member states and better serves the purpose of the proposal. i supported the bill.
in writing. ‒ i supported the proposal because i attach great importance to the quality and transparency of european union legislation. this is particularly relevant in the case of regulation covered by the schengen agreement, in order to respond to new challenges that are emerging (such as terrorism). as the report points out, the acts proposed for repeal, or certain elements thereof, have been found to be outdated, replaced by new legislation or contain provisions which were partly intended to be transitional in nature, following a review after the transitional period provided for by the legislation. the proposed amendments also take account of the special legal relationship that the eu has with certain member states (denmark, united kingdom) and certain non-member states (iceland, norway, switzerland, liechtenstein) in its cooperation under the schengen agreement.
in writing. ‒ improving the transparency of eu law is an essential element of the strategy to improve the quality of legislation that is being implemented by the eu institutions. in this context, it is appropriate to remove from the existing legislation those which no longer serve any purpose. that's why i voted for the motion.
in writing. ‒ improving the transparency of eu law is an essential element of the strategy to improve the quality of legislation that is being implemented by the eu institutions. in this context, it is appropriate to repeal those of the existing acts which no longer serve any purpose. a number of acts adopted in the area of police and judicial cooperation in criminal matters and included in the schengen acquis are no longer relevant, either because of their temporary nature or because their content has been taken over by subsequent acts. in agreement with the people's party delegation, i voted in favour of the adoption of the report.
in writing. ‒ we from the fidesz party (epp group) voted in favour of this report on the proposal for a decision of the european parliament and of the council repealing certain acts in the field of police cooperation and judicial cooperation in criminal matters. the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs recommended that the position of the european parliament adopted at first reading under the ordinary legislative procedure should amend the commission proposal. with this vote we change the type of act from ‘decision’ to ‘regulation’. in accordance with the article 288 tfeu a regulation is binding in its entirety and directly applicable in all member states and will better serve the purpose of the proposal to repeal the acts deemed to be obsolete. the new text will improve the drafting of the act, including an addition in the title specifying that the repealed acts in question belong to the schengen acquis, and adapting the recitals to the uk’s position after the expiry of the transitional period set out in protocol no 36 to the treaties.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report in which, in line with the relevant amendment proposed by the council in its general approach and adopted by the commission, the rapporteur proposes that the decision of the executive committee on the agreement on cooperation in road traffic infringement proceedings be included among the withdrawn acts. furthermore, in view of the amendments made by the council to the commission proposal, and after consulting the legal service of the european parliament, the rapporteur proposes to change the type of the act to a regulation on a decision. pursuant to article 288 tfeu, the regulation is to be binding in its entirety and directly applicable in all member states and better serves the purpose of the proposal, which is to repeal acts deemed to be obsolete.
in writing. ‒ in its analysis referred to in the previous point, the commission found that the decisions of the schengen executive committee (sch/com-ex (93) 14 and (98) 52 (on the police handbook) on the fight against drug trafficking and the commission's statement (sch/com-ex (97) 13 decl rev 2 on the illegal conduct of minors) had become obsolete because their content had been taken over by subsequent acts. in addition, council decision 2008/173/jha on the testing of the second generation of the schengen information system (sis ii) has become obsolete, as sis ii became operational on 9 april 2013. it therefore proposed that a decision of the european parliament and of the council be adopted repealing them. in its report, the committee on civil liberties, home affairs and justice recommended the draft to parliament for adoption, including the decision of the executive committee on the agreement on cooperation in road traffic offences among the acts withdrawn. that decision never entered into force and no member state has made a declaration under article 20 (3) concerning the application of the agreement between the member states which have ratified it. the report also proposes to change the type of act to a regulation on a decision, as a regulation is binding in its entirety and directly applicable in all member states and better serves the purpose of the proposal. i supported the bill.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of repealing the acts contained in the report, given that i attach great importance to the quality and transparency of european union legislation. in the case of legislation covered by schengen cooperation, it is particularly important and useful to clean up the agreement after the transitional period from elements that were intended to be transitional in nature or that have become obsolete or covered by new legislation, for which the report provides a precise overview and a well-founded proposal. i also considered the current aspect that it is precisely in the police and justice field that a transparent, flexible and modern legal environment that promotes effective law enforcement and law enforcement is most essential to respond to the new challenges facing europe today (terrorism, drug abuse, etc.).
in writing. ‒ a number of acts adopted in the area of police and judicial cooperation in criminal matters and included in the schengen acquis are no longer relevant, as they are of a temporary nature or have been replaced by subsequent acts, but the original acts have not been repealed. so i voted in favour of the motion.
in writing. ‒ improving the transparency of eu law is an essential element of the strategy to improve the quality of legislation that is being implemented by the eu institutions. in this context, it is appropriate to repeal those of the existing acts which no longer serve any purpose. a number of acts adopted in the field of police and judicial cooperation in criminal matters are no longer relevant, either because they are temporary or because their content has been taken over by subsequent acts. in the light of the above, i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ we from the fidesz party (epp group) voted in favour of this report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council repealing certain acts in the field of police cooperation and judicial cooperation in criminal matters. the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs recommended that the position of the european parliament adopted at first reading under the ordinary legislative procedure should amend the commission proposal. among other things, we introduced a transitional provision stipulating that any european evidence warrant executed under framework decision 2008/978/jha shall continue to be governed by that instrument until the relevant criminal proceedings have been concluded with a definitive decision. the new text will improve the drafting of the act, clarifying the position of the uk in view of its decision in accordance with article 10(4) of protocol 36 and the use of a regulation as a legal instrument for repealing certain acts whose legal basis after the lisbon treaty requires adoption of a directive.
in writing. ‒ in order to ensure legal certainty and clarity, i agree with the priorities identified in the report. in line with the amendments proposed by the council in its general approach and adopted by the commission, and after consulting the legal service of the european parliament, the rapporteur proposes amendments to repeal the obsolete legal act concerning the convention of 17 june 1998 on the prohibition of driving and council act 98/c 216/01. this is an important issue because the convention needs to be ratified by all 15 signatory states for it to enter into force. however, only seven countries ratified the convention and it never entered into force. it has therefore lost its relevance in union law and should be repealed.
in writing. ‒ in its analysis of the schengen acquis and police and judicial cooperation in criminal matters referred to in point 1, the commission found that seven council joint actions were obsolete because their content had been taken over by subsequent acts. furthermore, the council act establishing the staff regulations of europol staff is outdated as it applies only to a very limited number of employment contracts concluded before the adoption of council decision 2009/371/jha on europol, of which very few are currently in force and are due to expire. in its report, the committee on civil liberties, home affairs and justice recommended the draft to parliament for adoption, proposing also the repeal of the convention on the prohibition on the use of motor vehicles of 17 june 1998 and of council act 98/c 216/01 and of council framework decision 2008/978/jha on the european evidence warrant for the purpose of obtaining objects, documents and data to be used in criminal proceedings. the former no longer applies to any member state and has therefore lost its relevance in union law, while the latter has been replaced by directive 2014/41/eu of the european parliament and of the council on european investigation decisions in criminal matters. finally, the report makes a recommendation to improve the wording of the legislation and to add a new recital. i supported the bill.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the package of amendments to the report on certain areas of police and judicial cooperation between member states, in particular with a view to ensuring better quality, modernity and transparency of european union legislation. the report also highlights the issue of legal certainty, which i consider to be of paramount importance for citizens' confidence in eu cooperation. legislation that is outdated or that is not in force as originally intended (such as the convention on the driving ban) or that has been replaced by more modern and more far-reaching legislation (such as the 2014 framework decision on the european investigation order, which replaced the european evidence warrant) should be repealed. i am convinced that by approving these proposals, the ep will make a significant contribution to improving the effectiveness of police and judicial cooperation between member states, which is essential for the successful fight against cross-border crime and for strengthening the security of european citizens.
in writing. ‒ improving the transparency of eu law is an essential element of the strategy to improve the quality of legislation that is being implemented by the eu institutions. in this context, it is appropriate to remove from the existing legislation those which no longer serve any purpose.
in writing. ‒ in line with the european people's party's line, i voted in favour of the eu joining the commission for the protection of southern bluefin tuna as a regional economic integration organisation. the eu has so far fully adopted the recommendations of the committee, which clearly show that the european union is forced to limit its sea fishing to the extent necessary to maintain marine fish stocks. 30% of the world's oceans are overfished, and marine fish stocks are in danger. the reasoned measures taken to maintain them have led to a continuous and significant decline in the amount of marine fish caught. the cfp should therefore pay much more attention to sustainable fisheries, i.e. aquaculture, and in particular freshwater fisheries. a significant part of the hungarian wetlands is located in natura 2000 areas. these fish farms do not represent any threat to the natural values of these areas. in fact, in many cases it is our closed systems of wetlands that have created and preserved unique associations of aquatic habitats. therefore, freshwater aquaculture should be given priority and maximum support from the union. moreover, this area should be freed from unnecessarily stringent and unnecessary sustainability standards that are justified only for marine fisheries.
in writing. in line with the european people's party's line, i voted in favour of the eu joining the commission for the protection of southern bluefin tuna as a regional economic integration organisation. the eu has so far fully adopted the recommendations of the committee, which clearly show that the european union is forced to limit its sea fishing to the extent necessary to maintain marine fish stocks. 30% of the world's oceans are overfished, and marine fish stocks are in danger. the reasoned measures taken to maintain them have led to a continuous and significant decline in the amount of marine fish caught. the cfp should therefore pay much more attention to sustainable fisheries, i.e. aquaculture, and in particular freshwater fisheries. a significant part of the hungarian wetlands is located in natura 2000 areas. these fish farms do not represent any threat to the natural values of these areas. in fact, in many cases it is our closed systems of wetlands that have created and preserved unique associations of aquatic habitats. therefore, freshwater aquaculture should be given priority and maximum support from the union. moreover, this area should be freed from unnecessarily stringent and unnecessary sustainability standards that are justified only for marine fisheries.
in writing. ‒ in line with the european people's party's line, i voted in favour of the eu joining the commission for the protection of southern bluefin tuna as a regional economic integration organisation. the eu has so far fully adopted the recommendations of the committee, which clearly show that the european union is forced to limit its sea fishing to the extent necessary to maintain marine fish stocks. 30% of the world's oceans are overfished, and marine fish stocks are in danger. the reasoned measures taken to maintain them have led to a continuous and significant decline in the amount of marine fish caught. the cfp should therefore pay much more attention to sustainable fisheries, i.e. aquaculture, and in particular freshwater fisheries. a significant part of the hungarian wetlands is located in natura 2000 areas. these fish farms do not represent any threat to the natural values of these areas. in fact, in many cases it is our closed systems of wetlands that have created and preserved unique associations of aquatic habitats. therefore, freshwater aquaculture should be given priority and maximum support from the union. moreover, this area should be freed from unnecessarily stringent and unnecessary sustainability standards that are justified only for marine fisheries.
in writing. ‒ in line with the european people's party's line, i voted in favour of the eu joining the committee for the protection of bluefin tuna as a regional economic integration organisation. the eu has so far fully adopted the recommendations of the committee, which clearly show that the european union is forced to limit its sea fishing to the extent necessary to maintain marine fish stocks. 30% of the world's oceans are overfished, and marine fish stocks are in danger. the reasoned measures taken to maintain them have led to a continuous and significant decline in the amount of marine fish caught. the cfp should therefore pay much more attention to sustainable fisheries, i.e. aquaculture, and in particular freshwater fisheries. a significant part of the hungarian wetlands is located in natura 2000 areas. these fish farms do not represent any threat to the natural values of these areas. in fact, in many cases it is our closed systems of wetlands that have created and preserved unique associations of aquatic habitats. therefore, freshwater aquaculture should be given priority and maximum support from the union. moreover, this area should be freed from unnecessarily stringent and unnecessary sustainability standards that are justified only for marine fisheries.
in writing. ‒ i think it is very important that the eu is taking an active role in the regional fisheries management organisation, which already has 6 tuna farms. the purpose of the proposal is to allow an exchange of letters between the eu and the extended committee of the convention for the conservation of southern bluefin tuna (ccsbt). the eu would gain full membership of the enlarged committee of the csce instead of its current non-member cooperating party status by signing this international legal instrument. the european union is a non-member cooperating party to the enlarged committee of the ccsbt since 2006. in view of the relevance of the matter and the above, i support the council's presentation of this proposal for a decision in order to participate as a full member in the work of the ccsbt, with which the rapporteur fully agrees, and i ask the committee to give a favourable opinion on the proposal.
in writing. ‒ in line with the european people's party's line, i voted in favour of the eu joining the commission for the protection of southern bluefin tuna as a regional economic integration organisation. the eu has so far fully adopted the recommendations of the committee, which clearly show that the european union is forced to limit its sea fishing to the extent necessary to maintain marine fish stocks. 30% of the world's oceans are overfished, and marine fish stocks are in danger. the reasoned measures taken to maintain them have led to a continuous and significant decline in the amount of marine fish caught. the cfp should therefore pay much more attention to sustainable fisheries, i.e. aquaculture, and in particular freshwater fisheries.
in writing. ‒ in line with the european people's party's line, i voted in favour of the eu joining the committee for the protection of bluefin tuna as a regional economic integration organisation. the eu has so far fully adopted the recommendations of the committee. these clearly show that the european union is forced to limit its sea fishing to the extent necessary to maintain marine fish stocks. 30% of the world's oceans are overfished, and marine fish stocks are in danger. the reasoned measures taken to maintain them have led to a continuous and significant decline in the amount of marine fish caught. the cfp should therefore pay much more attention to sustainable fisheries, i.e. aquaculture, and in particular freshwater fisheries. a significant part of the hungarian wetlands is located in natura 2000 areas. these fish farms do not represent any threat to the natural values of these areas. in fact, in many cases it is our closed systems of wetlands that have created and preserved unique associations of aquatic habitats. therefore, freshwater aquaculture should be given priority and maximum support from the union. furthermore, this area should be freed from unnecessarily stringent and unnecessary sustainability standards that are justified only for marine fisheries.
in writing. ‒ in line with the european people's party's line, i voted in favour of the eu joining the committee for the protection of bluefin tuna as a regional economic integration organisation. the eu has so far fully adopted the recommendations of the committee, which clearly show that the european union is forced to limit its sea fishing to the extent necessary to maintain marine fish stocks. 30% of the world's oceans are overfished, and marine fish stocks are in danger. the reasoned measures taken to maintain them have led to a continuous and significant decline in the amount of marine fish caught. the cfp should therefore pay much more attention to sustainable fisheries, i.e. aquaculture, and in particular freshwater fisheries. a significant part of the hungarian wetlands is located in natura 2000 areas. these fish farms do not represent any threat to the natural values of these areas. in fact, in many cases it is our closed systems of wetlands that have created and preserved unique associations of aquatic habitats. therefore, freshwater aquaculture should be given priority and maximum support from the union. moreover, this area should be freed from unnecessarily stringent and unnecessary sustainability standards that are justified only for marine fisheries.
in writing. ‒ the eu has already fully adopted the recommendations of the southern bluefin tuna commission, which clearly show that the european union is forced to limit its sea fishing to the extent necessary to maintain marine fish stocks. 30% of the world's oceans are overfished, and marine fish stocks are in danger. the reasoned measures taken to maintain them have led to a continuous and significant decline in the amount of marine fish caught. the cfp should therefore pay much more attention to sustainable fisheries, i.e. aquaculture, and in particular freshwater fisheries.
in writing. ‒ in line with the european people's party's line, i voted in favour of the eu joining the commission for the protection of southern bluefin tuna as a regional economic integration organisation. the eu has so far fully adopted the recommendations of the committee, which clearly show that the european union is forced to limit its sea fishing to the extent necessary to maintain marine fish stocks. 30% of the world's oceans are overfished, and marine fish stocks are in danger. the reasoned measures taken to maintain them have led to a continuous and significant decline in the amount of marine fish caught. the cfp should therefore pay much more attention to sustainable fisheries, i.e. aquaculture, and in particular freshwater fisheries. a significant part of the hungarian wetlands is located in natura 2000 areas. these fish farms do not represent any threat to the natural values of these areas. in fact, in many cases it is our closed systems of wetlands that have created and preserved unique associations of aquatic habitats. therefore, freshwater aquaculture should be given priority and maximum support from the union. moreover, this area should be freed from unnecessarily stringent and unnecessary sustainability standards that are justified only for marine fisheries.
in writing. ‒ the purpose of the proposal is to allow an exchange of letters between the eu and the extended committee of the convention for the conservation of southern bluefin tuna (ccsbt). the eu would gain full membership of the enlarged committee of the csce instead of its current non-member cooperating party status by signing this international legal instrument. i supported the motion.
in writing. ‒ the regulation of insurance contracts and insurance intermediaries has been put on the agenda by all governments worldwide, including the hungarian government. the european commission has also recognised the importance of consumer protection, as in the past it has tried to support crossborder intermediation through various internal market measures, but we now know that consumer protection in itself promotes the growth of the internal market. a greater degree of harmonisation is necessary in the interests of all parties concerned, but for some member states the requirements may prove to be so stringent as to constitute a market barrier. as regards information requirements, i believe that there is a real need for transparency in the remuneration system if customers demand it, but top-down regulation can lead to unnecessary bureaucracy. i think we've finally developed a system that works for the benefit of consumers. of course, many times each of the 28 member states believes that its system is the best, but this does not mean a single internal market. if someone has passed a qualification scheme, it must be recognised in other member states. the current proposal will alleviate the often cumbersome operation of the current system, which is why i voted in favour of it.
in writing. ‒ the regulation of insurance contracts and insurance intermediaries has been put on the agenda by all governments worldwide, including the hungarian government. the european commission has also recognised the importance of consumer protection, as in the past it has tried to support crossborder intermediation through various internal market measures, but we now know that consumer protection in itself promotes the growth of the internal market. a greater degree of harmonisation is necessary in the interests of all parties concerned, but for some member states the requirements may prove to be so stringent as to constitute a market barrier. as regards information requirements, i believe that there is a real need for transparency in the remuneration system if customers demand it, but top-down regulation can lead to unnecessary bureaucracy. i believe that mr. langen has succeeded in developing a system that works in the best interests of consumers. of course, many times each of the 28 member states believes that its system is the best, but this does not mean a single internal market. if someone has passed a qualification scheme, it must be recognised in other member states. the current proposal will alleviate the often cumbersome operation of the current system, which is why i voted in favour of it.
in writing. the regulation of insurance contracts and insurance intermediaries has been put on the agenda by all governments worldwide, including the hungarian government. the european commission has also recognised the importance of consumer protection, having in the past tried to support crossborder intermediation through various internal market measures. however, we now know that consumer protection in itself contributes to the growth of the internal market. a greater degree of harmonisation is necessary in the interests of all parties concerned, but for some member states the requirements may prove to be so stringent as to constitute a market barrier. as regards information requirements, i believe that there is a real need for transparency in the remuneration system if customers demand it, but top-down regulation can lead to unnecessary bureaucracy. i believe that it is thanks to the dedicated work of mr langen that we have finally developed a system that works for the benefit of consumers. of course, many times each of the 28 member states believes that its system is the best, but this does not mean a single internal market. if someone has passed a qualification scheme, it must be recognised in other member states. the current proposal will alleviate the often cumbersome operation of the current system, which is why i voted in favour of it.
in writing. ‒ the regulation of insurance contracts and insurance intermediaries has been put on the agenda by all governments worldwide, including the hungarian government. the european commission has also recognised the importance of consumer protection, as in the past it has tried to support crossborder intermediation through various internal market measures, but we now know that consumer protection in itself promotes the growth of the internal market. a greater degree of harmonisation is necessary in the interests of all parties concerned, but for some member states the requirements may prove to be so stringent as to constitute a market barrier. as regards information requirements, i believe that there is a real need for transparency in the remuneration system if customers demand it, but top-down regulation can lead to unnecessary bureaucracy. i believe that through the selfless work of mr. langen, we have finally developed a system that works for the benefit of consumers. of course, many times each of the 28 member states believes that its system is the best, but this does not mean a single internal market. if someone has passed a qualification scheme, it must be recognised in other member states. the current proposal will alleviate the often cumbersome operation of the current system, which is why i voted in favour of it.
in writing. ‒ the regulation of insurance contracts and insurance intermediaries has been put on the agenda by all governments worldwide, including the hungarian government. the european commission has also recognised the importance of consumer protection, as in the past it has tried to support crossborder intermediation through various internal market measures, but we now know that consumer protection in itself promotes the growth of the internal market. a greater degree of harmonisation is necessary in the interests of all parties concerned, but for some member states the requirements may prove to be so stringent as to constitute a market barrier. as regards information requirements, i believe that there is a real need for transparency in the remuneration system if customers demand it, but top-down regulation can lead to unnecessary bureaucracy. i believe that mr. langen's hard work has finally resulted in a system that works for the benefit of consumers. of course, many times each of the 28 member states believes that its system is the best, but this does not mean a single internal market. if someone has passed a qualification scheme, it must be recognised in other member states. the current proposal will alleviate the often cumbersome operation of the current system, which is why i voted in favour of it.
in writing. ‒ i consider the protection of consumers' interests to be a key issue and therefore support a directive which sets minimum harmonisation as its objective and which should not prevent member states from maintaining or introducing more stringent provisions to protect consumers, provided that those provisions are in line with union law, including this directive. i agree that consumers should enjoy the same level of protection despite the differences between sales channels. in order to ensure that the same level of protection applies and that comparable standards are in the interests of consumers, in particular in the area of disclosure, it is essential to ensure a level playing field between sellers. i welcome the fact that general principles such as non-conflict, transparency and customer information are given high priority in the report.
in writing. ‒ the regulation of insurance contracts and insurance intermediaries has been put on the agenda by all governments worldwide, including the hungarian government. the european commission has also recognised the importance of consumer protection, as in the past it has tried to support crossborder intermediation through various internal market measures, but we now know that consumer protection in itself promotes the growth of the internal market. a greater degree of harmonisation is necessary in the interests of all parties concerned, but for some member states the requirements may prove to be so stringent as to constitute a market barrier. as regards information requirements, i believe that there is a real need for transparency in the remuneration system if customers demand it, but top-down regulation can lead to unnecessary bureaucracy. i believe that the rapporteur's dedicated work has finally resulted in a model that works for consumers. the current proposal will alleviate the often cumbersome operation of the current system, which is why i voted in favour of it as a member of the hungarian delegation to the people's party.
in writing. ‒ the regulation of insurance contracts and insurance intermediaries has been put on the agenda by all governments worldwide, including the hungarian government. the european commission has also recognised the importance of consumer protection, having in the past tried to support crossborder intermediation through various internal market measures. however, we now know that consumer protection in itself contributes to the growth of the internal market. a greater degree of harmonisation is needed in the interests of all parties concerned. however, for some member states, the requirements may be so stringent that they constitute a market barrier. as regards information requirements, i believe that there is a real need for transparency in the remuneration system if customers demand it. it is stressed that top-down regulation can lead to unnecessary bureaucracy. i believe that through the selfless work of mr. langen, we have finally developed a system that works for the benefit of consumers. of course, many times each of the 28 member states believes that its system is the best, but this does not mean a single internal market. if someone has passed a qualification scheme, it must be recognised in other member states. the current proposal will alleviate the often cumbersome operation of the current system, which is why i voted in favour of it.
in writing. ‒ the regulation of insurance contracts and insurance intermediaries has been put on the agenda by all governments worldwide, including the hungarian government. the european commission has also recognised the importance of consumer protection, as in the past it has tried to support crossborder intermediation through various internal market measures, but we now know that consumer protection in itself promotes the growth of the internal market. a greater degree of harmonisation is necessary in the interests of all parties concerned, but for some member states the requirements may prove to be so stringent as to constitute a market barrier. as regards information requirements, i believe that there is a real need for transparency in the remuneration system if customers demand it, but top-down regulation can lead to unnecessary bureaucracy. i believe that mr. langen's hard work has finally resulted in a system that works for the benefit of consumers. of course, many times each of the 28 member states believes that its system is the best, but this does not mean a single internal market. if someone has passed a qualification scheme, it must be recognised in other member states. the current proposal will alleviate the often cumbersome operation of the current system, which is why i voted in favour of it.
in writing. ‒ in 2012, the commission proposed the adoption of a directive of the european parliament and of the council on insurance mediation. on the basis of the opinions of the committee on the internal market and consumer protection and the committee on legal affairs, the economic and monetary affairs committee adopted a report on the proposal, which was discussed by the european parliament at its meeting of 26 february 2014, and on the basis of which it made amendments. in its decision of 18 september 2014, the conference of presidents listed the issue as an open issue for the seventh parliamentary term. in order to close the matter, the economic and monetary committee adopted an additional report recommending the commission's proposal to parliament for adoption, with amendments. i supported the bill.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the supplementary report on insurance mediation, which added important safeguards to the original document. i think it is right that the report now includes the addition that member states can maintain even stricter provisions to protect customers, provided they are in line with eu directives. protecting consumers' rights and interests, and improving their quality of life and well-being, are among the fundamental values of the european union. the union should aim to ensure that these values are applied in all areas, including the sale of insurance products. i therefore welcome and support the new guarantees highlighted in the supplementary report which will help to achieve this. such as the requirement for close cooperation between host and home member states or the creation of a central information point to ensure a high level of service and effective consumer protection. i was pleased to see the rapporteur stress that consumers should enjoy the same level of protection despite differences between sales channels. this requires raising the level of consumer protection and ensuring a level playing field across europe.
in writing. ‒ insurance products can be sold by a variety of persons and institutions, such as agents, dealers, bank insurance brokers, insurance companies, travel agents or even car rental companies. the equal treatment of intermediaries and the protection of clients require the application of this directive to all those persons and entities. in order to ensure that the same level of protection applies regardless of the channels through which customers purchase an insurance product, whether directly from the insurer or indirectly from an insurance intermediary, this directive should cover not only insurers or intermediaries but also other market participants who sell insurance products in an ancillary manner, such as travel agents or car rental companies, unless they fulfil the conditions for exemption. i voted yes to the motion.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on reducing inequalities and in particular child poverty adopted today. the key elements of the decision underpinned the measures introduced by the hungarian government in recent years. nevertheless, the report adopted by the leftist majority took into account older statistics and survey figures, which significantly distorted data and trends about the current situation. i voted for the people's party and i agree that creating jobs is a priority, just as reducing high energy prices and cutting government spending is a priority in the fight against poverty. making childcare free and more widely available was one of the first priorities in the report, which i support. i also think it is right to say that household debt relief can and has significantly improved the situation of people.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on reducing inequalities, and in particular child poverty, which was adopted today. i voted in favour of the people's party and agreed with the rapporteur that job creation is a priority, as are high energy prices and reducing taxes on income, which contribute to the fight against poverty. making childcare free and more widely available was one of the first priorities in the report, which confirms the hungarian government's correct approach to date. i also share the view that the reduction of household debt can and has significantly improved the situation of people, which has also been a priority of the hungarian government in recent years.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on reducing inequalities and in particular child poverty adopted today. the main elements of the decision were originally based on the proposals of mep ádám kósa, which underpinned the measures introduced by the hungarian government in recent years. nevertheless, the report adopted by the leftist majority took into account older statistics and survey figures, which significantly distorted data and trends about the current situation. we followed the people's party line in the vote and agreed with the rapporteur that job creation is a priority, as are high energy prices and reducing government spending in the fight against poverty. adam kósa's proposal to make childcare free of charge and more generally accessible was one of the first priorities in the report, which supports the hungarian government's correct approach to date. we also share the view that the alleviation of household debt can and has significantly improved the situation of people, which has also been a priority of the hungarian government in recent years.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on reducing inequalities and in particular child poverty adopted today. the main elements of the decision were originally based on the proposals of mep ádám kósa, which underpinned the measures introduced by the hungarian government in recent years. nevertheless, the report adopted by the leftist majority took into account older statistics and survey figures, which significantly distorted data and trends about the current situation. we followed the people's party line in the vote and agreed with the rapporteur that job creation is a priority, as are high energy prices and reducing levies, which contribute to the fight against poverty. adam kósa's proposal to make childcare free of charge and more generally accessible was one of the first priorities in the report, which supports the hungarian government's correct approach to date. we also share the view that the alleviation of household debt can and has significantly improved the situation of people, which has also been a priority of the hungarian government in recent years.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on reducing inequalities, and in particular child poverty, which was adopted today. the main elements of the decision were originally based on the proposals of mep ádám kósa, which underpinned the measures introduced by the hungarian government in recent years. nevertheless, the report adopted by the leftist majority took into account older statistics and survey figures, which significantly distorted data and trends about the current situation. we followed the people's party line in the vote and agreed with the rapporteur that job creation is a priority, as are high energy prices and reducing government spending in the fight against poverty. adam kósa's proposal to make childcare free of charge and more generally accessible was one of the first priorities in the report, which supports the hungarian government's correct approach to date. we also share the view that the alleviation of household debt can and has significantly improved the situation of people, which has also been a priority of the hungarian government in recent years.
in writing. ‒ given the un convention on the rights of the child, which states that every child should have the right to education, health services, housing, protection, participation in decisions affecting them, leisure and free time, a balanced diet and to be raised in a family, i believe that the eu is unfortunately not doing enough. it is worrying that the proportion of children living in persistent extreme poverty is increasing (over a three-year period). social inequalities re-create disadvantages across generations, and the negative effects of poverty and social exclusion on children can last a lifetime. so i think that the wrong policy measures will have an irreversible negative impact on the lives of these people and on society. i support member states providing the support needed to ensure the right to culture, sport and leisure for all children, with a focus on children living in poverty, in remote areas, with disabilities and migrant children. in order to protect children from abuse, violence and neglect, it is important to strengthen social rights, which should be guaranteed by the state, by increasing the number of employees and professionals providing social services with a view to enhancing medical, psychological and social care for young people.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on reducing inequalities and in particular child poverty adopted today. the main elements of the decision were based on the proposals of mep ádám kósa, which underpinned the measures introduced by the hungarian government in recent years. nevertheless, the report adopted by the leftist majority took into account older statistics and survey figures, which significantly distorted data and trends about the current situation. we followed the people's party line in the vote and agreed with the rapporteur that job creation is a priority and that reducing high energy prices and levies will also help to fight poverty. adam kossa's proposal to make childcare free of charge and more widely available was one of the first priorities in the report. we also share the view that the alleviation of household debt can and has significantly improved the situation of people, which has also been a priority of the hungarian government in recent years.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on reducing inequalities and in particular child poverty adopted today. the main elements of the decision were originally based on the proposals of mep ádám kósa, which underpinned the measures introduced by the hungarian government in recent years. nevertheless, the report adopted by the leftist majority took into account older statistics and survey figures, which significantly distorted data and trends about the current situation. we followed the people's party line in the vote and agreed with the rapporteur that job creation is a priority. in addition, high energy prices and reductions in government spending are contributing to the fight against poverty. adam kósa's proposal to make childcare free of charge and more widely available was one of the first priorities in the report. this confirms the correct approach taken by the hungarian government so far. we also share the view that the alleviation of household debt can and has significantly improved the situation of people, which has also been a priority of the hungarian government in recent years.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on reducing inequalities and in particular child poverty adopted today. the main elements of the decision were originally based on my own proposals, which underpinned the measures introduced by the hungarian government in recent years. nevertheless, the report adopted by the leftist majority took into account older statistics and survey figures, which significantly distorted data and trends about the current situation. i voted in favour of the people's party and agreed with the rapporteur that job creation is a priority, as are high energy prices and reducing taxes on income, which are also part of the fight against poverty. my amendment regarding the free and more general access to childcare was among the first priorities in the report, which supports the correct approach of the hungarian government so far. i also share the view that the reduction of household debt can and has significantly improved the situation of people, which has also been a priority of the hungarian government in recent years.
in writing. the aim of the report is clearly to be supported. his good intentions are beyond question, but his solutions are still improving. it would be fortunate to build and operate a public residential school system considered by the profession to be the best for achieving lasting results, which indeed requires more investment, but which is rewarding in social terms. with a fairer tax system that puts a proportionate burden on multinational companies, the hedge can be easily created.
in writing. ‒ the report of the employment and social affairs committee, based on statistical data and socioeconomic contexts, highlights a fundamental problem: the increase in social inequalities, including its most serious consequence, child poverty. it is undeniable that between 2008 and 2012 the number of children at risk of poverty or social exclusion increased by almost one million in europe, that the number increased by half a million between 2011 and 2012 alone, that the risk of poverty or social exclusion increased from 26,5% to 28% between 2008 and 2012, or that in 2013 26,5 million children in the eu28 were at risk of poverty or social exclusion. the problem raised in the report is very serious and the european union must certainly do something about it, even if not all the specific proposals put forward seem to be feasible, which is why i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution.
in writing. reducing inequalities, especially child poverty stresses that investing in the well-being of children and in lifting them out of poverty is not only a moral obligation but also a social and economic priority. the socialists and democrats group in the european parliament is calling for the introduction of a child guarantee funded from the european budget to end child poverty, which is supported by the dk in the light of the hungarian data. this guarantee would ensure that every child has free access to health care, education, childcare, decent housing and adequate nutrition. we believe that this is the only way to break the vicious circle of poverty, because it has to start at the youngest possible age. the child guarantee is a long-term instrument that provides equal opportunities for an entire generation and supports parents in their social integration and integration into the labour market. that is why i support the adoption of the report.
in writing. ‒ the report stresses that every child should be guaranteed the right to education, health services, housing, protection, participation in decisions affecting them, leisure and free time, a balanced diet and to be raised in a family (un convention on the rights of the child). however, the eu is far from satisfying the requirements of the convention. that is why i supported the report, because child poverty is on the rise in europe. it is regrettable that the hungarian government has abolished the statistics on poverty rather than providing solutions, even though it is known that some 4 million people are already living below the subsistence level and the number of hungry children has increased by more than half a million. unfortunately, the hungarian government fails to take into account that social inequalities re-create disadvantages across generations, and that the negative effects of poverty and social exclusion on children can last a lifetime. the european parliament voted that it is essential that member states increase the volume, amount, scope and effectiveness of benefits specifically for children and parents (such as unemployment benefits or extended parental leave). i believe that creating quality jobs and raising the minimum wage can be a direct and indirect solution to eliminate inequalities.
in writing. ‒ all reports indicate that child poverty is increasing in europe. between 2008 and 2012, the number of children at risk of poverty or social exclusion increased by almost one million in europe; in 2013, 26.5 million children in the eu28 were at risk of poverty or social exclusion, according to eurostat. in hungary, 41.4 percent of children, or nearly one in two, are forced to live in poverty. this also proves that in recent years a tragic social crisis has developed in hungarian society. three hundred thousand children live in extremely poor nutritional conditions, and fifty to sixty thousand children do not get proper nutrition every day. as a european democrat, i can only support any initiative that sets the goal of eradicating child poverty. i voted yes.
in writing. ‒ there is currently no eu-wide definition of marginalised communities, so member states have to decide this using their national indicators. there are indicators that are closely linked to marginalisation, such as high long-term unemployment, low levels of education, extremely poor housing conditions, lack of access to healthcare and/or exposure to excessive health risks. the crisis had a direct negative impact on marginalised communities, further increasing poverty and social exclusion. cohesion policy plays an important role in supporting the economic, social and territorial integration of marginalised communities. the report suggests a number of ideas that are useful for the integration of marginalised groups. it stresses that education and employment are the best antidote to poverty and that projects relating to extra-curricular and lifelong learning should be encouraged. the report also stresses the importance of integrated housing, education and employment interventions, and the need to improve access to public services. i voted in favour of the report in the plenary.
in writing. ‒ there is currently no eu-wide definition of marginalised communities, so member states have to decide this using their national indicators. there are indicators that are closely linked to marginalisation, such as high long-term unemployment, low levels of education, extremely poor housing conditions, lack of access to healthcare and/or exposure to excessive health risks. the crisis had a direct negative impact on marginalised communities, further increasing poverty and social exclusion. cohesion policy plays an important role in supporting the economic, social and territorial integration of marginalised communities. the report suggests a number of ideas that are useful for the integration of marginalised groups. it stresses that education and employment are the best antidote to poverty and that projects relating to extra-curricular and lifelong learning should be encouraged. the report also stresses the importance of integrated housing, education and employment interventions, and the need to improve access to public services. i voted in favour of the report in the plenary.
in writing. there is currently no eu-wide definition of marginalised communities, so this should be decided by member states using their national indicators. there are indicators that are closely linked to marginalisation, such as high long-term unemployment, low levels of education, extremely poor housing conditions, lack of access to healthcare and/or exposure to excessive health risks. the crisis had a direct negative impact on marginalised communities, further increasing poverty and social exclusion. cohesion policy plays an important role in supporting the economic, social and territorial integration of marginalised communities. the report suggests a number of ideas that are useful for the integration of marginalised groups. it stresses that education and employment are the best antidote to poverty and that projects relating to extra-curricular and lifelong learning should be encouraged. the report also stresses the importance of integrated housing, education and employment interventions, and the need to improve access to public services. i voted in favour of the report in the plenary.
in writing. ‒ there is currently no eu-wide definition of marginalised communities, so member states have to decide this using their national indicators. there are indicators that are closely linked to marginalisation, such as high long-term unemployment, low levels of education, extremely poor housing conditions, lack of access to healthcare and/or exposure to excessive health risks. the crisis had a direct negative impact on marginalised communities, further increasing poverty and social exclusion. cohesion policy plays an important role in supporting the economic, social and territorial integration of marginalised communities. the report suggests a number of ideas that are useful for the integration of marginalised groups. it stresses that education and employment are the best antidote to poverty and that projects relating to extra-curricular and lifelong learning should be encouraged. the report also stresses the importance of integrated housing, education and employment interventions, and the need to improve access to public services. i voted in favour of the report in the plenary.
in writing. ‒ there is currently no eu-wide definition of marginalised communities, so member states have to decide this using their national indicators. there are indicators that are closely linked to marginalisation, such as high long-term unemployment, low levels of education, extremely poor housing conditions, lack of access to healthcare and/or exposure to excessive health risks. the crisis had a direct negative impact on marginalised communities, further increasing poverty and social exclusion. cohesion policy plays an important role in supporting the economic, social and territorial integration of marginalised communities. the report suggests a number of ideas that are useful for the integration of marginalised groups. it stresses that education and employment are the best antidote to poverty and that projects relating to extra-curricular and lifelong learning should be encouraged. the report also stresses the importance of integrated housing, education and employment interventions, and the need to improve access to public services. i voted in favour of the report in the plenary.
in writing. ‒ cohesion policy is one of the european union's most effective tools for combating inequalities and promoting territorial and social cohesion in different regions. in all european societies there are groups and communities that live in structural exclusion and segregation from the majority society and lack access to even basic public infrastructures and services. in addition, many are characterized by disproportionate poverty, unemployment, and poor health. cohesion policy can play a very effective role in changing these circumstances. in my view, the need for quality assessment and monitoring mechanisms is clear from the above. a shift towards quality control is needed to ensure that interventions deliver long-term and sustainable results.
in writing. ‒ there is currently no eu-wide definition of marginalised communities, so member states have to decide this using their national indicators. there are indicators that are closely linked to marginalisation, such as high long-term unemployment, low levels of education, extremely poor housing conditions, lack of access to healthcare and/or exposure to excessive health risks. the crisis had a direct negative impact on marginalised communities, further increasing poverty and social exclusion. cohesion policy plays an important role in supporting the economic, social and territorial integration of marginalised communities. the report suggests a number of ideas that are useful for the integration of marginalised groups. it stresses that education and employment are the best antidote to poverty and that projects relating to extra-curricular and lifelong learning should be encouraged. the report also stresses the importance of integrated housing, education and employment interventions, and the need to improve access to public services. i voted in favour of the report in the plenary.
in writing. ‒ there is currently no eu-wide definition of marginalised communities, so this is a matter for member states to decide. there are indicators that are closely linked to marginalisation, such as high long-term unemployment, low levels of education, extremely poor housing conditions, lack of access to healthcare and/or exposure to excessive health risks. the crisis had a direct negative impact on marginalised communities, further increasing poverty and social exclusion. cohesion policy plays an important role in supporting the economic, social and territorial integration of marginalised communities. the report suggests a number of ideas that are useful for the integration of marginalised groups. it stresses that education and employment are the best antidote to poverty and that projects relating to extra-curricular and lifelong learning should be encouraged. the document also stresses the importance of integrated housing, education and employment interventions and the need to improve access to public services. i voted in favour of the report in the plenary.
in writing. ‒ there is currently no eu-wide definition of marginalised communities, so member states have to decide this using their national indicators. there are indicators that are closely linked to marginalisation, such as high long-term unemployment, low levels of education, extremely poor housing conditions, lack of access to healthcare and/or exposure to excessive health risks. the crisis had a direct negative impact on marginalised communities, further increasing poverty and social exclusion. cohesion policy plays an important role in supporting the economic, social and territorial integration of marginalised communities. the report suggests a number of ideas that are useful for the integration of marginalised groups. it stresses that education and employment are the best antidote to poverty and that projects relating to extra-curricular and lifelong learning should be encouraged. the report also stresses the importance of integrated housing, education and employment interventions, and the need to improve access to public services. i voted in favour of the report in the plenary.
in writing. ‒ the report of the committee on regional development is about groups and communities in european societies that are structurally excluded and segregated from the majority society, with no access to even basic public infrastructure and services. these groups are often characterised by disproportionate poverty, unemployment and poor health. the report notes that the large reductions in public spending during the crisis have exacerbated existing problems (such as unemployment, lack of social security, poor housing and lack of public health services) in the member states. as a consequence, the crisis had a direct negative impact on marginalised communities. the report makes recommendations to counter these negative consequences. i supported the adoption of the report.
in writing. ‒ the report on cohesion policy and marginalised communities is most valuable for drawing attention to the inefficiency of eu support in reaching marginalised communities. it emphasises that the roma population is the largest such group in europe, stresses the importance of education in inclusion and that women are even more affected by exclusion than men. the report calls on the commission to define precisely the marginalized groups, to report on the resources allocated to support such groups, to analyse the data and to draw the necessary conclusions. it also calls on the commission to ensure that ngos are regularly involved in the monitoring of resources. overall, the report contributes to making more eu aid available to the most disadvantaged european citizens.
in writing. ‒ there is currently no eu-wide definition of marginalised communities, so member states have to decide this using their national indicators. there are indicators that are closely linked to marginalisation, such as high long-term unemployment, low levels of education, extremely poor housing conditions, lack of access to healthcare and/or exposure to excessive health risks. the crisis had a direct negative impact on marginalised communities, further increasing poverty and social exclusion. cohesion policy plays an important role in supporting the economic, social and territorial integration of marginalised communities. the report suggests a number of ideas that are useful for the integration of marginalised groups. it stresses that education and employment are the best antidote to poverty and that projects relating to extra-curricular and lifelong learning should be encouraged. the report also stresses the importance of integrated housing, education and employment interventions, and the need to improve access to public services.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report because i agree that cohesion policy makes a significant contribution to increasing economic, social and territorial cohesion and reducing social inequalities. however, i believe that the opportunities offered by cohesion policy should be further developed and that further help can be given to member states to alleviate and eradicate poverty and exclusion. i agree that in all european societies there are groups and communities that live in structural exclusion and segregation from the majority society and do not have access even to basic public infrastructures and services. as a result, many of them are plagued by extreme poverty, unemployment, violence, and poor health. the situation of marginalised communities, including roma, can be improved by means of european-level instruments, while the change in the situation of these communities is primarily the responsibility of the member states. this cannot be solved by appearance politics, which is why the european commission's guidelines can help to take concrete steps. the report will provide detailed information on the effective use of funding opportunities for marginalised communities and the effective application of the european code of conduct (e.g. in terms of the partnership principle and the involvement of civil society). i believe that accountable, transparent and democratic structures should be established to ensure the integration of marginalised communities and to fight corruption and misuse of resources.
in writing. ‒ marginalized communities have been put at the centre of cohesion policy measures as concerns about social exclusion and a commitment to combating it have increased. including the situation of the roma and the long-awaited improvement of their living conditions. the proposal calls on the european commission to provide guidance on the definition of marginalised communities, defining the totality of the characteristics and attributes of marginalised groups, taking into account the specific situation, challenges and needs of each potential target group with a view to promoting their socio-economic integration. i voted yes to the motion.
in writing. ‒ the union's action at international level is based on the principles of democracy, the rule of law, equality, solidarity, the universality and indivisibility of human rights and fundamental freedoms and respect for human dignity, as enshrined in article 21 of the treaty on the union. the report adopted today recalls that the principles and objectives of the eu's foreign policy are closely linked to those of the un. it underlines that the challenges facing the eu require global solutions and global problems require union action. it therefore needs global partners to achieve its objectives, namely in the areas of peace and security and the prevention of the spread of terrorism. the union should therefore continue to seek to strengthen global governance within the un. with regard to the migration and refugee crisis affecting europe, i voted in favour of the report, which inter alia calls on the union and the un to work together more closely than ever to deal with the crisis and inter alia to help remedy the economic situation and sustainable development of the countries of origin of migration. in view of the forthcoming un climate change conference in paris, i also voted in favour of the eu and the un stepping up their efforts to reach a legally binding agreement at this summit.
in writing. ‒ the union's action at international level is based on the principles of democracy, the rule of law, equality, solidarity, the universality and indivisibility of human rights and fundamental freedoms and respect for human dignity, as enshrined in article 21 of the treaty on the union. the report adopted today recalls that the principles and objectives of the eu's foreign policy are closely linked to those of the un. it underlines that the challenges facing the eu require global solutions and global problems require union action. it therefore needs global partners to achieve its objectives, namely in the areas of peace and security and the prevention of the spread of terrorism. the union should therefore continue to work towards strengthening global governance within the un and reforming the security council to better reflect the new world situation. with regard to the migration and refugee crisis affecting europe, i voted in favour of the report, which inter alia calls on the union and the un to work together more closely than ever to deal with the crisis and inter alia to help remedy the economic situation and sustainable development of the countries of origin of migration. in view of the forthcoming un climate change conference in paris, i also voted in favour of the eu and the un stepping up their efforts to reach a legally binding agreement at this summit.
in writing. the union's action at international level shall be based on the principles of democracy, the rule of law, equality, solidarity, the universality and indivisibility of human rights and fundamental freedoms and respect for human dignity, as enshrined in article 21 of the treaty on the union. the report adopted today recalls that the principles and objectives of the eu's foreign policy are closely linked to those of the un. it underlines that the challenges facing the eu require global solutions and global problems require union action. it therefore needs global partners to achieve its objectives, namely in the areas of peace and security and the prevention of the spread of terrorism. the union should therefore continue to work towards strengthening global governance within the un and reforming the security council to better reflect the new world situation. with regard to the migration and refugee crisis affecting europe, i voted in favour of the report, which inter alia calls on the union and the un to work together more closely than ever to deal with the crisis and inter alia to help remedy the economic situation and sustainable development of the countries of origin of migration. in view of the forthcoming un climate change conference in paris, i also voted in favour of the eu and the un stepping up their efforts to reach a legally binding agreement at this summit.
in writing. ‒ the union's action at international level is based on the principles of democracy, the rule of law, equality, solidarity, the universality and indivisibility of human rights and fundamental freedoms and respect for human dignity, as enshrined in article 21 of the treaty on the union. the report adopted today recalls that the principles and objectives of the eu's foreign policy are closely linked to those of the un. it underlines that the challenges facing the eu require global solutions and global problems require union action. it therefore needs global partners to achieve its objectives, namely in the areas of peace and security and the prevention of the spread of terrorism. the union should therefore continue to work towards strengthening global governance within the un and reforming the security council to better reflect the new world situation. with regard to the migration and refugee crisis affecting europe, i voted in favour of the report, which inter alia calls on the union and the un to work together more closely than ever to deal with the crisis and inter alia to help remedy the economic situation and sustainable development of the countries of origin of migration. in view of the forthcoming un climate change conference in paris, i also voted in favour of the eu and the un stepping up their efforts to reach a legally binding agreement at this summit.
in writing. ‒ the union's action at international level is based on the principles of democracy, the rule of law, equality, solidarity, the universality and indivisibility of human rights and fundamental freedoms and respect for human dignity, as enshrined in article 21 of the treaty on the union. the report adopted today recalls that the principles and objectives of the eu's foreign policy are closely linked to those of the un. it underlines that the challenges facing the eu require global solutions and global problems require union action. it therefore needs global partners to achieve its objectives, namely in the areas of peace and security and the prevention of the spread of terrorism. the union should therefore continue to work towards strengthening global governance within the un and reforming the security council to better reflect the new world situation. with regard to the migration and refugee crisis affecting europe, i voted in favour of the report, which inter alia calls on the union and the un to work together more closely than ever to deal with the crisis and inter alia to help remedy the economic situation and sustainable development of the countries of origin of migration. in view of the forthcoming un climate change conference in paris, i also voted in favour of the eu and the un stepping up their efforts to reach a legally binding agreement at this summit.
in writing. ‒ i welcome the fact that the union and its member states are actively involved in and contribute to the work of the un system in various ways and forms, which should be made more visible. notes that the court of auditors' audit findings on the implementation of the budget and the financial management of the union's budget are based on the court's own findings; i consider it important to underline that the union has become a genuine international actor and that it has a corresponding priority observer status at the un. in order to better achieve the union's foreign policy objectives within the un, the union should play a strengthened role, with increased visibility and political influence, enabling it to better implement its international obligations in accordance with the general assembly resolution of 3 may 2011. i believe that the role of parliaments and regional assemblies within the un system should also be supported.
in writing. ‒ the union's action at international level is based on the principles of democracy, the rule of law, equality, solidarity, the universality and indivisibility of human rights and fundamental freedoms and respect for human dignity, as enshrined in article 21 of the treaty on the union. the report adopted today recalls that the principles and objectives of the eu's foreign policy are closely linked to those of the un. it underlines that the challenges facing the eu require global solutions and global problems require union action. it therefore needs global partners to achieve its objectives, namely in the areas of peace and security and the prevention of the spread of terrorism. the union should therefore continue to work towards strengthening global governance within the un and reforming the security council to better reflect the new world situation. with regard to the migration and refugee crisis affecting europe, i voted in favour of the report, which inter alia calls on the union and the un to work together more closely than ever to deal with the crisis and inter alia to help remedy the economic situation and sustainable development of the countries of origin of migration. in view of the forthcoming un climate change conference in paris, i also voted in favour of the eu and the un stepping up their efforts to reach a legally binding agreement at this summit.
in writing. ‒ the union's action at international level is based on the principles of democracy, the rule of law, equality, solidarity, the universality and indivisibility of human rights and fundamental freedoms and respect for human dignity. this is also laid down in article 21 of the treaty on european union. the report adopted today recalls that the principles and objectives of the eu's foreign policy are closely linked to those of the un. it underlines that the challenges facing the eu require global solutions and global problems require union action. to achieve its goals, it therefore needs global partners in peace and security and in the prevention of the spread of terrorism. the union should continue to work towards strengthening global governance within the un and reforming the security council to better reflect the new world situation. with regard to the migration and refugee crisis affecting europe, i voted in favour of the report, which inter alia calls on the union and the un to work together more closely than ever to deal with the crisis and inter alia to help remedy the economic situation and sustainable development of the countries of origin of migration.
in writing. ‒ the union's action at international level is based on the principles of democracy, the rule of law, equality, solidarity, the universality and indivisibility of human rights and fundamental freedoms and respect for human dignity, as enshrined in article 21 of the treaty on the union. the report adopted today recalls that the principles and objectives of the eu's foreign policy are closely linked to those of the un. it underlines that the challenges facing the eu require global solutions and global problems require union action. it therefore needs global partners to achieve its objectives, namely in the areas of peace and security and the prevention of the spread of terrorism. the union should therefore continue to work towards strengthening global governance within the un and reforming the security council to better reflect the new world situation. with regard to the migration and refugee crisis affecting europe, i voted in favour of the report, which inter alia calls on the union and the un to work together more closely than ever to deal with the crisis and inter alia to help remedy the economic situation and sustainable development of the countries of origin of migration. in view of the forthcoming un climate change conference in paris, i also voted in favour of the eu and the un stepping up their efforts to reach a legally binding agreement at this summit.
in writing. ‒ the report of the foreign affairs committee makes suggestions for promoting the eu's foreign policy objectives within the un. i supported the adoption of the report, as i support the eu's foreign policy objectives and consider the report's proposals for their implementation to be reasonable.
in writing. ‒ the european union's action at international level is based on the principles of democracy, the rule of law, equality, solidarity, the universality and indivisibility of human rights and fundamental freedoms and respect for human dignity, as enshrined in article 21 of the treaty on european union. the report adopted today recalls that the principles and objectives of the eu's foreign policy are closely linked to those of the un. it underlines that the challenges facing the eu require global solutions and global problems require union action. it therefore needs global partners to achieve its objectives, namely in the areas of peace and security and the prevention of the spread of terrorism.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report because it provides a compelling argument for the need for the european union to finally take its place in the un in accordance with its actual international weight and importance, both in terms of its organisational structure and its global activities. i believe that the time has come - as the report suggests - for the eu member states, with the help of the european external action service, to make their positions and the interests of the union more coherent and stronger on the most important issues of international life. i agree that this requires accelerating the operational and organisational reform of the un, which is still reminiscent of the cold war, in particular the reform of the security council, including the elimination of the possibility of abusing the right of veto, in particular in cases involving violations of universal human rights. i hope that the ep's resolution will also contribute to the eu's long-term place in an enlarged eu. in formulating my opinion, i also took into account as an important virtue of the report that it urges greater emphasis on women's equality in the functioning and organisation of the world body, including the principles and practice of the election of the secretary-general. i also thought it important that the ep should also urge in this document that parliament should be given equal weight with the commission in shaping the eu's global role.
in writing. ‒ the union's action at international level is based on the principles of democracy, the rule of law, equality, solidarity, the universality and indivisibility of human rights and fundamental freedoms and respect for human dignity, as enshrined in article 21 of the treaty on the union. the report adopted today recalls that the principles and objectives of the eu's foreign policy are closely linked to those of the un. it underlines that the challenges facing the eu require global solutions and global problems require union action. it therefore needs global partners to achieve its objectives, namely in the areas of peace and security and the prevention of the spread of terrorism. the union should therefore continue to work towards strengthening global governance within the un and reforming the security council to better reflect the new world situation. with regard to the migration and refugee crisis affecting europe, i voted in favour of the report, which inter alia calls on the union and the un to work together more closely than ever to deal with the crisis and inter alia to help remedy the economic situation and sustainable development of the countries of origin of migration. in view of the forthcoming un climate change conference in paris, i also voted in favour of the eu and the un stepping up their efforts to reach a legally binding agreement at this summit.
in writing. ‒ the future of the european union is linked to global peace, security, development and human rights. the challenges facing the union require global solutions, and global problems require union action. that's why i supported the motion.
it's a two-card draw. madam president, you mentioned the responsibility of companies, but i think there are two sides to the story. tango takes two. here are the member countries, the member governments. do you see any way of getting the member states to be constructive here, in this parliament or by any other means?
mr president, on the one hand, the disclosure of tax evasion and tax avoidance practices, and on the other hand, the need for fair taxation and burden-sharing, has led us to work more closely together. and that's all right. i would like to join those who have thanked the rapporteurs for their work and i would also like to thank the president for his work. this report has made a very important discovery. i can also tell you that what's in the report is as good as it gets. but what's not there, we can still put in there if we dig deeper into this topic. i am glad that we have been able to make it clear that the tax burden of multinational companies cannot be lower than that of smes. i'm also glad that we made it clear that you have to pay taxes where your income is generated. if i'm thinking of the hundreds of billions of dollars of hidden income, i have to say that there's a legitimate demand to uncover this income. but most companies are fair taxpayers. now we've taken a step to make them even more honest and to have even more honest taxpayers. it is very important that towards the end of the work both multinational companies and member states showed a much greater willingness to cooperate with these companies. it would be good news if we could extend this circle of cooperation to a global level.
madam president, we speak of the adoption of the budget as a serious instrument of the european parliament, with which it can assert its will in the debate between the institutions. well, this annual budget is not right. the seven-year framework is a minimal playing field. let me give you an example. the amount of payments next year in relation to the eu's total national income: the commission proposes 0.98%, the council goes a little lower to 0.97, the parliament wants more 1%, the agreement is 0.98, which the commission has presented, and this is the case for each of the main lines, except for the question of security and citizenship. so let's take a step back and look at what is the multiannual framework that we're implementing now? two figures: the seven-year framework will fall by 4.5% in real terms, the first time this has happened, the cohesion fund will fall by 8.4% and the gap between the centre and the periphery will continue to widen.
i thank the minister for his answer and for referring me back to a previous report, where the minister was indeed absent, and i was reassured by his answer on this subject. and now, our final speaker, the chairman of the committee on budgets. i'll give the floor to mr. arthuis.
i'll close this discussion. the vote will take place on wednesday 25 november 2015. the commission shall be assisted by the committee established by article 15 of regulation (eu) no 182/2011.
in writing. the eu funds due to hungary were also secured in 2016. attempts to link the payment of cohesion funds to the implementation of the rules on quotas for the relocation of migrants were thwarted. the commission has also been able to provide a number of additional information to the european parliament and the council on the implementation of the eu's migration strategy. the bulk of the surplus funds, in line with the hungarian government's position, will be spent in countries struggling on the front line of the migration crisis and will contribute to the management of conflicts that amplify the wave of immigration on the ground, in the areas outside the union where they originate. the hungarian people's party mps are succeeding in reversing the reduction of the pre-accession fund previously proposed by the council, as these funds are decisive for the accession aspirations of the candidate countries, such as serbia and the hungarians in the former yugoslavia. in addition to the actual financial support, we believe that maintaining the level of the pre-accession fund also conveys an important political message and encouragement for the candidate countries. the final vote will allow the eu budget for 2016 to provide the funds for the 500 million euro dairy rescue package, removing any obstacles to the timely delivery of the huf 2.9 billion eu aid to hungarian dairy farmers. we also support the csáky pál and gál kinga joint project 'europe of colours'. under this, €1 million will be available to applicants to finance minority programmes supporting the elimination of discrimination.
the next item is the debate on the report by rachida dati, drawn up on behalf of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs, on the prevention of radicalisation of european citizens and recruitment by terrorist organisations (2015/2063 ((ini)) (a8-0316/2015).
i would ask my colleagues to respect the time-frame and to speak a little slower because of the difficulties in translation.
it's a two-card draw. you have given a very impressive list of things that need to be done, but do you agree with me that the first thing to do is to cut off the financial channels? because european companies, european people buy the stolen oil, the stolen art, and the europeans pay, often, very large ransoms. would you agree that the solution is to contain them?
madam president, this report is outdated. today, the eu is not just facing a significant terrorist threat, it is actually at war with europe. and who becomes a terrorist in europe? people who don't feel like they belong in society, the report says. what about the hundreds of thousands of people who are now arriving, without any training, without any language, from other cultures? it is naive to expect religious leaders to embrace european values. the report says that 'the fight against terrorist radicalisation must be based on a common value, the aim of which is to ensure an open europe'. i repeat: an open europe by securing against terrorism. i have no comment.
madam president, we are still far from overcoming the horrors of paris, and we are already faced with politicians who are trying to take advantage of this situation. the hungarian prime minister, for example, found it necessary to say that all immigrants, all terrorists are immigrants. and he knows, and we all know, that there is no direct link between immigration and terrorism. we know for a fact that the perpetrators of the terrible attacks in paris were french and belgian citizens. people who were born in these countries, grew up here, socialized here. we cannot consider these people immigrants, because if we consider them immigrants, it only proves that we still consider them as foreigners. not people who belong to this society, but to european societies. i find it extremely sad and disappointing that the policy of exclusion, exclusion, stigmatisation, fear and hatred is still being pursued by many in europe. we know very well that this policy will lead to nothing but further radicalization. instead, we should be working to understand and manage the political and cultural logic of radicalization. we need to make it clear that social integration does not mean giving up cultural identity, does not mean forcible cultural assimilation. we must also welcome these young people so that they can find a future, a home and security in europe.
in writing. the paris terrorist attacks have made it clear that the european union must act to combat terrorism and prevent the radicalisation of eu citizens. while combating radicalisation remains a primary responsibility of the member states, a coordinated european approach is needed. it is estimated that more than five thousand european citizens have travelled to iraq and syria to receive training from terrorist organisations. this is a real security threat to the whole of europe. the paris attacks have shown that the current immigration and integration policy is bleeding from several wounds, as second and third generation immigrants leave for syria and become radicalized. these young people have grown up and are growing up in the heart of europe's great cities, in paris and brussels. all of this calls into question the western european model of education and integration, and it shows that it has failed. criminal justice alone is not enough. the union needs a new strategy based on prevention. according to information from european law enforcement and intelligence agencies, effective prevention of radicalisation should start where recruitment occurs.
mr president the terrible massacre in paris was more than a terrorist attack. the beginning of open war, not only against france, but against europe. this war has multiple fronts. one is an act of terror, the threat of it, the incitement of anarchy. the other is flooding europe with immigrants, including terrorists. if we don't stop them, millions more will come next year. their chances of integration are minimal, they are building their own parallel societies, threatening europe's identity. i quote angela merkel from 2010: "the multicultural society has failed". we are at war. the eu decision-makers who do not act accordingly but stick their heads in the sand, in the sand of the false tolerance bill, their failure to act is tantamount to a war crime.
mr president we're all in mourning today. we mourn those who lost their lives in paris on november 13th, and those who were killed by terrorists in beirut, bamako, or tunisia. we share the pain of all those who have lost their family, their loved ones, their children. we share the helpless anger, fear and uncertainty of not knowing where a similar tragedy could occur tomorrow or the day after. this fear and anger motivates us to look for someone or something to blame for the unexplained. and we're going to show immigrants, refugees, islam, schengen, the whole of the eu. but they're not real answers. they're just tools of the far right, tools of fear and hate. it's a false and dangerous game, because the real answers are not that simple. we have two paths to choose from today. one is the path of national egoism, of closure, of exclusion, of lack of mutual trust and solidarity, where barriers and fear of otherness separate nations and people from one another. the other path is the path of mutual respect, acceptance, inclusion, trust and cooperation that the european union, the multicultural europe, has been on. we can only overcome the crisis of today if we continue to have the courage to believe and trust in our values, in the strength of our community, if we stand firm for all that europe stands for today.
mr president my deepest sympathies go out to the families of the victims in france and elsewhere in the world. after paris, it was clear throughout the weekend in brussels that the first and foremost task of the european union, of the member states, was to protect its citizens, its institutions and its values. the preservation of freedom is the guarantee of europe's security. the citizens of europe expect us to be honest. to protect our borders for their safety, to prevent the masses from being exploited by terrorists. because if we do not, it undermines the schengen system, and if we destroy the schengen acquis, we destroy european integration as a whole. because without security, europe is faced with fear, with closure, with mistrust and with the rise of extremism. and that is not the europe we want.
in writing. brussels is on high alert for the fifth day, with the threat of terrorism looming. will the deaf also learn that the football game has been canceled, the malls have been closed, the subway is out of service, the kindergartens are closed? will they know in time when the danger is over? on monday night, all of belgium was watching tv with great anticipation as the belgian prime minister announced whether the level 4 terror alert would remain in place on tuesday, whether the subway would be restarted the next day, and whether children would be allowed to go to school. however, prime minister charles michel's words were not understood by the deaf because no sign-language interpreter was present at the press conference. it is unfortunate that neither after the paris attacks nor during the emergency in brussels was there any information available to the deaf and hard of hearing. there is no adequate solution in the european union, either at european or national level, and deaf people are therefore a particularly vulnerable group. hungary is a good example: during the recent floods in the danube, viktor orbán's press briefing was interpreted in sign language so that our deaf fellow citizens could receive accurate information in their mother tongue about what to do, the danger or its passing. in addition, the national disaster management service in our country operates an application called vész, which can be downloaded free of charge on smartphones and tablets, allowing anyone to receive instant written information on their smartphone about the dangers in their immediate vicinity, or even about the warnings and alarms issued nationally.
in writing. the terrorist attacks in paris on 13 november 2015 have dramatically awakened us all and, fortunately, most responsible european governments and leaders to the fact that the eu can only face this threat in full unity, both in europe and in the middle east. i believe it is time that the solidarity which is the foundation of the union should be extended to police, intelligence and military cooperation. in line with the member states' and joint initiatives to date, such as measures to restrict arms trafficking, control passenger traffic and eliminate the iad base, i stress that the end result cannot be the permanent closure of european borders or the abandonment of our european principles on civil liberties. faced with such a serious common challenge, it is particularly shocking that there are politicians in europe (especially hungarian prime minister viktor orbán) who use the current dramatic situation to spread populist demagogy and, even after paris, have allowed themselves to make public statements that 'every terrorist is an immigrant' or that the commission's proposal on the allocation of quotas for migrants 'aims to spread terrorism on our continent'. i am convinced that with joint international and european efforts we will one day finally defeat the horror of terrorism; however, the political poison that reinforces in our citizens the attitudes reflected in such statements will have a much longer effect. i therefore urge a firm and consistent common european rejection of such dangerous policies and rhetoric.
in writing. ‒ draft amending budget no 8/2015 concerns the revision of the forecast for traditional own resources (customs duties): it provides for the budgetary entry of the remaining amounts of vat and gni balances for 2014 and the balances of vat and gni for 2015. the draft amending budget no 8/2015 also updates the forecast for other revenue and provides for a reduction of eur 123 474 in the budget of the european data protection supervisor in terms of both commitments and payments. the draft amendment will reduce the gni-based contributions of the member states by eur 9,4 billion. the adoption of draft amending budget no 8/2015 forms part of the package of agreements developed by the negotiating delegations of the european parliament and the council for the adoption of the union budget for 2016. this was accepted by the hungarian people's party delegation to the european parliament, and i therefore supported the report in line with hungarian interests and the position of the people's party group.
in writing. draft amending budget no 8/2015 concerns the revision of the forecast for traditional own resources (customs duties): it provides for the budgetary entry of the remaining amounts of vat and gni balances for 2014 and the balances of vat and gni for 2015. the draft amending budget no 8/2015 also updates the forecast for other revenue and provides for a reduction of eur 123 474 in the budget of the european data protection supervisor in terms of both commitments and payments. the draft amendment will reduce the gni-based contributions of the member states by eur 9,4 billion. the adoption of draft amending budget no 8/2015 forms part of the package of agreements developed by the negotiating delegations of the european parliament and the council for the adoption of the union budget for 2016. this was accepted by the hungarian people's party delegation to the european parliament, and we therefore supported the report in line with hungarian interests and the position of the people's party group.
in writing. ‒ draft amending budget no 8/2015 concerns the revision of the forecast for traditional own resources (customs duties): it provides for the budgetary entry of the remaining amounts of value added tax (vat) and gni balances for 2014 and the balances of value added tax and gross national income (gni) for 2015. the draft amending budget no 8/2015 also updates the forecast for other revenue and provides for a reduction of eur 123 474 in the budget of the european data protection supervisor in terms of both commitments and payments. the draft amendment will reduce the gni-based contributions of the member states by eur 9,4 billion. the adoption of draft amending budget no 8/2015 forms part of the package of agreements developed by the negotiating delegations of the european parliament and the council for the adoption of the union budget for 2016. this was accepted by the hungarian people's party delegation to the european parliament, and we therefore supported the report in line with hungarian interests and the position of the people's party group.
in writing. ‒ draft amending budget no 8/2015 concerns the revision of the forecast for traditional own resources (customs duties): it provides for the budgetary entry of the remaining amounts of vat and gni balances for 2014 and the balances of vat and gni for 2015. the draft amending budget no 8/2015 also updates the forecast for other revenue and provides for a reduction of eur 123 474 in the budget of the european data protection supervisor in terms of both commitments and payments. the draft amendment will reduce the gni-based contributions of the member states by eur 9,4 billion. the adoption of draft amending budget no 8/2015 forms part of the package of agreements developed by the negotiating delegations of the european parliament and the council for the adoption of the union budget for 2016. this was accepted by the hungarian people's party delegation to the european parliament, and we therefore supported the report in line with hungarian interests and the position of the people's party group.
in writing. ‒ draft amending budget no 8/2015 concerns the revision of the forecast for traditional own resources (customs duties): it provides for the budgetary entry of the remaining amounts of vat and gni balances for 2014 and the balances of vat and gni for 2015. the draft amending budget no 8/2015 also updates the forecast for other revenue and provides for a reduction of eur 123 474 in the budget of the european data protection supervisor in terms of both commitments and payments. the draft amendment will reduce the gni-based contributions of the member states by eur 9,4 billion. the adoption of draft amending budget no 8/2015 forms part of the package of agreements developed by the negotiating delegations of the european parliament and the council for the adoption of the union budget for 2016. this was accepted by the hungarian people's party delegation to the european parliament, and we therefore supported the report in line with hungarian interests and the position of the people's party group.
in writing. ‒ draft amending budget no 8/2015 concerns the revision of the forecast for traditional own resources (customs duties): it provides for the budgetary entry of the remaining amounts of vat and gni balances for 2014 and the balances of vat and gni for 2015. the draft amending budget no 8/2015 also updates the forecast for other revenue and provides for a reduction of eur 123 474 in the budget of the european data protection supervisor in terms of both commitments and payments. the draft amendment will reduce the gni-based contributions of the member states by eur 9,4 billion. the adoption of draft amending budget no 8/2015 forms part of the package of agreements developed by the negotiating delegations of the european parliament and the council for the adoption of the union budget for 2016. this was accepted by the hungarian people's party delegation to the european parliament, and we therefore supported the report in line with hungarian interests and the position of the people's party group.
in writing. ‒ draft amending budget no 8/2015 concerns the revision of the forecast for traditional own resources (customs duties). it provides for the budgetary entry of the balance of vat and gni for 2014 and the balance of vat and gni for 2015. the draft amending budget no 8/2015 also updates the forecast for other revenue and provides for a reduction of eur 123 474 in the budget of the european data protection supervisor, both in commitments and payments. the draft amendment will reduce the gni-based contributions of the member states by eur 9,4 billion. the adoption of draft amending budget no 8/2015 forms part of the package of agreements developed by the negotiating delegations of the european parliament and the council for the adoption of the union budget for 2016. this was accepted by the hungarian people's party delegation to the european parliament. therefore, in line with hungarian interests and the position of the people's party, i supported the report.
in writing. ‒ draft amending budget no 8/2015 concerns the revision of the forecast for traditional own resources (customs duties): it provides for the budgetary entry of the remaining amounts of vat and gni balances for 2014 and the balances of vat and gni for 2015. the draft amending budget no 8/2015 also updates the forecast for other revenue and provides for a reduction of eur 123 474 in the budget of the european data protection supervisor in terms of both commitments and payments. the draft amendment will reduce the gni-based contributions of the member states by eur 9,4 billion. the adoption of draft amending budget no 8/2015 forms part of the package of agreements developed by the negotiating delegations of the european parliament and the council for the adoption of the union budget for 2016. this was accepted by the hungarian people's party delegation to the european parliament, and i therefore supported the report in line with hungarian interests and the position of the people's party group.
in writing. the report is unacceptable because it seeks to reduce the contributions of the rich central countries at the expense of the periphery countries. it is unacceptable that member states should receive new concessions from multinational companies which take over the markets of others, cripple their economies and create a quasi-colonial situation, representing the interests of their member states to the last. this is especially true in the current uncertain situation, where the word 'migrant' threatens to have unpredictable consequences.
in writing. ‒ draft amending budget no 8/2015, submitted by the commission on 19 october 2015, revises the forecast for traditional own resources and updates the forecast for other revenue. the review finds that member states' contributions to the union budget are projected to decrease by eur 9,4034 billion in 2015. on 10 november 2015, the council adopted its position on the draft. in its report, the committee on budgets recommends that parliament take note of the commission's draft and the council's position on it. i voted for the motion.
in writing. ‒ draft amending budget no 8/2015 concerns the revision of the forecast for traditional own resources (customs duties): it provides for the budgetary entry of the remaining amounts of vat and gni balances for 2014 and the balances of vat and gni for 2015. the draft amending budget no 8/2015 also updates the forecast for other revenue and provides for a reduction of eur 123 474 in the budget of the european data protection supervisor in terms of both commitments and payments. the draft amendment will reduce the gni-based contributions of the member states by eur 9,4 billion. the adoption of draft amending budget no 8/2015 forms part of the package of agreements developed by the negotiating delegations of the european parliament and the council for the adoption of the union budget for 2016.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution on the report, whereby the ep approved the use of the surplus generated by the commission's own revenue clearance (basically vat), which reduces the gni contribution of the member states by some eur 9.4 billion this year. i would stress, however, that my vote does not constitute an endorsement of the block-redistribution method in general, nor of this particular solution. the concerns raised in this context, and highlighted in the report, reiterate the need for greater flexibility and for faster adaptation to practical challenges in the design and use of the union's budgetary appropriations. i agree with the report and regret that, due to budgetary limits and resistance from member states, it has not been possible to reallocate the resources indicated in the security and external relations (chapters 3 and 4) budget to support the most urgent challenge facing the union today, namely the refugee crisis. i find this particularly regrettable in the light of the fact that the majority of member states still do not contribute, or do not contribute sufficiently, to the new extra-budgetary instruments relating to the refugee crisis, such as the funds established to alleviate the migratory pressure from syria and africa.
in writing. ‒ further financial efforts will be needed to provide humanitarian aid along transit routes and to address the challenges of hosting ever-greater numbers of refugees in european cities and regions. i voted in favor of the motion.
in writing. ‒ after considering all the possibilities for the transfer of commitment appropriations within chapters 3 and 4 of the 2016 eu budget, it has become necessary to mobilise the flexibility instrument in favour of commitment appropriations. the european commission has therefore proposed to mobilise the flexibility instrument in order to supplement the resources of the general budget of the european union for 2016 with a commitment appropriation of eur 1 506 million in addition to the ceiling of chapter 3 to finance the actions under the european migration strategy. on the basis of the above, the european parliament has approved the mobilisation of the flexibility instrument in the form of commitment appropriations amounting to eur 1 530 million. as the mobilisation of the flexibility instrument is part of the package of agreements developed by the negotiating delegations of the european parliament and the council for the adoption of the 2016 eu budget, i supported the report in line with hungarian interests and the position of the ppe group.
in writing. after considering all the possibilities for the transfer of commitment appropriations within chapters 3 and 4 of the 2016 union budget, it has become necessary to mobilise the flexibility instrument in favour of commitment appropriations. the european commission has therefore proposed to mobilise the flexibility instrument in order to supplement the resources of the general budget of the european union for 2016 with a commitment appropriation of eur 1 506 million in addition to the ceiling of chapter 3 to finance the actions under the european migration strategy. in addition to the eur 1 506 million over the ceiling of chapter 3, the conciliation committee convened for the 2016 budget also accepted the proposal of the parliament's delegation to mobilise an additional eur 24 million under the flexibility instrument over and above the ceiling of chapter 4 to address the external dimensions of the challenges posed by the refugee crisis. on the basis of the above, the european parliament has approved the mobilisation of the flexibility instrument in the form of commitment appropriations amounting to eur 1 530 million. as the mobilisation of the flexibility instrument is part of the package of agreements developed by the negotiating delegations of the european parliament and the council for the adoption of the 2016 eu budget, we supported the report in line with hungarian interests and the position of the ppe group.
in writing. ‒ after considering all the possibilities for the transfer of commitment appropriations within chapters 3 and 4 of the 2016 eu budget, it has become necessary to mobilise the flexibility instrument in favour of commitment appropriations. the european commission has therefore proposed to mobilise the flexibility instrument in order to supplement the resources of the general budget of the european union for 2016 with a commitment appropriation of eur 1 506 million in addition to the ceiling of chapter 3 to finance the actions under the european migration strategy. in addition to the eur 1 506 million over the ceiling of chapter 3, the conciliation committee convened for the 2016 budget also accepted the proposal of the parliament's delegation to mobilise an additional eur 24 million under the flexibility instrument over and above the ceiling of chapter 4 to address the external dimensions of the challenges posed by the refugee crisis. on the basis of the above, the european parliament has approved the mobilisation of the flexibility instrument in the form of commitment appropriations amounting to eur 1 530 million. as the mobilisation of the flexibility instrument is part of the package of agreements developed by the negotiating delegations of the european parliament and the council for the adoption of the 2016 eu budget, we supported the report in line with hungarian interests and the position of the ppe group.
in writing. ‒ after considering all the possibilities for the transfer of commitment appropriations within chapters 3 and 4 of the 2016 eu budget, it has become necessary to mobilise the flexibility instrument in favour of commitment appropriations. the european commission has therefore proposed to mobilise the flexibility instrument in order to supplement the resources of the general budget of the european union for 2016 with a commitment appropriation of eur 1 506 million in addition to the ceiling of chapter 3 to finance the actions under the european migration strategy. in addition to the eur 1 506 million over the ceiling of chapter 3, the conciliation committee convened for the 2016 budget also accepted the proposal of the parliament's delegation to mobilise an additional eur 24 million under the flexibility instrument over and above the ceiling of chapter 4 to address the external dimensions of the challenges posed by the refugee crisis. on the basis of the above, the european parliament has approved the mobilisation of the flexibility instrument in the form of commitment appropriations amounting to eur 1 530 million. as the mobilisation of the flexibility instrument is part of the package of agreements developed by the negotiating delegations of the european parliament and the council for the adoption of the 2016 eu budget, we supported the report in line with hungarian interests and the position of the ppe group.
in writing. ‒ after considering all the possibilities for the transfer of commitment appropriations within chapters 3 and 4 of the 2016 eu budget, it has become necessary to mobilise the flexibility instrument in favour of commitment appropriations. the european commission has therefore proposed to mobilise the flexibility instrument in order to supplement the resources of the general budget of the european union for 2016 with a commitment appropriation of eur 1 506 million in addition to the ceiling of chapter 3 to finance the actions under the european migration strategy. in addition to the eur 1 506 million over the ceiling of chapter 3, the conciliation committee convened for the 2016 budget also accepted the proposal of the parliament's delegation to mobilise an additional eur 24 million under the flexibility instrument over and above the ceiling of chapter 4 to address the external dimensions of the challenges posed by the refugee crisis. on the basis of the above, the european parliament has approved the mobilisation of the flexibility instrument in the form of commitment appropriations amounting to eur 1 530 million. as the mobilisation of the flexibility instrument is part of the package of agreements developed by the negotiating delegations of the european parliament and the council for the adoption of the 2016 eu budget, we supported the report in line with hungarian interests and the position of the ppe group.
in writing. ‒ after considering all the possibilities for the transfer of commitment appropriations within chapters 3 and 4 of the 2016 eu budget, it has become necessary to mobilise the flexibility instrument in favour of commitment appropriations. the european commission has therefore proposed to mobilise the flexibility instrument in order to supplement the resources of the general budget of the european union for 2016 with a commitment appropriation of eur 1 506 million in addition to the ceiling of chapter 3 to finance the actions under the european migration strategy. in addition to the eur 1 506 million over the ceiling of chapter 3, the conciliation committee convened for the 2016 budget also accepted the proposal of the parliament's delegation to mobilise an additional eur 24 million under the flexibility instrument over and above the ceiling of chapter 4 to address the external dimensions of the challenges posed by the refugee crisis. on the basis of the above, the european parliament has approved the mobilisation of the flexibility instrument in the form of commitment appropriations amounting to eur 1 530 million. as the mobilisation of the flexibility instrument is part of the package of agreements developed by the negotiating delegations of the european parliament and the council for the adoption of the 2016 eu budget, we supported the report in line with hungarian interests and the position of the ppe group.
in writing. ‒ after considering all the possibilities for the transfer of commitment appropriations within chapters 3 and 4 of the 2016 eu budget, it has become necessary to mobilise the flexibility instrument in favour of commitment appropriations. the european commission has therefore proposed to mobilise the flexibility instrument to supplement the resources of the general budget of the european union for 2016 with a commitment appropriation of eur 1 506 million in addition to the ceiling of chapter 3 to finance measures under the european migration strategy. in addition to the eur 1 506 million over the ceiling of chapter 3, the conciliation committee convened for the 2016 budget also accepted the proposal of the parliament's delegation to mobilise an additional eur 24 million under the flexibility instrument over and above the ceiling of chapter 4 to address the external dimensions of the challenges posed by the refugee crisis. on the basis of the above, the european parliament has approved the mobilisation of the flexibility instrument in the form of commitment appropriations amounting to eur 1 530 million. as the mobilisation of the flexibility instrument is part of the package of agreements developed by the negotiating delegations of the european parliament and the council for the adoption of the 2016 eu budget, i supported the report in line with hungarian interests and the position of the people's party.
in writing. ‒ after considering all the possibilities for the transfer of commitment appropriations within chapters 3 and 4 of the 2016 eu budget, it has become necessary to mobilise the flexibility instrument in favour of commitment appropriations. the european commission has therefore proposed to mobilise the flexibility instrument in order to supplement the resources of the general budget of the european union for 2016 with a commitment appropriation of eur 1 506 million in addition to the ceiling of chapter 3 to finance the actions under the european migration strategy. in addition to the eur 1 506 million over the ceiling of chapter 3, the conciliation committee convened for the 2016 budget also accepted the proposal of the parliament's delegation to mobilise an additional eur 24 million under the flexibility instrument over and above the ceiling of chapter 4 to address the external dimensions of the challenges posed by the refugee crisis. on the basis of the above, the european parliament has approved the mobilisation of the flexibility instrument in the form of commitment appropriations amounting to eur 1 530 million. as the mobilisation of the flexibility instrument is part of the package of agreements developed by the negotiating delegations of the european parliament and the council for the adoption of the 2016 eu budget, i supported the report in line with hungarian interests and the position of the ppe group.
in writing. i cannot say that the eu is handling the so-called refugee crisis badly, because it is not handling it at all. there is superficial ideation and contradictory statements from prominent leaders of member countries. while internationally recognized security experts talk of a quasi-war situation. and i warned you of the dangers years ago. this report is at least a step forward in providing some financial means to deal with the crisis and thus to be supported.
in writing. ‒ the so-called flexibility instrument can be used to finance clearly defined expenditure which would not be financed under the ceilings for other chapters. the commission has identified the need for significant additional appropriations to finance measures to alleviate the migration and asylum crisis due to urgent needs and has therefore proposed the adoption of a decision of the parliament and of the council to supplement chapter 3 of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2016 with a commitment appropriation of eur 1 506 million and chapter 4 with a commitment appropriation of eur 24 million to be charged to the flexibility instrument. in its report, the committee on budgets considers the commission's proposal to be justified and recommends that parliament adopt it. i voted in favour of the motion accordingly.
in writing. ‒ after considering all the possibilities for the transfer of commitment appropriations within chapters 3 and 4 of the 2016 eu budget, it has become necessary to mobilise the flexibility instrument in favour of commitment appropriations. the european commission has therefore proposed to mobilise the flexibility instrument in order to supplement the resources of the general budget of the european union for 2016 with a commitment appropriation of eur 1 506 million in addition to the ceiling of chapter 3 to finance the actions under the european migration strategy. in addition to the eur 1 506 million over the ceiling of chapter 3, the conciliation committee convened for the 2016 budget also accepted the proposal of the parliament's delegation to mobilise an additional eur 24 million under the flexibility instrument over and above the ceiling of chapter 4 to address the external dimensions of the challenges posed by the refugee crisis. on the basis of the above, the european parliament has approved the mobilisation of the flexibility instrument in the form of commitment appropriations amounting to eur 1 530 million.
in writing. ‒ i myself voted to give the european parliament its approval for the mobilisation of the flexibility instrument, with an additional amount of eur 1 530 million over the next four years, in addition to the 2016 budgetary allocation, to supplement the community and member states' expenditure related to the refugee crisis. in this context, it had to be acknowledged that, in the context of the current budgetary structure and regulation, the rigid budgetary chapter ceilings make it impossible to finance such urgent tasks within or above a given budget chapter (chapters 3 and 4 where appropriate). for this reason, this report has also stressed the importance of making budgetary training and regulation more flexible, which i myself consider to be urgent. i am also concerned that the use of the flexibility instrument now decided is essentially due to the transfer of residues formed in 2014 and 2015, while such residues cannot be expected to be formed in the flexibility instrument in 2017.
in writing. ‒ in the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2016, the flexibility instrument shall be mobilised to provide a commitment appropriation of eur 1 506 million in chapter 3 (security and union citizenship) and a commitment appropriation of eur 24 million in chapter 4 (global europe). those amounts should be used to finance measures to deal with the refugee crisis. the mobilisation of this instrument under article 11 of the mff regulation re-emphasises the crucial need for the union budget to be more flexible. i voted for the motion.
in writing. ‒ the european union solidarity fund was set up to enable the european union to respond to major natural disasters. the multiannual financial framework for the period 2014-2020 allows the mobilisation of the fund up to an annual ceiling of eur 500 million, in addition to the ceilings of the relevant chapters of the financial framework. the proposal for the current decision of the european parliament and of the council is not related to a specific disaster. instead, it aims to allocate eur 50 million in the union budget for 2016 in the form of commitment and payment appropriations to pay advances in a timely and efficient manner in the event of a disaster that may occur in the following year. the advance thus allows the disbursement of aid to the countries concerned to be accelerated before the final award decision is taken. i supported the adoption of the report because it is important that the countries and territories affected by the disaster receive the aid to which they are entitled as soon as possible.
in writing. ‒ the european union solidarity fund (eusf) was established to enable the european union to respond immediately to major natural disasters and to express solidarity with europe's disaster-stricken regions. the multiannual financial framework for the period 2014-2020 allows the mobilisation of the fund up to an annual ceiling of eur 500 million (2011 prices), in addition to the ceilings of the relevant chapters of the financial framework. the proposal for a decision of the european parliament and of the council is not related to a specific disaster. the objective is to allocate eur 50 million in the union budget for 2016 in the form of commitment and payment appropriations to ensure that advances can be paid in a timely and efficient manner in the event of a disaster that may occur in the following year. the european parliament therefore agreed to enter the proposed amounts in the 2016 budget. as the proposal 'recourse to the eu solidarity fund for advance payments relating to the 2016 budget' is part of the package of agreements drawn up by the negotiating delegations of the european parliament and the council for the adoption of the 2016 eu budget, i supported the report in line with hungarian interests and the position of the ppe group.
in writing. ‒ the european union solidarity fund was established to enable the european union to respond immediately to major natural disasters and to express solidarity with europe's disaster-stricken regions. the multiannual financial framework for the period 2014-2020 allows the mobilisation of the fund up to a maximum annual ceiling of eur 500 million, over and above the ceilings of the chapters of the financial framework. the proposal for a decision of the european parliament and of the council is not related to a specific disaster. the objective is to allocate eur 50 million in the 2016 union budget in the form of commitment and payment appropriations in the event of a disaster that may occur in the following year, in order to pay advances in a timely and efficient manner. the european parliament therefore agreed to enter the proposed amounts in the 2016 budget. as the proposal for the mobilisation of the eu solidarity fund for the advance payments relating to the 2016 budget is part of the package of agreements drawn up by the negotiating delegations of the european parliament and the council for the adoption of the 2016 eu budget, i supported the report in line with hungarian interests and the position of the ppe group.
in writing. the european union solidarity fund (eusf) was established to enable the european union to respond immediately to major natural disasters and to express solidarity with europe's disaster-stricken regions. the multiannual financial framework for the period 2014-2020 allows the mobilisation of the fund up to an annual ceiling of eur 500 million (2011 prices), in addition to the ceilings of the relevant chapters of the financial framework. the proposal for a decision of the european parliament and of the council is not related to a specific disaster. the objective is to allocate eur 50 million in the union budget for 2016 in the form of commitment and payment appropriations to pay advances in a timely and efficient manner in the event of a disaster that may occur in the following year. the european parliament therefore agreed to enter the proposed amounts in the 2016 budget. as the proposal 'recourse to the eu solidarity fund for advance payments relating to the 2016 budget' is part of the package of agreements drawn up by the negotiating delegations of the european parliament and the council for the adoption of the 2016 eu budget, we supported the report in line with hungarian interests and the position of the pp group.
in writing. ‒ the european union solidarity fund (eusf) was established to enable the european union to respond immediately to major natural disasters and to express solidarity with europe's disaster-stricken regions. the multiannual financial framework for the period 2014-2020 allows the mobilisation of the fund up to an annual ceiling of eur 500 million (2011 prices), in addition to the ceilings of the relevant chapters of the financial framework. the proposal for a decision of the european parliament and of the council is not related to a specific disaster. the objective is to allocate eur 50 million in the 2016 union budget in the form of commitment and payment appropriations in the event of a disaster that may occur in the following year, in order to pay advances in a timely and efficient manner. the european parliament therefore agreed to enter the proposed amounts in the 2016 budget. as the proposal for the mobilisation of the eu solidarity fund for the advance payments relating to the 2016 budget is part of the package of agreements drawn up by the negotiating delegations of the european parliament and the council for the adoption of the 2016 eu budget, we supported the report in line with hungarian interests and the position of the pp group.
in writing. ‒ the european union solidarity fund (eusf) was set up to enable the european union to respond immediately to major natural disasters and to express solidarity with europe's disaster-stricken regions. the multiannual financial framework for the period 2014-2020 allows the mobilisation of the fund up to an annual ceiling of eur 500 million (2011 prices), in addition to the ceilings of the relevant chapters of the financial framework. the proposal for a decision of the european parliament and of the council is not related to a specific disaster. the objective is to allocate eur 50 million in the 2016 union budget in the form of commitment and payment appropriations in the event of a disaster that may occur in the following year, in order to pay advances in a timely and efficient manner. the european parliament therefore agreed to enter the proposed amounts in the 2016 budget. as the proposal for the mobilisation of the eu solidarity fund for the advance payments relating to the 2016 budget is part of the package of agreements drawn up by the negotiating delegations of the european parliament and the council for the adoption of the 2016 eu budget, we supported the report in line with hungarian interests and the position of the pp group.
in writing. ‒ the european union solidarity fund (eusf) was established to enable the european union to respond immediately to major natural disasters and to express solidarity with europe's disaster-stricken regions. the multiannual financial framework for the period 2014-2020 allows the mobilisation of the fund up to an annual ceiling of eur 500 million (2011 prices), in addition to the ceilings of the relevant chapters of the financial framework. the proposal for a decision of the european parliament and of the council is not related to a specific disaster. the objective is to allocate eur 50 million in the 2016 union budget in the form of commitment and payment appropriations in the event of a disaster that may occur in the following year, in order to pay advances in a timely and efficient manner. the european parliament therefore agreed to enter the proposed amounts in the 2016 budget. as the proposal for the mobilisation of the eu solidarity fund for the advance payments relating to the 2016 budget is part of the package of agreements drawn up by the negotiating delegations of the european parliament and the council for the adoption of the 2016 eu budget, we supported the report in line with hungarian interests and the position of the pp group.
in writing. ‒ the european union solidarity fund (eusf) was established to enable the european union to respond immediately to major natural disasters and to express solidarity with europe's disaster-stricken regions. the multiannual financial framework for the period 2014-2020 allows the mobilisation of the fund up to an annual ceiling of eur 500 million (2011 prices), in addition to the ceilings of the relevant chapters of the financial framework. the proposal for a decision of the european parliament and of the council is not related to a specific disaster. the objective is to allocate eur 50 million in the 2016 union budget in the form of commitment and payment appropriations in the event of a disaster that may occur in the following year, in order to pay advances in a timely and efficient manner. the european parliament therefore agreed to enter the proposed amounts in the 2016 budget. as the proposal for the mobilisation of the eu solidarity fund for the advance payments relating to the 2016 budget is part of the package of agreements drawn up by the negotiating delegations of the european parliament and the council for the adoption of the 2016 eu budget, we supported the report in line with hungarian interests and the position of the pp group.
in writing. ‒ the european union solidarity fund (eusf) was established to enable the european union to respond immediately to major natural disasters and to express solidarity with europe's disaster-stricken regions. the multiannual financial framework for the period 2014-2020 allows the mobilisation of the fund up to an annual ceiling of eur 500 million (2011 prices), in addition to the ceilings of the relevant chapters of the financial framework. the proposal for a decision of the european parliament and of the council is not related to a specific disaster. it aims to set aside eur 50 million in the union budget for 2016 in the form of commitment and payment appropriations for a possible disaster in the following year. its purpose is to ensure that advances are paid in a timely and efficient manner. the european parliament therefore agreed to enter the proposed amounts in the 2016 budget. as the proposal for the mobilisation of the eu solidarity fund for the advance payments relating to the 2016 budget is part of the package of agreements drawn up by the negotiating delegations of the european parliament and the council for the adoption of the 2016 eu budget, we supported the report in line with hungarian interests and the position of the pp group.
in writing. ‒ the european union solidarity fund (eusf) was set up to enable the european union to respond immediately to major natural disasters and to express solidarity with europe's disaster-stricken regions. the multiannual financial framework for the period 2014-2020 allows the mobilisation of the fund up to an annual ceiling of eur 500 million (2011 prices), in addition to the ceilings of the relevant chapters of the financial framework. the proposal for a decision of the european parliament and of the council is not related to a specific disaster. the objective is to allocate eur 50 million in the 2016 union budget in the form of commitment and payment appropriations in the event of a disaster that may occur in the following year, in order to pay advances in a timely and efficient manner. the european parliament therefore agreed to enter the proposed amounts in the 2016 budget. as the proposal for the mobilisation of the eu solidarity fund for the advance payments relating to the 2016 budget is part of the package of agreements drawn up by the negotiating delegations of the european parliament and the council for the adoption of the 2016 eu budget, we supported the report in line with hungarian interests and the position of the pp group.
in writing. natural disasters have increased, in large part because of forced, reckless, and unsustainable development. it is of the utmost importance that the countries affected by these crises receive aid as soon as possible, and this report on the general and rapid access to the european social fund is therefore to be supported. it's also a clever technical solution that doesn't require extra coverage, but it does speed up the payout.
in writing. ‒ the european union solidarity fund (eusf) was established to enable the european union to respond to major natural disasters and to express european solidarity with europe's disaster-stricken regions. the multiannual financial framework for the period 2014-2020 allows the mobilisation of the fund up to a maximum of eur 500 million per year. one of the provisions of regulation (eu) no 661/2014 amending the conditions for mobilising the fund provides for the possibility of accelerating the disbursement of assistance to the countries concerned by means of an advance payment of up to 10% of the expected financial contribution, paid before the final decision on the award is taken. the commission has proposed the adoption of a decision of the european parliament and of the council allocating eur 50 million in the 2016 union budget in commitment and payment appropriations to pay advances in a timely and efficient manner in the event of a disaster occurring in the following year. in its report, the committee on budgets of the european parliament recommends that parliament approve the draft decision. i voted for the motion.
in writing. ‒ the european union solidarity fund (eusf) was established to enable the european union to respond immediately to major natural disasters and to express solidarity with europe's disaster-stricken regions. the multiannual financial framework for the period 2014-2020 allows the mobilisation of the fund up to an annual ceiling of eur 500 million (2011 prices), in addition to the ceilings of the relevant chapters of the financial framework. the proposal for a decision of the european parliament and of the council is not related to a specific disaster. the objective is to allocate eur 50 million in the union budget for 2016 in the form of commitment and payment appropriations to pay advances in a timely and efficient manner in the event of a disaster that may occur in the following year. the european parliament therefore agreed to enter the proposed amounts in the 2016 budget.
in writing. ‒ the european union solidarity fund (eusf) was established to enable the european union to respond to major natural disasters and to express european solidarity with europe's disaster-stricken regions. the fund provides financial assistance to member states and countries negotiating accession in the event of 'major natural disasters'. the proposal for the current decision of the european parliament and of the council is not related to a specific disaster. instead, it aims to allocate eur 50 million in the union budget for 2016 in the form of commitment and payment appropriations to pay advances in a timely and efficient manner in the event of a disaster that may occur in the following year. i voted in favor of the motion.
in writing. ‒ eu funds to hungary were also provided in 2016. attempts to link the payment of cohesion funds to the implementation of the rules on quotas for the relocation of migrants were thwarted. the commission has also been able to increase the appropriations for programmes to help tackle the migration crisis by eur 2 billion. the majority of the surplus funds, in line with the hungarian government's position, will be spent in countries struggling on the front line of the crisis and will contribute to addressing the conflicts that are fuelling the wave of immigration at the point of origin. i consider the reversal of the reduction in the pre-accession fund (ipa) previously proposed by the council to be a success, as these instruments are decisive for the accession aspirations of the candidate countries, such as serbia and the hungarians in the former yugoslavia. in addition to the actual financial support, maintaining the level of the pre-accession fund also carries an important political message and encouragement for the candidate countries. i also supported the joint project 'diverse europe'. under this, €1 million will be available to applicants to finance minority programmes supporting the elimination of discrimination. on the basis of the above, and in line with the people's party's position, i supported the report.
in writing. ‒ the eu funds due to hungary were also provided in 2016. attempts to link the payment of cohesion funds to the implementation of the rules on quotas for the relocation of migrants were thwarted. the fact that we have increased programmes to help tackle the migration crisis by eur 2 billion is a remarkable achievement. the majority of the surplus funds will be spent in countries that are struggling on the front line of the crisis, in line with the hungarian government's position, and will contribute to addressing the conflicts that are fuelling the wave of immigration at the point of origin. i think it is important to stress that the reversal of the reduction in the pre-accession fund (ipa) previously proposed by the council was also achieved. these instruments have a decisive influence on the accession aspirations of the candidate countries, such as serbia and the former hungarians. in addition to the actual financial support, maintaining the level of the pre-accession fund also carries an important political message and encouragement for the candidate countries. the closing vote will allow the eu budget for 2016 to provide the funds for the €500 million dairy rescue package. all obstacles are removed to ensure that hungarian milk producers receive the huf 2,9 billion in eu aid on time. on the basis of the above and in line with the people's party's position, i supported the report.
in writing. the €2 billion increase in programmes to help tackle the migration crisis is a remarkable achievement. the majority of the surplus funds will be spent in countries that are struggling on the front line of the crisis, in line with the hungarian government's position, and will contribute to addressing the conflicts that are fuelling the wave of immigration at the point of origin. the hungarian people's party mps are delighted to see the council reverse the previously proposed reduction in the pre-accession fund (ipa), as these funds are a key factor in the accession aspirations of candidate countries such as serbia and the hungarians in the former yugoslavia. in addition to the actual financial support, maintaining the level of the pre-accession fund also carries an important political message and encouragement for the candidate countries. the closing vote will allow the eu budget for 2016 to provide the funds for the €500 million dairy rescue package. all obstacles are removed to ensure that hungarian milk producers receive the huf 2,9 billion in eu aid on time. we also supported the csáky pál and gál kinga joint project 'europe of colours'. under this, €1 million will be available to applicants to finance minority programmes supporting the elimination of discrimination. on the basis of the above, and in line with the people's party's position, we supported the report.
in writing. ‒ the eu funds due to hungary were also provided in 2016. attempts to link the payment of cohesion funds to the implementation of the rules on quotas for the relocation of migrants were thwarted. the fact that we have increased programmes to help tackle the migration crisis by eur 2 billion is a remarkable achievement. the majority of the surplus funds will be spent in countries that are struggling on the front line of the crisis, in line with the hungarian government's position, and will contribute to addressing the conflicts that are fuelling the wave of immigration at the point of origin. the hungarian people's party mps are delighted to see the council reverse the previously proposed reduction in the pre-accession fund (ipa), as these funds are a key factor in the accession aspirations of candidate countries such as serbia and the hungarians in the former yugoslavia. in addition to the actual financial support, maintaining the level of the pre-accession fund also carries an important political message and encouragement for the candidate countries. the closing vote will allow the eu budget for 2016 to provide the funds for the €500 million dairy rescue package. all obstacles are removed to ensure that hungarian milk producers receive the huf 2,9 billion in eu aid on time. we also supported the csáky pál and gál kinga joint project 'europe of colours'. under this, €1 million will be available to applicants to finance minority programmes supporting the elimination of discrimination. on the basis of the above, we supported the report in line with the people's party's position.
in writing. ‒ the eu funds due to hungary were also provided in 2016. attempts to link the payment of cohesion funds to the implementation of the rules on quotas for the relocation of migrants were thwarted. the fact that we have increased programmes to help tackle the migration crisis by eur 2 billion is a remarkable achievement. the majority of the surplus funds will be spent in countries that are struggling on the front line of the crisis, in line with the hungarian government's position, and will contribute to addressing the conflicts that are fuelling the wave of immigration at the point of origin. the hungarian people's party mps are delighted to see the council reverse the previously proposed reduction in the pre-accession fund (ipa), as these funds are a key factor in the accession aspirations of candidate countries such as serbia and the hungarians in the former yugoslavia. in addition to the actual financial support, maintaining the level of the pre-accession fund also carries an important political message and encouragement for the candidate countries. the closing vote will allow the eu budget for 2016 to provide the funds for the €500 million dairy rescue package. all obstacles are removed to ensure that hungarian milk producers receive the huf 2,9 billion in eu aid on time. we also supported the csáky pál and gál kinga joint project 'europe of colours'. under this, €1 million will be available to applicants to finance minority programmes supporting the elimination of discrimination. on the basis of the above, and in line with the people's party's position, we supported the report.
in writing. ‒ the eu funds due to hungary were also provided in 2016. attempts to link the payment of cohesion funds to the implementation of the rules on quotas for the relocation of migrants were thwarted. the fact that we have increased programmes to help tackle the migration crisis by eur 2 billion is a remarkable achievement. the majority of the surplus funds will be spent in countries that are struggling on the front line of the crisis, in line with the hungarian government's position, and will contribute to addressing the conflicts that are fuelling the wave of immigration at the point of origin. the hungarian people's party mps are delighted to see the council reverse the previously proposed reduction in the pre-accession fund (ipa), as these funds are a key factor in the accession aspirations of candidate countries such as serbia and the hungarians in the former yugoslavia. in addition to the actual financial support, maintaining the level of the pre-accession fund also carries an important political message and encouragement for the candidate countries. the closing vote will allow the eu budget for 2016 to provide the funds for the €500 million dairy rescue package. all obstacles are removed to ensure that hungarian milk producers receive the huf 2,9 billion in eu aid on time. we also supported the csáky pál and gál kinga joint project 'europe of colours'. under this, €1 million will be available to applicants to finance minority programmes supporting the elimination of discrimination. on the basis of the above, and in line with the people's party's position, we supported the report.
in writing. ‒ we have secured the eu funds due to hungary for 2016. attempts to link the payment of cohesion funds to the implementation of the rules on quotas for the relocation of migrants were thwarted. the fact that we have increased programmes to help tackle the migration crisis by eur 2 billion is a remarkable achievement. the majority of the surplus funds will be spent in countries that are struggling on the front line of the crisis, in line with the hungarian government's position, and will contribute to addressing the conflicts that are fuelling the wave of immigration at the point of origin. the hungarian people's party mps are delighted to see the council reverse the previously proposed reduction in the pre-accession fund (ipa), as these funds are a key factor in the accession aspirations of candidate countries such as serbia and the hungarians in the former yugoslavia. in addition to the actual financial support, maintaining the level of the pre-accession fund also carries an important political message and encouragement for the candidate countries. the closing vote will allow the eu budget for 2016 to provide the funds for the €500 million dairy rescue package. all obstacles are removed to ensure that hungarian milk producers receive the huf 2,9 billion in eu aid on time. we also supported the csáky pál and gál kinga joint project 'europe of colours'. under this, €1 million will be available to applicants to finance minority programmes supporting the elimination of discrimination. on the basis of the above, and in line with the people's party's position, we supported the report.
in writing. ‒ eu funds to hungary were also provided in 2016. attempts to link the payment of cohesion funds to the implementation of the rules on quotas for the relocation of migrants were thwarted. the fact that we have increased programmes to help tackle the migration crisis by eur 2 billion is a remarkable achievement. the majority of the surplus funds will be spent in countries that are struggling on the front line of the crisis, in line with the hungarian government's position, and will contribute to addressing the conflicts that are fuelling the wave of immigration at the point of origin. the hungarian people's party mps are delighted to see the council reverse the previously proposed reduction in the pre-accession fund (ipa), as these funds are a key factor in the accession aspirations of candidate countries such as serbia and the hungarians in the former yugoslavia. in addition to the actual financial support, maintaining the level of the pre-accession fund also carries an important political message and encouragement for the candidate countries. the closing vote will allow the eu budget for 2016 to provide the funds for the €500 million dairy rescue package. all obstacles are removed to ensure that hungarian milk producers receive the huf 2,9 billion in eu aid on time. we also supported the csáky pál and gál kinga joint project 'europe of colours'. under this, €1 million will be available to applicants to finance minority programmes supporting the elimination of discrimination. on the basis of the above, and in line with the people's party's position, i supported the report.
in writing. ‒ the eu funds due to hungary were also provided in 2016. attempts to link the payment of cohesion funds to the implementation of the rules on quotas for the relocation of migrants were thwarted. the fact that we have increased programmes to help tackle the migration crisis by eur 2 billion is a remarkable achievement. the majority of the surplus funds will be spent in countries that are struggling on the front line of the crisis, in line with the hungarian government's position, and will contribute to addressing the conflicts that are fuelling the wave of immigration at the point of origin. the hungarian people's party mps are delighted to see the council reverse the previously proposed reduction in the pre-accession fund (ipa), as these funds are a key factor in the accession aspirations of candidate countries such as serbia and the hungarians in the former yugoslavia. in addition to the actual financial support, maintaining the level of the pre-accession fund also carries an important political message and encouragement for the candidate countries. the closing vote will allow the eu budget for 2016 to provide the funds for the €500 million dairy rescue package. all obstacles are removed to ensure that hungarian milk producers receive the huf 2,9 billion in eu aid on time. we also supported the csáky pál and gál kinga joint project 'europe of colours'. under this, €1 million will be available to applicants to finance minority programmes supporting the elimination of discrimination. on the basis of the above, and in line with the people's party's position, i supported the report.
in writing. it is essentially a formal vote, since the budget is intended to fix the previously adopted budgetary limits. but i thought the no vote was important because i cannot express enough that i do not agree with the unsustainable neoliberal economic policy model that is being unthinkingly pushed further. and the budget is nothing more than the expression of economic policy, which in this case is the road to a dead end.
in writing. ‒ on 24 june 2015, the commission adopted the draft general budget of the european union for the financial year 2016. on 17 september 2015, the council forwarded its position on the draft to parliament, which adopted a resolution on the subject and proposed budgetary amendments on 28 october 2015. on this basis, the conciliation committee on budgets between parliament, the council and the commission approved the joint text of the draft general budget of the european union for the financial year 2016, which was recommended to parliament for adoption in the report of parliament's delegation to the conciliation committee. i therefore voted in favour of the motion.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the european parliament adopting the 2016 budget of the european union. i considered that, following the conciliation procedure, an interinstitutional compromise had been reached on the basis of which 155 billion at commitment level and almost 144 billion at payment appropriation level, broken down by chapter and by priority, would be sufficient to cover community expenditure for the following year. i considered that the main aspect was that the negotiations had led to a substantial increase in the proportion of european economic growth and job creation and in the proportion of aid for research and training within the budget. i consider it equally important that the resources needed to deal with the unexpected and burdensome refugee crisis for the eu at community and national level have been supplemented by an additional eur 800 million. in addition, the composition and the adoption process of the 2016 eu budget once again highlight that common tasks and challenges require more flexibility than at present and require a more cooperative approach and modern financial planning methods, in particular by the member states and the council. i trust that, and as a member, i will work to ensure that this aspect is taken into account in the forthcoming review of the mff in 2016.
in writing. ‒ in the context of the budgetary procedure, the conciliation committee approved the common draft text of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2016. i voted in favor of the motion.
in writing. ‒ phthalates are widely used to soften pvc. in terms of their environmental and health effects, studies carried out over many years have shown a clear distinction between phthalates with short hydrocarbon chains and phthalates with long hydrocarbon chains. a large number of studies, including those carried out by several independent organisations, have shown that high molecular weight phthalates do not pose any health risk to humans. the eu competent bodies therefore decided that they should not be given a restrictive label and should not be included in the list of substances awaiting authorisation. however, low-mass substances, which are also included in the list of substances of very high concern, have adverse effects on the mammalian hormonal system and have reproductive effects and are currently being considered for authorisation. since the commission is accountable to the european citizens and the protection of citizens and the environment from hazardous chemicals is a priority, i supported the resolution. accordingly, the commission should withdraw its draft implementing decision and submit a new draft decision to the parliament and the council refusing to grant the authorisation.
in writing. ‒ i consider that the draft commission implementing decision goes beyond the implementing powers set out in the relevant regulation. a number of questions arise regarding the authorisation of the use of these substances. i find it worrying that in the case of dehp, it has been shown to adversely affect the mammalian hormonal system by lowering testosterone levels. furthermore, scientific evidence shows that exposure to dehp at sensitive developmental times may cause irreversible effects on the developmental programme with serious effects on development and reproduction, and these effects are considered to be particularly serious for human health and wildlife. it is known that dehp can be substituted by a number of substances and the applicants have not provided a comprehensive analysis of the alternatives available on the market to replace the use of dehp in the applications requested. in the light of the above, i consider it appropriate to call on the commission to withdraw its draft implementing decision and to submit a new draft rejecting the applications for authorisation of recycled soft pvc containing dehp.
in writing. ‒ i supported the objection as proposed by the envi committee. since there is a high risk that dehp can affect the human reproductive system, and its application in pvc products is not well specified, i cannot support granting authorisation for use of this substance.
in writing. ‒ dehp is a widely used material in pvc, but it is not chemically bound to the plastic and thus easily leaches into the environment. there is scientific evidence of endocrine disrupting effects of dehp and of a causal relationship between these effects and adverse effects on human health. the commission has submitted a draft implementing decision to grant an application for authorisation of the use of recycled soft pvc containing dehp. parliament's committee on the environment, public health and food safety, in its report, points out that it considers that the draft commission implementing decision exceeds the implementing powers provided for in regulation (ec) no 1907/2006 and therefore proposes that parliament calls on the commission to withdraw the draft implementing decision and to submit a new draft rejecting the applications for authorisation of recycled soft pvc containing dehp. i supported the motion.
in writing. ‒ the commission intends to identify dehp as a substance of very high concern by means of a draft implementing decision on the identification of bis (2-ethylhexyl) phthalate (dehp), di-butyl phthalate (dbp), benzyl-butyl phthalate (bbp) and di-isobutyl phthalate (dibp) as substances of very high concern in accordance with article 57 (f) of regulation (ec) no 1907/2006 of the european parliament and of the council. i voted for the motion.
in writing. ‒ the depleted public coffers and the burden of equity are increasingly pushing the member states of the european union to coordinate their efforts to combat tax fraud and tax evasion. the issue seems to have become a permanent feature of the ep, with a new committee set up to strengthen it. the first submission of this committee is this report. as we all see, the long economic crisis has had the side effect of increasing the demand for the discovery of hidden income in the eu and globally, which the european commission estimates is costing member states tens of billions of dollars a year. the need for fiscal adjustment and fair burden-sharing necessitated by the crisis appears to increase the capacity of eu member states, traditionally reluctant in tax matters, to step up and coordinate their action against tax fraud and tax evasion. i voted in favour of this report because i believe that we must continue to commit ourselves to accelerating the adoption of the eu proposals already put forward in tax evasion cases and to implementing the measures already adopted.
in writing. ‒ the depleted public coffers and the burden of equity are increasingly pushing the member states of the european union to coordinate their efforts to combat tax fraud and tax evasion. it seems that this topic has become a permanent feature of our parliament, since we have been able to set up a new committee to strengthen it, and its first product has finally claimed a place on our plenary agenda for some time. as we all see, the long economic crisis has had the side effect of increasing the demand for the discovery of hidden income in the eu and globally, which the european commission estimates is costing member states tens of billions of dollars a year. the need for fiscal adjustment and fair burden-sharing necessitated by the crisis appears to increase the capacity of eu member states, traditionally reluctant in tax matters, to step up and coordinate their action against tax fraud and tax evasion. i believe that we must also take decisive action in parallel in the various international fora - such as the oecd and the g20 - to ensure that others follow europe's lead and that no one is left out of its global efforts to combat tax fraud and tax evasion. i voted in favour of this report because i believe that we must continue to commit ourselves to accelerating the adoption of the eu proposals already put forward in tax evasion cases and to implementing the measures already adopted.
in writing. ‒ the depleted public coffers and the burden of equity are increasingly pushing the member states of the european union to coordinate their efforts to combat tax fraud and tax evasion. it seems that this topic has become a permanent feature of our parliament, since we have been able to set up a new committee to strengthen it, and its first product has finally claimed a place on our plenary agenda for some time. as we all see, the long economic crisis has had the side effect of increasing the demand in the eu and globally for the discovery of hidden income, which the european commission estimates is costing member states tens of billions of dollars a year. the need for fiscal adjustment and fair burden-sharing necessitated by the crisis appears to increase the capacity of eu member states, traditionally reluctant in tax matters, to step up and coordinate their action against tax fraud and tax evasion. i believe that we must also take decisive action in parallel in the various international fora such as the oecd and the g20 to ensure that others follow europe's example and that no one is left out of its global efforts to combat tax fraud and tax evasion. i voted in favour of this report because i believe that we must continue to commit ourselves to accelerating the adoption of the eu proposals already put forward in tax evasion cases and to implementing the measures already adopted.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because i believe that we must continue to commit ourselves to accelerating the adoption of the eu proposals already put forward in tax evasion cases and to implementing the measures already adopted. the need for fiscal adjustment and fair burden-sharing necessitated by the crisis appears to increase the capacity of eu member states, traditionally reluctant in tax matters, to step up and coordinate their action against tax fraud and tax evasion. we must also act decisively in the various international fora - such as the oecd and the g20 - to ensure that others follow europe's lead and that no one is left behind in its global efforts to combat tax fraud and tax evasion.
in writing. ‒ i supported the report, especially its priorities on transparency. i believe that the union can become a model and a global leader in tax transparency, but this requires targeted and effective measures. i urge that support for transparency and tax administration investigations be given critical importance in order to increase the public accountability of multinational corporations. i also consider it important that transparency can have a strong deterrent effect and change behaviour, both through the risk to the reputation of companies that do not comply with the rules and through the provision of information to the competent authorities, which can then take corrective measures and sanctions. in my view, a balance must be struck between the need for transparency and the need to protect sensitive commercial interests and to comply with data protection rules.
in writing. ‒ the depleted public coffers and the burden of equity are increasingly pushing the member states of the european union to coordinate their efforts to combat tax fraud and tax evasion. the subject has become a permanent feature of the european parliament, with the creation of a new committee to strengthen it, and its first product now demands a place on our plenary agenda. as we all see, the long economic crisis has had the side effect of increasing the demand for the discovery of hidden income in the eu and globally, which the european commission estimates is costing member states tens of billions of dollars a year. the need for fiscal adjustment and fair burden-sharing necessitated by the crisis appears to increase the capacity of eu member states, traditionally reluctant in tax matters, to step up and coordinate their action against tax fraud and tax evasion. i believe that we must also take decisive action in parallel in the various international fora - such as the oecd and the g20 - to ensure that others follow europe's example and that no country is left out of the global effort to combat tax evasion and avoidance. i voted in favour of this report because i believe that we must continue to commit ourselves to accelerating the adoption of the eu proposals already put forward in tax evasion cases and to implementing the measures already adopted.
in writing. ‒ the depleted public coffers and the burden of equity are increasingly pushing the member states of the european union to coordinate their efforts to combat tax fraud and tax evasion. the issue has become a constant in parliament, and a new committee has been set up to look into such cases. one consequence of the prolonged economic crisis has been the increased demand for the discovery of hidden income both in europe and globally. the european commission estimates that tax evasion and tax fraud are costing member states tens of billions of euros in revenue every year. the need for fiscal adjustment and fair burden-sharing brought about by the crisis is increasing the capacity of eu member states, traditionally reluctant in tax matters, to step up and coordinate their action against tax fraud and tax evasion. to do this, we need to make our voices heard in various international fora, such as the oecd and the g20. we must also act decisively to ensure that others follow europe's example and that no one is left behind in its global efforts to combat tax fraud and tax evasion. i believe that we must remain committed to accelerating the adoption of the eu proposals in tax evasion cases and to implementing the measures adopted. i voted in favour of the report for all these reasons.
in writing. ‒ the depleted public coffers and the burden of equity are increasingly pushing the member states of the european union to coordinate their efforts to combat tax fraud and tax evasion. it seems that this topic has become a permanent feature of our parliament, since we have been able to set up a new committee to strengthen it, and its first product has finally claimed a place on our plenary agenda for some time. as we all see, the long economic crisis has had the side effect of increasing the demand in the eu and globally for the discovery of hidden income, which the european commission estimates is costing member states tens of billions of dollars a year. the need for fiscal adjustment and fair burden-sharing necessitated by the crisis appears to increase the capacity of eu member states, traditionally reluctant in tax matters, to step up and coordinate their action against tax fraud and tax evasion. i believe that we must also take decisive action in parallel in the various international fora such as the oecd and the g20 to ensure that others follow europe's example and that no one is left out of its global efforts to combat tax fraud and tax evasion. i voted in favour of this report because i believe that we must continue to commit ourselves to accelerating the adoption of the eu proposals already put forward in tax evasion cases and to implementing the measures already adopted.
in writing. ‒ the special committee on tax evaluations and other measures similar in nature or effect was set up following the scandal of luxembourg tax evaluations, known as 'luxleaks'. in its report, the committee proposes that parliament declare that the european commission has failed to fulfil its role as guardian of the treaties, as defined in article 17 (1) of the treaty on european union, by failing to act on this matter and by not taking the necessary steps to inform the member states and enforce their obligations, despite evidence that they are not fulfilling their obligations. it also proposes that the commission should declare that it has failed to fulfil its obligations under article 108 of the treaty on the functioning of the internal market by not initiating an investigation of state aid earlier. i supported the motion.
in writing. ‒ the need for fiscal adjustment and fair burden-sharing necessitated by the crisis appears to increase the capacity of eu member states, traditionally reluctant in tax matters, to step up and coordinate their action against tax fraud and tax evasion. the various international fora such as the oecd and the g20 must also act decisively to ensure that others follow europe's lead and that no one is left behind in its global efforts to combat tax fraud and tax evasion.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on conditional tax assessments, which is an important milestone in our fight against corporate tax fraud. the report provides detailed and clear guidance to member states and the commission on the means to curb tax avoidance by multinational companies. the country-by-country report, the sharing of information on national tax rulings, the blacklisting of tax havens, the common consolidated tax base and the establishment of uniform tax definitions are all proposals that contribute to the creation of a transparent tax system and ensure that the tax burden is no longer almost exclusively borne by smes and citizens. i was pleased to see that the report clearly states that taxes should be paid in the member state where the profits are generated, thus avoiding unfair competition. there is a need to establish a comprehensive legislative framework for corporate taxation in europe, which should be centred on this principle. there's a lot of hard work behind this detailed, in-depth report. if european governments commit themselves and take our recommendations into account, we can put an end to the practice of tax treaties in europe once and for all.
in writing. ‒ on 5 november 2014, the luxleaks scandal, thanks to the international consortium of investigative journalists, in which some 28 000 pages of confidential documents containing more than 500 private tax agreements concluded between the luxembourg tax authorities and more than 300 multinational companies between 2002 and 2010 were made public revealed the prevalence of secret agreements with complex financial structures designed to obtain drastic tax benefits. since there is a need to take meaningful action against tax evasion and tax fraud, i supported the report and the continuation of the work of the taxe committee.
in writing. ‒ the paris attacks have made it clear that the european union must act to combat terrorism and prevent the radicalisation of eu citizens. while combating radicalisation remains a primary responsibility of the member states, a coordinated european approach is needed. it is estimated that more than five thousand european citizens have travelled to iraq and syria to receive training from terrorist organisations. this is a real security threat to the whole of europe. punitive measures alone are no longer enough. the union needs a new strategy based on prevention. as this report puts the emphasis on a proactive approach to the radicalisation of european citizens and recruitment by terrorist organisations, i voted in favour of it as a member of the fidesz delegation.
in writing. ‒ the paris attacks have made it clear that the european union must act to combat terrorism and prevent the radicalisation of eu citizens. while combating radicalisation remains a primary responsibility of the member states, a coordinated european approach is needed. it is estimated that more than five thousand european citizens have travelled to iraq and syria to receive training from terrorist organisations. this is a real security threat to the whole of europe. criminal justice alone is not enough. the union needs a new strategy based on prevention. as this report puts the emphasis on a proactive approach to the radicalisation of european citizens and recruitment by terrorist organisations, i voted in favour of it as a member of the fidesz delegation.
in writing. the paris terrorist attacks have made it clear that the european union must act to combat terrorism and prevent the radicalisation of eu citizens. while combating radicalisation remains a primary responsibility of the member states, a coordinated european approach is needed. it is estimated that more than five thousand european citizens have travelled to iraq and syria to receive training from terrorist organisations. this is a real security threat to the whole of europe. punitive measures alone are no longer enough. the union needs a new strategy based on prevention. as this report puts the emphasis on a proactive approach to the radicalisation of european citizens and recruitment by terrorist organisations, i voted in favour of it as a member of the fidesz delegation.
in writing. ‒ the paris attacks have made it clear that the european union must act to combat terrorism and prevent the radicalisation of eu citizens. while combating radicalisation remains a primary responsibility of the member states, a coordinated european approach is needed. it is estimated that more than five thousand european citizens have travelled to iraq and syria to receive training from terrorist organisations. this is a real security threat to the whole of europe. criminal justice alone is not enough. the union needs a new strategy based on prevention. as this report puts the emphasis on a proactive approach to the radicalisation of european citizens and recruitment by terrorist organisations, i voted in favour of it as a member of the fidesz delegation.
in writing. ‒ the attacks in paris highlighted the urgency with which the european union needed to take action on combating terrorism and preventing the radicalisation of its citizens. member states have core competence in combating the radicalisation of eu citizens; however, a concerted eu approach is needed to be effective. it is now estimated that over 5 000 eu citizens have left to be trained by terrorist organisations in iraq and syria. according to european law enforcement agencies and intelligence services reports, efficient prevention of radicalisation should start where the recruitment occurs in the first place. i voted in favour of this report and hope that the concrete measures proposed in this text will be implemented as quickly as possible.
in writing. ‒ i am convinced that schools and education play an important role in preventing radicalisation. schools play a key role in social integration, critical thinking and the promotion of non-discrimination. it is important that member states encourage educational institutions to offer courses and curricula aimed at strengthening understanding and tolerance, in particular with regard to different religions and ideologies. the fundamental values and democratic principles of the union, including the need for human rights education, should be a high priority. i believe that it is the duty of the member states to ensure that their education systems respect and promote the values and principles of the union and that the functioning of these systems does not run counter to the principles of non-discrimination and integration.
in writing. ‒ the paris attacks have made it clear that the european union must act to combat terrorism and prevent the radicalisation of eu citizens. while combating radicalisation remains a primary responsibility of the member states, a coordinated european approach is needed. it is estimated that more than five thousand european citizens have travelled to iraq and syria to receive training from terrorist organisations. this is a real security threat to the whole of europe. criminal justice alone is not enough. the union needs a new strategy based on prevention. as this report puts the emphasis on a proactive approach to the radicalisation of european citizens and recruitment by terrorist organisations, i voted in favour of it as a member of the fidesz-kdnp delegation.
in writing. ‒ the epp group has a tradition of several decades of providing a forum for the discussion of current issues in interreligious dialogue in the european parliament. our task force had just held a groundbreaking meeting in the days before the paris attacks to discuss ways to counter radical islam. last week, for the first time, we had the opportunity to bring together representatives and imams who reject extremist interpretations of islam to discuss the causes of interfaith tensions and the directions for common action. today's report emphasizes the importance of education and interfaith dialogue as the primary arenas for preventing radicalism. the events in paris have confirmed our findings in our working group that in these difficult times, there is a real need for the partnership of your authentic teachers, for regular dialogue, as extremists spread distorted, misconceived interpretations of islam among our citizens. today, we can certainly see that religion remains a fundamental european issue. we must remember that religious communities remain an integral part of society and will not diminish in importance in the future. i also agree with the approach taken in the report, which is that the fight against radicalisation cannot be limited to certain extremist groups, such as islamist extremists. so it is our shared responsibility to curb further forms of religious radicalism. today's report is another sign of the commitment of the people's party to continue the dialogue and to seek solutions together, which is why i supported its adoption.
in writing. ‒ the paris attacks have made it clear that the european union must act to combat terrorism and prevent the radicalisation of eu citizens. while combating radicalisation remains a primary responsibility of the member states, a coordinated european approach is needed. it is estimated that more than five thousand european citizens have travelled to iraq and syria to receive training from terrorist organisations. this is a real security threat to the whole of europe. criminal justice alone is not enough. the union needs a new strategy based on prevention. as this report puts the emphasis on a proactive approach to the radicalisation of european citizens and recruitment by terrorist organisations, i voted in favour of it as a member of the fidesz delegation.
in writing. ‒ the report of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs concludes that the radicalisation of european citizens poses a real security threat to europe, the eu member states and neighbouring countries. the acceleration of this phenomenon is no longer met by punitive measures, but requires a coordinated european approach to combat effectively the threat posed by these radicalised and by european citizens with free movement within the european territory. the report deals with the prevention of the radicalisation of european citizens and recruitment by terrorist organisations. it shall make recommendations for a european strategy to prevent the radicalisation and recruitment of european citizens. i voted for the motion.
in writing. ‒ i supported the adoption of the report because i consider it to be not only extremely timely, but also thorough, covering all the relevant aspects of the subject, given the serious security challenge facing the eu in the wake of the recent terrorist attacks. i agree that the eu can only respond to this challenge in a unified way, with a focus on prevention. i consider it particularly crucial to prevent the radicalisation of young people and have advocated in my political career to limit extremist, xenophobic, anti-semitic, anti-minority and anti-democratic content on the internet and in media channels and to counterbalance their influence in education. (as a hungarian representative, i am particularly sensitive to these aspects, as extremist views are also present in my own country, while the government itself, instead of effective prevention, is spreading anti-foreigner rhetoric, and in fact, in this context, links the refugee crisis with terrorism. ) in terms of the possibilities for improving eu cooperation, i consider it a virtue of the report that it highlights the importance of closer exchange of information within the eu and better cooperation with third countries. i also consider it important to note that combating terrorism and radicalisation cannot mean abandoning the european principles of fundamental civil liberties.
in writing. ‒ the paris attacks have made it clear that the european union must act to combat terrorism and prevent the radicalisation of eu citizens. while combating radicalisation remains a primary responsibility of the member states, a coordinated european approach is needed. it is estimated that more than five thousand european citizens have travelled to iraq and syria to receive training from terrorist organisations. this is a real security threat to the whole of europe. criminal justice alone is not enough. the union needs a new strategy based on prevention. as this report puts the emphasis on a proactive approach to the radicalisation of european citizens and recruitment by terrorist organisations, i voted in favour of it as a member of the fidesz delegation.
in writing. ‒ the fight against terrorism, the prevention of the radicalisation of european citizens and the recruitment of terrorist organisations remain primarily the responsibility of the member states. however, european cooperation is essential for the efficient and effective exchange of information between law enforcement authorities in order to combat cross-border terrorist threats. a coordinated european approach is therefore needed, which provides added value in terms of harmonising and, where appropriate, harmonising the legislation in force in the areas where free movement of european citizens is ensured, as well as in terms of preventing and combating terrorism. the fight against trafficking in firearms should be a priority for the union in the fight against serious and organised international crime. that's why i supported the report.
in writing. ‒ the report is designed to strengthen workers' rights, in particular to guarantee the highest level of protection of health and safety at work. the report welcomes the commission's strategic framework 2014-2020 in this regard, but expects further concrete legal steps, including the adoption of a new directive on musculoskeletal disorders and the revision of the carcinogens directive. i voted for the epp because the epp position takes a balanced and moderate approach: it does not want to introduce new legislation that is not sufficiently well-founded and without jurisdictional studies and to pursue legislation that infringes the competences of the member states. the pp also takes the view that it is not possible to focus on one health problem at a time, but that a new generation of health risks must be taken into account. this includes the treatment of psychosocial disability. so i supported the people's party line in the final vote on the report.
in writing. ‒ the report is about strengthening workers' rights, in particular the highest level of protection of health and safety at work. the report welcomes the commission's strategic framework 2014-2020 in this direction, but expects further concrete and legal steps. i voted for the epp because the epp position takes a balanced and moderate approach: it does not want to introduce new legislation that is not sufficiently well-founded and without jurisdictional studies and to pursue legislation that infringes the competences of the member states. the people's party also takes the view that it is not possible to focus on one health problem at a time, but that a new generation of health risks must be taken into account. this includes the treatment of psychosocial disability, which is an important aspect under the un convention on the rights of persons with disabilities, and is particularly relevant in the case of harassment at work in the existing cxxv. tv. of 2003 on equal treatment and the promotion of equal opportunities in hungary. so i supported the people's party line in the final vote on the report.
in writing. the report aims to strengthen workers' rights, in particular to guarantee the highest level of protection of health and safety at work. the report welcomes the commission's strategic framework 2014-2020 in this regard, but expects further concrete and legal steps, including the adoption of a new directive on musculoskeletal disorders and the revision of the carcinogens directive. i voted for the epp because the epp position takes a balanced and moderate approach: it does not want to introduce new legislation that is not sufficiently well-founded and without jurisdictional studies and to pursue legislation that infringes the competences of the member states. the pp also takes the view that it is not possible to focus on one health problem at a time, but that a new generation of health risks must be taken into account. this includes the treatment of psychosocial disability, which is an important aspect under the un convention on the rights of persons with disabilities, and is particularly relevant in the case of harassment at work in the existing cxxv. tv. of 2003 on equal treatment and the promotion of equal opportunities in hungary. so i supported the people's party line in the final vote on the report.
in writing. ‒ the report is designed to strengthen workers' rights, in particular to guarantee the highest level of protection of health and safety at work. the report welcomes the commission's strategic framework 2014-2020 to this end, but expects further concrete and legal steps, including the adoption of a new directive on musculoskeletal disorders and the revision of the carcinogens directive. i voted for the epp because the epp position takes a balanced and moderate approach: it does not want to introduce new legislation that is not sufficiently well-founded and without jurisdictional studies and to pursue legislation that infringes the competences of the member states. the pp also takes the view that it is not possible to focus on one health problem at a time, but that a new generation of health risks must be taken into account. this includes the treatment of psychosocial disability, which is an important aspect under the un convention on the rights of persons with disabilities, and is particularly relevant in the case of harassment at work in the existing cxxv. tv. of 2003 on equal treatment and the promotion of equal opportunities in hungary. so i supported the people's party line in the final vote on the report.
in writing. ‒ the report is designed to strengthen workers' rights, in particular to guarantee the highest level of protection of health and safety at work. the report welcomes the commission's strategic framework 2014-2020 to this end, but expects further concrete and legal steps, including the adoption of a new directive on musculoskeletal disorders and the revision of the carcinogens directive. i voted for the epp because the epp position takes a balanced and moderate approach: it does not want to introduce new legislation that is not sufficiently well-founded and without jurisdictional studies and to pursue legislation that infringes the competences of the member states. the pp also takes the view that it is not possible to focus on one health problem at a time, but that a new generation of health risks must be taken into account. this includes the treatment of psychosocial disability, which is an important aspect under the un convention on the rights of persons with disabilities, and is particularly relevant in the case of harassment at work in the existing cxxv. tv. of 2003 on equal treatment and the promotion of equal opportunities in hungary. so i supported the people's party line in the final vote on the report.
in writing. ‒ the report is designed to strengthen workers' rights, in particular to guarantee the highest level of protection of health and safety at work. the report welcomes the commission's strategic framework 2014-2020 to this end, but expects further concrete and legal steps, including the adoption of a new directive on musculoskeletal disorders and the revision of the carcinogens directive. i voted for the epp because the epp position takes a balanced and moderate approach: it does not want to introduce new legislation that is not sufficiently well-founded and without jurisdictional studies and to pursue legislation that infringes the competences of the member states. the pp also takes the view that it is not possible to focus on one health problem at a time, but that a new generation of health risks must be taken into account. this includes the treatment of psychosocial disability, which is an important aspect under the un convention on the rights of persons with disabilities, and is particularly relevant in the case of harassment at work in the existing cxxv. tv. of 2003 on equal treatment and the promotion of equal opportunities in hungary. so i supported the people's party line in the final vote on the report.
in writing. ‒ the report is designed to strengthen workers' rights, to ensure the highest level of protection of health and safety at work. the report welcomes the commission's strategic framework 2014-2020 to this end, but expects further concrete and legal steps, including the adoption of a new directive on musculoskeletal disorders and the revision of the carcinogens directive. the european parliament adopted a resolution on the situation in the former yugoslavia on the basis of the conclusions of the european council in brussels on 21 and 22 june. the pp also takes the view that it is not possible to focus on one health problem at a time, but that a new generation of health risks must be taken into account. this includes the treatment of psychosocial disability, which is an important aspect under the un convention on the rights of persons with disabilities. so, in accordance with the hungarian people's party delegation's guidelines, i supported the people's party line in the final vote on the report.
in writing. ‒ the report is about strengthening workers' rights, in particular to guarantee the highest level of health and safety at work. the report welcomes the commission's 2014-2020 strategic framework in this direction, but expects further concrete and legal action. the commission has also adopted a number of measures to improve the quality of life of people with disabilities, including the adoption of a new directive on musculoskeletal disorders and the revision of the carcinogens directive. i voted with the pp because it took a balanced and moderate approach. it does not want to introduce new legislation that is not sufficiently well-founded and without any impact assessment, and to pursue legislation that infringes the competences of the member states. the epp also takes the view that it is not possible to focus on individual health problems, but that a new generation of health risks must be taken into account. this includes the treatment of psychosocial disability, which is important under the un convention on the rights of persons with disabilities. so when the report was voted on, i supported the people's party line.
in writing. ‒ the report is designed to strengthen workers' rights, in particular to guarantee the highest level of protection of health and safety at work. the report welcomes the commission's strategic framework 2014-2020 to this end, but expects further concrete and legal steps, including the adoption of a new directive on musculoskeletal disorders and the revision of the carcinogens directive. i voted for the epp because the epp position takes a balanced and moderate approach: it does not want to introduce new legislation that is not sufficiently well-founded and without jurisdictional studies and to pursue legislation that infringes the competences of the member states. the pp also takes the view that it is not possible to focus on one health problem at a time, but that a new generation of health risks must be taken into account. this includes the treatment of psychosocial disability, which is an important aspect under the un convention on the rights of persons with disabilities, and is particularly relevant in the case of harassment at work in the existing cxxv. tv. of 2003 on equal treatment and the promotion of equal opportunities in hungary. so i supported the people's party line in the final vote on the report.
in writing. the report is to be strongly supported, as the safety and health of workers is a common concern. alarming statistics prove that the quest for profit is still a killer today. it is unacceptable that governments of some countries put their citizens at serious risk simply to further the profits of multinational corporations. it would also help to ensure safety if a uniform regulation were to say that workers should not be employed until they die, but that everyone should be entitled to retire, for example, after 35 to 40 years of employment, regardless of age.
in writing. ‒ more than 4 000 workers die each year in work-related accidents and more than 150 000 die each year from work-related fatal diseases. ambitious policies in the field of health and safety at work have proven economic benefits, including productivity and labour market participation and increased sustainability of social security systems. the report of the employment and social committee argues that, as well as the significant economic costs, occupational accidents and diseases present significant challenges as carriers of many new and emerging risks, and as their management requires legislative and non-legislative initiatives, immediate action at union level is needed and further concrete measures should be complemented by the union strategy on health and safety at work 2014-2020. i supported the motion.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report calling on the commission to take more decisive action to protect workers' health, to reduce new risks of illness and psychological disorders (such as stress and burnout). as the report points out, some four thousand people die each year from work-related accidents, while more than 150,000 people are affected by work-related fatal diseases each year. the commission has already done a good job of identifying risks and challenges to workers, but the report urges further action. i agree, for example, that targets should be set for reducing work-related illnesses and accidents, that workers should be given legal protection regardless of the size of the workplace. i support the development of a national action plan for the necessary asbestos screening and registration and the establishment of common health indicators and definitions in relation to work in order to reduce occupational diseases. i believe that we need to promote common action at eu level in the interests of workers, as this will ensure that people in all member states can do similar work with reduced health risks. unfortunately, with the deepening of the economic crisis, and the irresponsible government policy in hungary, workers' wages have not increased in nominal terms, but health risks have, because employers are often trying to save money in order to preserve their jobs and their profits.
in writing. ‒ more than 4 000 workers die each year in work-related accidents and more than 150 000 die each year from work-related fatal diseases. good health is a fundamental right in europe and, although significant progress has been made over the years in the field of health and safety at work, there are still major risks to the health and safety of workers. in its 2014-2020 eu strategy on safety and health at work, the commission identifies a number of important risks faced by european employers and workers in the field of safety and health at work. that's why i supported the motion.
it's a trick question. - mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. if the interpretation was good, and i think it was, and you rightly called it a disgrace that there is no money for certain of our objectives at european level. i think there's a bigger shame than that. but there was a head of government of a european union member state, a certain viktor orbán from hungary, who found it necessary to say afterwards: "every terrorist is a migrant". and he had a nice phrase: "the quota, the refugee quota, is only for the spread of terrorism throughout europe". other what does your party family think of this? thank you very much.
mr president, mr commissioner, mr minister, and my fellow members of parliament. we are past the valet summit, and the difficult weeks of the migrant crisis itself are now overshadowed, to say the least, by the terrorist attacks in paris, or rather, by the overwhelming ones. i think it is necessary to talk about the lines behind the growing popular movements. i ask you, were we struck by lightning in this sequence of events that we are witnessing, or were we expected? the arab spring experience has been clear about how much democracy can be exported to areas where the conditions are not yet understood. and it's from this failure that the mainstream social theories of western prosperity and the popularity of these theories have led to the current migration. my fellow members of the house of representatives! today we are in a race against time to save schengen. i heard with bad breath that we are starting to talk about mini-schengen as if we had given up on this race in the first place. you can't give up on a race. you have to fight to the end. schengen, free movement is part of european integration, which we can say is felt by every citizen within the european union. this is an achievement that, if it fails, my fellow mps, everything will fall! we must therefore use all means at our disposal to protect this symbol of our union. it is a sad fact for me that the european political elite always defends its dead-end policy by saying that the terrorists, the paris terrorists, are not new immigrants, but second- and third-generation immigrants, and that therefore their policy of getting caught is not dangerous and does not need to be changed. but the point is that the generational narrative is distracting from the fact that muslims who settled in the 1970s had jobs and prosperity, but today's immigrants don't. i'm asking you to reconsider our theory so we don't jeopardize the european union's achievements. (the intervener agrees to answer a question by way of a question mark (article 149 (8) of the rules of procedure).
that's a two-card answer. thank you very much, mr. deputy, for your question. this is not about the passport, mr. deputy, this is about the internal market. the point is that one of the greatest opportunities for the european union is to be able to complete the internal market. there is a technical part to this, and schengen is one of them. if it's just about the passport, i'll be happy to show my passport when i'm in your country. in fact, citizens understand little about the internal market, but they easily understand that there is a schengen. but we agree that we are making our laws to enforce them and we are sitting here to talk about economic growth and job creation as much as possible, and that requires the internal market and schengen.
since the beginning of the uninterrupted flow of migrants from the south and east, european crisis meetings and international meetings have followed one another, including the summits of the imf and the g20. while acknowledging the necessity and implications of these, we must agree with prime minister viktor orbán, who believes that they lead to "nowhere". on the contrary, the migrant crisis is worsening, and it has been accompanied by a threat of terrorism against europe of apocalyptic proportions. who is responsible for this? for the deaths of innocent people in paris, for the escalation of uncontrolled and illegal immigration, for the daily uncertainty and fear, for the impending collapse of europe's borders and the schengen system! our european and national identity, values and interests are being jeopardised by those who, with the demagogy of multiculturalism, openness and solidarity, are trying to protect our borders, who are unwittingly allowing the spread of islamic fundamentalism and who are contributing to the drastic reshaping of europe's ethno-religious map. before it is too late, the union's policies on migration and asylum and on terrorism need to be reviewed and radically changed!
in writing. i am addressing the debate on migration in europe today on the basis of my recent experience in the middle east. recently, i spent days in refugee camps in northern iraq with the papal aid organization church in need. i met with the religious leaders who coordinated the relief efforts, the church organizations. my primary experience is that what is needed is basically peace and local solutions to manage migration. i am convinced that the former colonial powers of europe should not be concerned with economic advantage in this situation. the resources actually available should be focused on investments and aid programmes. we need to focus all our efforts on programs that help people stay home. this is primarily in the interest of refugees, because there is no reason for these ancient communities to migrate thousands of kilometers, exposed to criminal networks, instead of living in their own culture. it's been my very specific experience that we need to help the internally displaced today in two ways. one is providing education, the other is finding jobs. these two areas are clearly in need of immediate help and are also keys to staying put. it's a very serious problem that our decision-makers didn't recognize the need for these steps much earlier. the situation is quite clear: either we help locally according to the above criteria, in a coordinated way, in cooperation with international donors, or the persecuted can no longer endure, leave their homeland and head for europe en masse.
in writing. at the valletta summit, eu leaders worked to tackle the real problems of asylum. the summit focused on the reasons why refugees are forced to leave their homelands. improving cooperation with african countries and better using development resources to improve the situation of people living there can have a significant impact on reducing the number of refugees. it is equally important that we do everything we can to resolve the current armed conflict and prevent new crises. turkey can also be an important partner in improving stability in the middle east region and in addressing the problems of refugees. however, this should not be a blank check: the eu must strictly monitor whether the turkish government is providing adequate care for refugees and is acting in accordance with its international obligations. we must be clear that europe's security now begins far beyond the borders of the union. in an age of global problems, the european union must also become a strong player on the international stage. stronger european cooperation, joint action, effective management of international crises is the way to help prevent mass migration, not the way to build fences, anti-foreigner propaganda and violations of international law.
in writing. i have asked to speak in today's debate as a member of the european union election observation mission to myanmar. based on my experience on the ground, i agree with all those who described the november 8 elections as a calm, well-organized and transparent event. in yangon and bago region, more than a dozen constituencies have been visited to ensure that those entrusted with the conduct of the elections have carried out their duties responsibly and with commitment. the elections were conducted smoothly and efficiently, despite the high turnout. it is also clear that the legal environment, the legal background and the pre-election process left much to be desired. discussions with representatives of civil society organisations, ethnic minorities and the media have highlighted a number of such shortcomings. the most obvious of these, of course, is the fact that a quarter of the seats in the house of representatives automatically went to the military. but on the whole, myanmar, which has been a dictatorship for decades, took a giant step toward democratic settlement on november 8. the indisputable need for further procedural reforms in relation to the elections is overshadowed by the historic fact that the citizens of myanmar have made a dignified and overwhelming vote of confidence in democracy. i am convinced that the european union made the right decision in supporting this peaceful transition process by organising an election observation mission.
mr president, i would like to thank the commissioner for his very optimistic summary of political developments in georgia. i wish, commissioner, you were fully justified in your assessment of what has happened lately. georgia has made tremendous progress since it regained its independence and, as my colleague mr štětina rightfully pointed out, going peacefully through both a constitutional change and a change of government is not a small feat. many of our countries could be proud of that as well. having said that, i need to point out that political stability is never a given – never something which we can take for granted. you should actively work on achieving political stability at all times, and this includes respecting the political opposition as a legitimate rival, which is a sine qua non for democratic politics. likewise, the political opposition is required to understand and work for a peaceful change in government within the bounds of democratic politics. one point i would like to make, the last poll published on 13 october showed that actually there is 12% support for openly pro-russian parties in georgia. that is the danger which we need to avoid.
i would like to add a few words to the agricultural chapter of the court's report, partly because it is rare for the european parliament to have a good word to say about the experts who carried out the court's audit and about the european commission itself, which was responsible for implementing the expenditure. the commission notes that the commission has not provided any evidence that the measure is imputable to the state. despite this, the rate of miscalculation has been reduced to an all-time low of around 2%. i think that these results really mean that the european institutional system can work in the most difficult areas. however, it is undeniable that we are approaching the time of the six-monthly review, and it will be appropriate to say a few words about the content of the various publications. what is certain is that in the agricultural sector, the money that european taxpayers spend should really go to farmers, not be passed on. thank you so much for the opportunity.
i have seven motions for resolutions to wind up this debate. i'll close this discussion. the vote will take place on thursday 26 november 2015. the following shall be added to the list of the member states:
the following agenda item is added to the agenda of the meeting:
i have seven motions for resolutions to wind up this debate. i'll close this discussion. the vote will take place on thursday 26 november 2015.
the next item is: the commission shall be assisted by the committee on budgetary control.
i adjourn the meeting until 12:00.
in writing. ‒ the motion for a resolution calls for the continuation of the doha agenda, which will be discussed at the ministerial meeting in kenya from 15 to 18 december 2015. efforts to liberalize trade and money flows within the wto are primarily in the interests of advanced industrial countries, and there too primarily in the interests of multinational corporations. instead of globalisation, which is about exploiting cheap labour for the benefit of the many, we should adopt the principle that each country should produce for itself what it needs, within the limits of its real capacity. so production for man and not man for production. the focus should be on sustainable development and increasing the population retention capacity of developing countries. in this regard, it is worth quoting perhaps the most respected economist of all, john maynard keynes: "financial calculations may show it to be advantageous to invest my savings in those parts of the world where the return on capital, or interest, is highest. but more and more experience suggests that the distance between the owner and the area of operation is bad for the relationships between people, it is likely, or rather certain, to lead to tensions and hostility in the long run, which invalidates the financial calculations. on these grounds, i rejected the motion for a resolution.
in writing. ‒ the doha round, launched in 2001, aims to create new trade opportunities, strengthen multilateral trade rules and address current imbalances in the trading system, which is reflected in the focus of the negotiations on the needs and interests of developing countries, and in particular the least developed countries. in my view, these objectives stem from the conviction that a multilateral system based on fairer and more equitable rules can contribute to the development of fair and free trade and poverty reduction, which are essential for the economic development of all continents. the above aspects should be given priority. these agreements are in line with wto requirements, are based on commonly agreed rules and create the conditions for a possible future multilateral framework. i therefore consider it important to reaffirm our full commitment to multilateralism with lasting value and to advocate a trade agenda based on free and fair trade in the interests of all parties and with development at its core.
in writing. the wto is designed to serve the interests of advanced industrial countries, including multinational companies, rather than to catch up with participating less developed countries. this is unsupportable. a wonderful birdlife developed on one of the galapagos islands until a ship was sent to bring in some snakes. the island was soon overrun with reptiles, and the birds had disappeared. then the snakes ate each other. then all animal life died out. if we choose to see birds chirping instead of dead snakes, then instead of globalization, the exploitation of cheap labor for the benefit of the multinationals, we should follow the principle that each country should produce for itself as much as it needs, as far as possible. that is, production for man and not man for production. foreign trade, and in particular international capital flows, should be kept to a minimum. and all of this is not about lending to developing countries, it's about giving them technology.
in writing. ‒ the international trade committee proposed the adoption of a parliamentary resolution ahead of the 10th wto ministerial conference to be held in kenya from 15 to 18 december 2015. the proposed resolution reaffirms the european parliament's full commitment to multilateralism and to free and fair trade, which serves the interests of all parties and is centred on development. it is in favour of trade liberalisation, which should be complemented by appropriate macroeconomic and microeconomic measures and accompanying policies including administrative simplification, education and training, institutional reforms and social policies, in order to fully exploit the benefits of trade reforms and to better distribute them, effectively offsetting any negative effects. i supported the motion.
in writing. ‒ this decision was adopted weeks before the 10th wto ministerial conference (kenya, 15-18 december 2015). the european parliament attaches particular importance to taking into account the specific needs of low-income developing countries (ldcs), which it considers necessary to achieve a clear definition of the concepts of low-income developing countries and emerging economies. this is particularly important for china, as in this sense china is still considered a developing country without any further distinction being possible. the european parliament supports the structural reform of the wto in order to better ensure an open, fair and non-discriminatory system that takes due account of the needs of the different economic actors (smes, micro-enterprises, innovative start-ups). the decision encourages wto members to make essential progress in nairobi towards the proper implementation of the doha round and calls on wto members to swiftly ratify and implement the trade facilitation agreement (tfa).
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution on the current state of the doha development agenda, which calls for a system based on fair and free trade, in the interests of all parties. i also believe that it is important to put the interests of low-income developing countries and least developed countries at the centre of the negotiations. i also welcomed and supported the recommendation in the motion to give more attention to smes, micro-enterprises and innovative start-ups in order to ensure a more efficient trading system. an essential element of the proposal is that it calls for a further strengthening of the role of the european parliament. it is important that parliament remains closely involved in the preparation of the ministerial conference and that it is kept informed and consulted, if necessary, during the ministerial conference. the doha development agenda, which began 14 years ago, will be marked by the ministerial conference in nairobi in december, and it is essential that the round ends with the development mandate fulfilled.
in writing. ‒ in order to ensure the close and final conclusion of the doha development round and to facilitate the full participation of the least developed countries in world trade, the union should continue to play a leading role in promoting tangible progress on the ongoing wto negotiations. the resolution calls on the commission and the council to ensure that parliament remains closely involved in the preparations for the 10th ministerial conference and that it is kept informed and consulted as necessary during the 10th ministerial conference. i voted in favor of the motion.
in writing. ‒ i welcome the fact that ecuador's accession to the trade agreement with colombia and peru is another decisive step towards an alliance with like-minded, important and rapidly developing countries in a region that is increasingly turning towards asia and the pacific. it is also welcome that the ecuadorian government has invested usd 40.8 billion in the social sector over the last eight years - including in access to education, health care and social security - through specific programmes targeting the most vulnerable groups, such as children, the elderly and people with disabilities. in this context, i consider it important to urge the government of ecuador to take similar measures based on the action plans submitted by colombia and peru, as this provides an opportunity to improve the general living conditions of citizens, including human and labour rights, and the environment.
in writing. i cannot support the eu's trade policy towards developing countries, as there is clear evidence that with liberalised trade and capital flows, less developed countries are not able to catch up. the motion for a resolution concerns the accession of ecuador to the trade agreement previously concluded by the union with peru and colombia. the commission has also received comments from the ecuadorian authorities, which have not provided any information on the measures taken by the government of ecuador to prevent the introduction of the new product. such agreements unilaterally serve the interests of multinational corporations, thus making the developing countries even more vulnerable to them than they are now. that would mean that the resolution should be rejected, but i cannot overrule the decision of a sovereign country, so i have decided to abstain.
in writing. ‒ the eu concluded trade agreements with colombia and peru on 17 july 2014. the eu and ecuador have successfully concluded negotiations to accede to the agreement and initialled the protocol allowing ecuador to establish preferential trade relations with the eu by joining neighbouring colombia and peru on 12 december 2014. the international trade committee has proposed the adoption of a parliamentary resolution welcoming the conclusion of the negotiations, highlighting in particular the $40.8 billion invested by the ecuadorian government in the social sector over the last eight years, which has launched specific programmes targeting the most vulnerable groups such as children, the elderly and people with disabilities. it recommends that the strong growth of the ecuadorian economy over the past few years be recognised as having directly reduced poverty - especially extreme forms of poverty - and inequality, and as having increased the middle class. (according to the latest world bank data, between 2006 and 2014, poverty in ecuador decreased from 37.6% to 22.5%, and extreme poverty from 16.9% to 7.7%.) i supported the motion.
in writing. ‒ ecuador's accession to the trade agreement with colombia and peru is another decisive step towards an alliance with like-minded, important and rapidly developing countries in a region that is increasingly turning towards asia and the pacific. the text of the protocol of accession to the trade agreement reflects the aspirations of both the eu and ecuador. i voted in favor of the motion.
in writing. ‒ in line with the european people's party line, i voted in favour of the adoption of the political resolution on the eu animal welfare strategy. i do not think it is timely at all to talk about animal welfare issues in the current situation, when the eu is facing huge challenges such as the fight against migration and terrorism. animal welfare standards in the union are the most advanced and strictest in the world, and i therefore do not support any attempt to tighten standards or to introduce new standards. instead, the rules need to be simplified. the only reason for my support is that the report contains a large number of proposals to preserve the competitiveness of eu livestock farmers. on the one hand, we must require that farmers from non-eu countries also meet the same animal welfare standards as those in the eu, otherwise their products will not be allowed into the union. on the other hand, the cap must continue to receive an adequate budget to enable farmers to comply with strict agricultural and livestock standards. third, we need to significantly strengthen farmers' bargaining power in the food supply chain.
in writing. ‒ i believe that european citizens have a strong interest in animal welfare and want to be able to make informed decisions as consumers. this information is a fundamental right of consumers within the union. union legislation on animal welfare contributes to a level playing field within the union and thus to the proper functioning of the internal market. we also know that animal welfare is closely linked to animal and public health. for these reasons, i support the report in that it urges the commission to implement without delay the outstanding issues of the eu strategy for the protection and welfare of animals (20122015) and urges the commission to ensure that all categories of animals commercial, wild, research, pet and aquatic are covered by any harmonisation of the animal welfare legislative framework. i consider it important to also call on the commission to use the new eu animal welfare reference centres to assist in the implementation of existing rules by disseminating information and sharing best practices, providing training to competent authorities and enforcing the application of approved animal welfare indicators. animal welfare is one of the engines of economic development.
in writing. ‒ the alde, efdd, epp, gue/ngl, s&d and ecr groups tabled a motion for a resolution on this subject, and the alde, epp, s&d and ecr groups agreed on a joint compromise proposal. i supported this compromise motion.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the joint resolution because i believe that animal welfare measures are important and that their continuity should be ensured. this is because the eu-wide animal welfare strategy also contributes to the proper functioning of the internal market. i believe that the strategy should give priority to innovation, education and the creation of coherence between the different foundations. i also think it is important to put more emphasis on consumer information and transparency, because we need to know whether producers are complying with animal welfare rules when they buy food. however, i would point out that care must be taken to ensure that these rules do not become an obstacle to the functioning of the single market. animal welfare standards are already high in the eu, which helps to reduce the negative effects of intensive animal husbandry. it is difficult to raise this high level any further, and let us not forget that most farm animals would not survive in a domesticated, natural environment. instead, countries outside the eu should be encouraged to adopt our best practices. i agree that the commission should remove the consequences from the 2012-2015 strategy and integrate them into the 2016-2020 strategy to be developed in a way that does not create administrative burdens and price increases for producers or consumers.
in writing. ‒ animal welfare should be further improved in line with current scientific knowledge, taking into account the efficiency and competitiveness of livestock farming. the definition of good animal husbandry would facilitate the development of uniform animal welfare standards throughout the union. i voted in favor of the motion.
in writing. ‒ the un estimates that 1 billion children live in conflict-affected areas, 250 million of them under the age of 5, and are deprived of their fundamental right to education. the protracted crises put some 65 million children aged 3 to 15 at risk of dropping out of school, and in crisis-affected countries, some 37 million children are out of school, but should be in primary school or lower secondary school depending on their age. add to this the estimated 175 million children who are affected by natural disasters each year. education in emergencies or uncertainty is a specific area where humanitarian and development actors need to work closely together to coordinate relief, recovery and development. i agree that the commission should develop mechanisms for effective responses in its own activities and those of its partners and participate in the work of the international platform to develop concrete tools for education in emergencies in the context of the 2016 humanitarian summit. i therefore voted in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ today, some 65 million children live in crisis areas where, due to the situation, they do not have access to adequate education, as the sector is typically underfunded in these regions. the proposal aims to encourage member states to support the european commission's proposal to increase the proportion of eu humanitarian aid spent on education to 4%. the proposal also calls on member states to help integrate refugee children they have taken in into their national education systems. quality education should be a priority in crisis and disaster-affected areas, as it can be the key to the post-crisis recovery and stabilisation process in the longer term. strengthening education can also play a significant role in preventing children from becoming victims of radicalisation, which can lead them to become involved in terrorist groups and militaries. access to adequate education can also be an important tool in the fight against poverty. in accordance with the above objectives, and following the line of the people's party, i voted in favour of the adoption of the report.
in writing. today, some 65 million children live in crisis areas where, due to the situation, they do not have access to adequate education, as the sector is typically underfunded in these regions. the proposal aims to encourage member states to support the european commission's proposal to increase the proportion of eu humanitarian aid spent on education to 4%. the proposal also calls on member states to help integrate refugee children they have taken in into their national education systems. quality education should be a priority in crisis and disaster-affected areas, as it can be the key to the post-crisis recovery and stabilisation process in the longer term. strengthening education can also play a significant role in preventing children from becoming victims of radicalisation, which can lead them to become involved in terrorist groups and militaries. access to adequate education can also be an important tool in the fight against poverty. in accordance with the above objectives, and following the line of the people's party, i voted in favour of the adoption of the report.
in writing. ‒ today, some 65 million children live in crisis areas where they do not have access to adequate education because of the situation, as the sector is typically underfunded in these regions. the proposal aims to encourage member states to support the european commission's proposal to increase the proportion of eu humanitarian aid spent on education to 4%. the proposal also calls on member states to help integrate refugee children they have taken in into their national education systems. quality education should be a priority in crisis and disaster-affected areas, as it can be the key to the post-crisis recovery and stabilisation process in the longer term. strengthening education can also play a significant role in preventing children from becoming victims of radicalisation, which can lead them to become involved in terrorist groups and militaries. access to adequate education can also be an important tool in the fight against poverty. in accordance with the above objectives, and following the line of the people's party, i voted in favour of the adoption of the report.
in writing. ‒ today, some 65 million children live in crisis areas where they do not have access to adequate education because of the situation, as the sector is typically underfunded in these regions. the proposal aims to encourage member states to support the european commission's proposal to increase the proportion of eu humanitarian aid spent on education to 4%. the proposal also calls on member states to help integrate refugee children they have taken in into their national education systems. quality education should be a priority in crisis and disaster-affected areas, as it can be the key to the post-crisis recovery and stabilisation process in the longer term. strengthening education can also play a significant role in preventing children from becoming victims of radicalisation, which can lead them to become involved in terrorist groups and militaries. access to adequate education can also be an important tool in the fight against poverty. in accordance with the above objectives, and following the line of the people's party, i voted in favour of the adoption of the report.
in writing. ‒ the european parliament's committee on development has tabled a motion for a parliamentary resolution on the exercise of the fundamental right to education of 1 billion children living in conflict-affected areas and 10 million children who have been displaced outside their country and 19 million children who have been forced to leave their homes within their country. the draft urges the international community to consider education as a central element of humanitarian assistance, which can act as a catalyst to increase the effectiveness of the overall response and contribute to improving the situation of the affected population in the medium and long term. i fully agree with the conclusions of the draft, and i was happy to support it.
in writing. ‒ today, some 65 million children live in crisis areas where they do not have access to adequate education because of the situation, as the sector is typically underfunded in these regions. the proposal aims to encourage member states to support the european commission's proposal to increase the proportion of eu humanitarian aid spent on education to 4%. the proposal also calls on member states to help integrate refugee children they have taken in into their national education systems. quality education should be a priority in crisis and disaster-affected areas, as it can be the key to the post-crisis recovery and stabilisation process in the longer term. strengthening education can also play a significant role in preventing children from becoming victims of radicalisation, which can lead them to become involved in terrorist groups and militaries. access to adequate education can also be an important tool in the fight against poverty. in accordance with the above objectives, and following the line of the people's party, i voted in favour of the adoption of the report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the motion because the un estimates that 1 billion children live in conflict-affected areas, 250 million of them under the age of 5. many are denied their basic right to education. the report highlights that there are nearly 10 million refugee children and some 19 million children worldwide who have been displaced by conflict within their own country. that is why i believe that education should be a priority and should not be treated as a humanitarian issue but as an area of development cooperation. education is a fundamental right which all children have, regardless of the ethnic origin, nationality and social, migration or residence status of their parents. so it's not just aid that's needed, but it has to be linked to restoration and development! i agree that education is the foundation of responsible citizenship, can transform a society and contribute to social, economic, political and gender equality, and is an important factor in the social, cultural and professional emancipation of girls and women and in the prevention of violence against women and girls. i support the call for member states to develop specific plans for the reception of unaccompanied children and single mothers raising their children.
in writing. ‒ the un estimates that 1 billion children live in conflict-affected areas, 250 million of them under the age of 5, and are deprived of their fundamental right to education. it is estimated that some 65 million children aged 3 to 15 are at risk of being cut off from schooling due to emergencies and protracted crises, and that some 37 million children in crisis-affected countries are out of school but should be in primary school or lower secondary school depending on their age. about half of all out-of-school children in the world live in conflict-affected areas. i voted in favor of the motion.
in writing. ‒ despite the reformed cohesion policy for the financial planning period 2014-2020, which addresses simplification methods, the application, management, reporting and control of the european structural and investment funds continue to be difficult for both beneficiaries and managing authorities, especially those with lower administrative and financial capacity. the current over-regulation, including the process of transposition of rules into national law, causes delays and generates longer time-outs and indirect costs for potential beneficiaries requiring union funds, thereby reducing the investment impact of union funding and creating obstacles for beneficiaries, citizens and businesses, in particular small and medium-sized enterprises in the union. complex procedures can impose a significant burden on beneficiaries, in particular small and medium-sized enterprises, non-governmental organisations and municipalities that need union funding. as these organisations generally lack the financial and human resources and expertise to successfully apply for and manage eu grants, i consider it necessary to further simplify the procedure and therefore voted in favour of the adoption of the report.
in writing. ‒ while considerable progress has been made in the area of cohesion policy to reduce administrative burdens and simplify, the administrative burden on final beneficiaries of the european structural and investment funds is still very high. this presents a particular challenge for smes, ngos and local authorities, which are in dire need of eu funding but do not have the financial and human resources to successfully apply and manage the funds received. in light of this, further simplification is essential for the efficient use of resources. avoid frequent changes in rules, standardise procedures, simplify the language used, support the introduction and dissemination of e-cohesion and one-stop-shop. the motion for a resolution on simplifying and making cohesion policy more performance-oriented for the period 2014-2020 contains a number of useful ideas on this subject, which is why i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution in the plenary vote in strasbourg on 26 november.
in writing. in the area of cohesion policy, considerable progress has already been made in reducing administrative burdens and simplifying procedures, but the administrative burden on final beneficiaries of the european structural and investment funds is still very high. this presents a particular challenge for smes, ngos and local authorities, which are in dire need of eu funding but do not have the financial and human resources to successfully apply and manage the funds received. in light of this, further simplification is essential for the efficient use of resources. avoid frequent changes in rules, standardise procedures, simplify the language used, support the introduction and dissemination of e-cohesion and one-stop-shop. the motion for a resolution on simplifying and making cohesion policy more performance-oriented for the period 2014-2020 contains a number of useful ideas on this subject, which is why i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution in the plenary vote in strasbourg on 26 november.
in writing. ‒ while considerable progress has been made in the area of cohesion policy to reduce administrative burdens and simplify, the administrative burden on final beneficiaries of the european structural and investment funds is still very high. this presents a particular challenge for smes, ngos and local authorities, which are in dire need of eu funding but do not have the financial and human resources to successfully apply and manage the funds received. in light of this, further simplification is essential for the efficient use of resources. avoid frequent changes in rules, standardise procedures, simplify the language used, support the introduction and dissemination of e-cohesion and one-stop-shop. the motion for a resolution on simplifying and making cohesion policy more performance-oriented for the period 2014-2020 contains a number of useful ideas on this subject, which is why i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution in the plenary vote in strasbourg on 26 november.
in writing. ‒ the motion for a resolution on simplifying cohesion policy for the period 2014-2020 contains a number of useful ideas. that's why i voted for it. smes, ngos and local authorities are in dire need of eu funding but lack the financial and human resources to successfully apply and manage the funds they receive. in light of this, further simplification is essential for the efficient use of resources. avoid frequent changes in rules, standardise procedures, simplify the language used, support the introduction and dissemination of e-cohesion and one-stop-shop.
in writing. ‒ in the area of cohesion policy, considerable progress has already been made in reducing administrative burdens and simplifying procedures. however, the administrative burden on the final beneficiaries of the european structural and investment funds is still very significant. this presents a major challenge, in particular, for smes, non-governmental organisations and local authorities. these organisations and institutions are known to be in dire need of eu funding, but lack the financial and human resources to successfully apply and manage the funds they receive. in light of this, further simplification is essential for the efficient use of resources. avoid frequent changes in rules, standardise procedures, simplify the language used, support the introduction and dissemination of e-cohesion and one-stop-shop. the motion for a resolution on simplifying and making cohesion policy more performance-oriented for the period 2014-2020 contains a number of useful ideas on this subject, which is why i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution in the plenary vote in strasbourg on 26 november.
in writing. ‒ while considerable progress has been made in the area of cohesion policy to reduce administrative burdens and simplify, the administrative burden on final beneficiaries of the european structural and investment funds is still very high. this presents a particular challenge for smes, ngos and local authorities, which are in dire need of eu funding but do not have the financial and human resources to successfully apply and manage the funds they receive. in light of this, further simplification is essential for the efficient use of resources. avoid frequent changes in rules, standardise procedures, simplify the language used, support the introduction and dissemination of e-cohesion and one-stop-shop. the motion for a resolution on simplifying and making cohesion policy more performance-oriented for the period 2014-2020 contains a number of useful ideas on this subject, which is why i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution in the plenary vote in strasbourg on 26 november.
in writing. ‒ the committee on regional development has tabled a motion for a resolution calling for the simplification of cohesion policy. it points out that the application, management, reporting and control of the esi funds continue to present difficulties for both beneficiaries and managing authorities. notes that the current over-regulation, including the process of transposition of the rules into national law, causes delays and that the complex procedures can impose a significant burden on beneficiaries; in view of this, it recommends that the commission urgently take appropriate action. i voted for the motion.
in writing. ‒ while considerable progress has been made in the area of cohesion policy to reduce administrative burdens and simplify, the administrative burden on final beneficiaries of the european structural and investment funds is still very high. this presents a particular challenge for smes, ngos and local authorities, which are in dire need of eu funding but do not have the financial and human resources to successfully apply and manage the funds received. in light of this, further simplification is essential for the efficient use of resources. avoid frequent changes in rules, standardise procedures, simplify the language used, support the introduction and dissemination of e-cohesion and one-stop-shop.
in writing. ‒ the eu institutions have made significant progress towards simplifying the multiannual financial framework for the period 2014-2020. however, i agree with the proposal that despite the simplification, the application, management, reporting and control of the esi funds remain a challenge for both beneficiaries and managing authorities, especially those with lower administrative and financial capacity. so further simplification is definitely going to be needed. i support the commission's introduction of detailed simplification guidelines to ensure that member states and their regions are aware of their responsibilities in relation to public procurement procedures, the selection of project proposals and the elimination or at least reduction of administrative burdens and over-regulation at national and local level in the course of monitoring and control activities. i voted in favour of the motion precisely because i am afraid that the situation created by the simplification changes will be a hotbed of fraud and corruption in some member states.
in writing. ‒ the commission should introduce detailed simplification guidelines to ensure that member states and their regions are aware of their responsibilities to eliminate or at least reduce administrative burdens and over-regulation at national and local level in the course of public procurement procedures, the selection of project proposals and monitoring and control activities. i voted in favor of the motion.
i'm not going to let you do this. you don't shout and you don't stand up. i told you what the problem was. i was going over the list, so i called the deputy in the wrong order. you have no right to shout like that, i apologized for that. you probably didn't notice, and mr. brok is next to representative vilimsky. i mean, it's only right that i gave him the floor. although it was an off-the-record comment and i have no reason to explain it to you, but in order to avoid you yelling and this happening again, i thought it was important.
it's a two-card draw. thank you very much, madam president, for this opportunity. i am also very happy to ask mr brok in person, as he is one of the most experienced foreign policy-makers in the european parliament. i'm sure mr. brok has seen countless cases where, due to the negligence of one of the parties, an agreement has not been implemented as it should have been. if the eu does not provide the three billion euros it promised, and the turks say they will continue to release refugees, what guarantees do you see for control or prevention? thank you very much.
i'll close this discussion. the next item is: declaration by the commission decision on the circular economy package adopted written declarations (art. 162)
in writing. - mr president, i have to go. refugees are not coming to europe because germany or chancellor merkel invited them, as politicians who call themselves europeans often claim. refugees come because they don't want their children to be victims of the daily bombings. refugees come to europe not to take our jobs or to disrespect our culture, but to save their loved ones from being slaughtered by the islamic state. they come to europe so that their children can go to school, so that sick people can go to the doctor, they want exactly what we want for our children. we're talking about people, not profiteers, who germany invited to europe. at the eu summit on sunday, the eu and turkey managed to reach an agreement to spend €3 billion to improve the living conditions of refugees. we provide them with education, proper health care, decent living conditions in turkey. not only is this morally right, but it's also the key to solving the refugee crisis. unfortunately, today the hungarian prime minister is one of the biggest obstacles to the handling of the refugee crisis, to the development of a common eu refugee policy. by rejecting the quota system, he is endangering the security of europeans, including hungarians, and the security of a europe without borders. we must put an end to the age of selfish, one-way policies and replace them with european solutions, with a common european border guard.
the next item is the commission statement decision on the circular economy package (2015/2927 ((rsp)).
it's a two-card draw. thank you very much for the opportunity, madam president. the honourable member mentioned two important points: our relationship with green industries and the use of european money in this context. there are cases where the circular economy can do more harm than good. i'll give you an example: the recycling of used tires. it is very often financed by the european union and it leads to pollution that is difficult to tolerate. how would you think we could prevent that?
in writing. - mr president, i have to go. after a proposal by the european commission was withdrawn a year ago, the long-awaited european action plan to promote a circular economy was finally published today. without analysing the proposal which was made public only a few hours ago in detail, i would certainly welcome the new approach of the committee on the basis of the preliminary information. the circular economy is not just about waste management. the circular economy is about sustainability, which is based primarily on the smart use of raw materials, the proper design of products and the precise definition of the tasks of operators. in agreement with the teaching of pope francis i, i declare that without a break from our current wasteful consumption habits, our planet will be unable to survive. by moving to a circular economy, we can put behind us the wasteful habits of 'buy-make-consume-throw-away' of production and consumption, while creating new business models and jobs in europe. it is important, however, that we take into account the different economic capacities and starting points of the member states in our work. the new targets should be achievable and should promote a change in the approach to sustainability rather than an increase in non-compliance. i am pleased that the european commission's action plan is also aimed at tackling food waste. european citizens waste some 90 million tonnes of food a year. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment is a very important one.
in writing. the circular economy package presented today, which is said to be more ambitious than the previous one, is deeply disappointing. the juncker commission has delayed the deadline for presenting the package for obvious reasons, it has convinced us all that it is all for the good of the cause, and then it has presented a watered-down proposal without any specifics, and what has been left in it by chance has been completely weakened. vice president timmermans has betrayed our trust! as rapporteur for the circular economy own-initiative report to the itre committee, i consider it impossible to accept this proposal. europe needs a comprehensive economy with legally binding elements, based on the rethinking of production and other economic processes, the minimisation and recycling of waste, and the prevention of wasteful use of resources. the european parliament's report, which was voted in july, reflects exactly this message. the eu's member states can only remain competitive with a sustainable resource policy. the weakness of the current proposal is not only disappointing, but outrageous, that we have wasted a whole year waiting for this. last year we accepted the commission's explanation in the hope that the new package would indeed close the loop and make the whole economic cycle more sustainable, but let's be honest: without legislative proposals on the production cycle (e.g. a resource efficiency target or the integration of resource use indicators into the european semester) the new package is unacceptable and unsuitable to meet the stated objectives.
on behalf of the ppe group.– madam president, i wish to congratulate the co-rapporteurs for their excellent work, and let me commend the work that frontex is doing, with its highly qualified staff, in particular the support it provides to member states at the eu’s external borders in coordinating the mass influx of migrants during the current immigration crisis. the work done by frontex should not be underestimated. we should highlight the proactive approach to safeguarding human rights and the measures taken by frontex with regard to the complaints mechanism. however, we have to acknowledge that the disciplinary measures against national law-enforcement officers participating in frontex operations remain exclusively under member state competence and that frontex has no competence in initiating disciplinary measures against other persons, apart from its personnel, since it has only a coordination function. i wish to reiterate that frontex is one of our best agencies, and the people who work for frontex are of the highest integrity. therefore, the member states and the commission should provide the necessary additional resources that it needs to function.
thank you very much for this opportunity, madam president. i think that the majority of this parliament does think that special attention should be paid to the way in which the staff of frontex, the border guard agencies, the european border guard agencies, deal with and respect human rights. but these recent experiences and recommendations might be worth bringing to the attention of some member states, because there are many authorities in member states - i can mention one in particular: the hungarian authorities - to put it mildly - are treating refugees very inhumanely. they are fed like animals, they are beaten and slaughtered, and the immediate expulsion is the consequence of every single refugee entering hungary, and these very often have tragic consequences. so when a country criminalizes, and hungary is unfortunately like that, when it criminalizes refugees, when it beats and cuts them by the hungarian authorities, i don't think that's because it doesn't deserve further attention. thank you very much.
in writing. over 70% of the european union's population lives in cities, which account for around 85% of the eu's gdp. by 2050, the population ratio is expected to rise from 70% to over 80%. according to eurobarometer surveys, eu citizens are seriously concerned about the problems arising from the growth of urban transport, such as congestion, air quality deterioration, and increased accidents. the european structural and investment funds, and in particular the european regional development fund, can provide an effective response to these citizens' concerns, as these funds can make a decisive contribution to the sustainability of urban transport, which is of great importance for improving the urban environment and the quality of life of citizens living in cities. one of the thematic objectives of the 2014-2020 cohesion policy is to support sustainable transport and infrastructure. an important element of this is efficient, affordable and safe public transport, the promotion and expansion of which also generates jobs. the union's cohesion policy and the european structural and investment funds can provide effective responses to the challenges of sustainable urban development and smart transport. i think it is important to take advantage of the opportunities offered by cohesion policy in the field of urban mobility.
it's a two-card draw. thank you very much for this opportunity, mr. president. i'm not going to argue with the congressman that a lot of things didn't work out the way we planned in 2015. but you say there is no development without peace. i think what this year has shown is that without development, there is no peace. in short, europe finally has, how to say, the opportunity to make foreign policy through development. would you not agree?
in writing. the pursuit of gender balance is an important objective. however, i would like to draw attention to just one more aspect of my speech, namely that i strongly believe that this effort should not be limited to the non-executive directors of listed companies and should never be emphasised in a one-sided way, focusing exclusively on one gender, because this could generate counterproductive results despite the positive objective. we must also be particularly careful in this area to ensure that our steps towards guaranteeing equality do not trigger negative processes that neutralise the positive objectives or, even worse, that produce negative processes that are contrary to the objectives sought to be achieved.
on behalf of the s&d group. thank you, mr president. the group of the party of european socialists and democrats stands firmly behind the fundamental values of the european union. these basic values are the glue that holds the union together. since 2010, the hungarian government has been flouting european laws, values, and has no regard for other member states, the commission, or anyone else. but what we are debating tonight is not simply a hungarian issue, it is a european issue. the illiberal, anti-eu, far-right politics based on national self-interest is no longer just a threat to hungary, but has also taken root in other member states. the hungarian government is deliberately and systematically weakening the european union with its policy. and his party family, the european people's party, is tolerating this without a word. and we know that this debate is about the future of the european union. the hungarian prime minister today found it appropriate to say that the migration crisis is the product of human traffickers, a team of paid human rights defenders and eu leaders, who are creating this refugee crisis. i ask whether there is anyone in the commission, or indeed in the people's party, who can say with a calm heart that this crude and toxic politicisation does not endanger the whole of the union. i can't believe this. madam commissioner, you have read a long list, but let me say that i have the impression that the commission lacks the courage, the political courage, to face the facts. i'd love to be proven wrong. thank you, thank you.
mr. president, thank you for your time. the situation in hungary is again on the european parliament's agenda. if we ask the question of whether the rule of law and democracy should be improved in hungary, the answer is yes. i mention two areas, one of increasingly open corruption, and the other of severe imbalances in media relations. but this is not the only country where this happens. why is it that hungary is the one against whom they want to initiate the procedure that would even involve suspending the right to vote? the answer is simple: because the hungarian government, with the support of a large majority of the parliament and the population, has implemented an immigration policy that is different from what the commission represents here and the majority of the parliament, but which is effective. it has protected the borders of its own sovereign and, with it, the borders of the schengen area. and yes, he thinks the quota system is wrong because immigration should not be distributed, immigration should be prevented. should there be a single common european migration policy? i should. but it should be effective. and to do that, you have to face the fact that this influx of organized immigrants is part of a war. and by the way, let me add: just because a country, its people, don't welcome immigrants with signs that say "refugee welcome", doesn't make it xenophobic. thank you, thank you.
thank you, mr president. my fellow members of parliament! we have said many times that the debate on the democratic situation in hungary is not primarily about hungary, but about europe. whether this integration that the founding fathers dreamed of is a simple economic cooperation, or a community of values with shared moral standards, with expectations of the rule of law that it forces its members to uphold. the commission's inaction and delay in dealing with the hungarian government's consistent and systematic violation of these common values reinforces those who willingly ignore these values across europe. people like viktor orbán who see the eu as nothing more than a dumb-headed cow. for whom the common europe is nothing more than a scapegoat on whose back they can cling politically. but the sight of helplessness makes this example appealing. those who delay now will reap the whirlwind. those who don't act now will be weak to act later. it's going to be late, my fellow members.
thank you for the opportunity, mr. president. listening to this debate, i was a little shocked, because after all, the subject itself was how the commission assesses the situation in hungary, and most speakers did raise the issue of refugees. it is true that many hundreds of thousands of refugees have suffered in recent months because of the various measures taken by the hungarian government, but as a hungarian representative, my main concern is that millions of hungarian people have been suffering for years. and i just want to say three things very quickly. can you imagine an international press group, a film crew being thrown out of the hungarian parliament at a press conference of the prime minister and the secretary general of nato because they were not specifically invited to attend? or that in hungary, contracts from european sources can only be obtained if someone is a relative of the prime minister, or at least forms a consortium in which a relative of the prime minister must be present? ladies and gentlemen! this is not viktor orbán's world anymore, this is orwell's world.
in writing. as a proud hungarian and a european democrat, i will never support the introduction of any sanctions against hungary for the functioning of the current government, which violates the interests of the hungarian nation. viktor orbán is not equal to the hungarian nation. but there are some things that cannot be left without retort. in hungary, almost all eu funds used from the common fund are used to finance the government-related clients. and without consequence. let me quote briefly from the previous european parliament election programme of the fidesz people's party. it states: 'one of the european union's current weaknesses is that it has difficulty in upholding the values and principles it claims to uphold (...) the reason for this is mainly that the eu institutions are afraid to interfere in the internal affairs of governments. at the same time, fidesz is convinced that the implementation of our common values and principles cannot be put on the back burner. the european union must therefore be equipped with the means to encourage its members to stand up for values and uphold fundamental principles; without this there is no strong europe (...) it is an objection to expect the union to force the governments of the member states to follow the rules, but we are reluctant to give it powers that might undermine our sovereignty. fides was right, even if today he says the opposite. it's time to do something about it before it's too late.
mr president, control-free or check-free travel within the frontiers of the schengen area is a basic principle and one of the greatest achievements of the european union, although recent tragic events have indeed put schengen to the test. however, the question of closing european borders was raised well before the paris terrorist attacks by many member states in their inadequate attempts to deal with the flow of refugees. this was not the case in belgium, yet passengers from hungary, when arriving at brussels charleroi airport, are treated as third-country citizens. their travel documents are checked at the official checkpoints, while not all other european citizens have to undergo such monitoring. these are not random but rather systematic checks aimed at people coming from hungary. while we must do our best in order to provide security for everyone under current circumstances, such discrimination and unjustified violation of the schengen agreement is both unacceptable and unreasonable.
in writing. ‒ the proposal decided to set up a special committee to examine, on the one hand, tax rulings and other measures similar in nature or effect, examining the existing practice in the application of state aid and union law on taxation in relation to tax rulings and other measures similar in nature or effect adopted by member states, where it appears that such practice is being used by a member state or the commission, and, on the other hand, harmful corporate tax regimes and practices at european and international level, which would: the committee established shall fully build on and complete the work carried out by the taxe special committee, in particular to address the outstanding issues highlighted in the abovementioned resolution of 25 november 2015, to have access to documents related to its work, including minutes of meetings of the code of conduct group, and to establish the necessary contacts with international, european and national institutions and forums, parliaments and governments of member states and third countries, as well as with representatives of the academic, business and civil society communities, including social partners, and to organise joint hearings, in close cooperation with the standing committees.
in writing. ‒ on 12 february 2015, the european parliament decided to set up a special committee on tax rulings and other measures similar in nature or effect, known as taxe, with its powers, number of members and term of office. the mandate of the special committee expired in the summer of that year, and its report was discussed and adopted by parliament on 25 november. in the light of the findings of the report, the conference of presidents proposed that parliament establish a special committee, with the same powers, staff and structure as the taxe special committee, to complete the work of the taxe special committee and monitor the implementation of the recommendations contained in the resolution of 25 november. i supported the motion for a resolution.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of setting up a special committee of the european parliament on tax rulings. the first taxe committee's recently adopted report gave an excellent overview of the harmful tax avoidance and tax evasion practices of individual member states and multinational companies to date and made clear and detailed recommendations to the european commission and the member states to deal effectively with this unacceptable situation. but the work did not end there. until we have completely eliminated harmful tax avoidance practices and achieved a fundamental change in political ethics in this area, close and continuous monitoring will be necessary. sadly, harmful tax practices have become almost the norm in some countries. in addition, new tax evasion schemes, loopholes are emerging. they must be monitored and brought to their attention. the new special committee will have a major role to play in this. i also think it is right that the new committee should retain the structure of the first taxe committee, along which the members have been able to work effectively over the past year.
in writing. ‒ the european parliament decided to set up a special committee, following the taxe committee, to examine the existing practice in the field of conditional tax rulings and other measures similar in nature or effect, and the application of eu law on state aid and taxation. the new body will build entirely on the work done by the taxe special committee and will seek to close outstanding issues. i naturally voted in favour of the establishment of the committee.
in writing. ‒ parliament approved the proposed appointments without a vote.
in writing. ‒ as i made clear in setting up the special committee, the european parliament decided to set up a special committee, following the taxe committee, to deal with conditional tax rulings and other measures similar in nature or effect, examining the existing practice in the application of eu law on state aid and taxation. the new body will build entirely on the work done by the taxe special committee and will seek to close outstanding issues. i also supported the technical proposals related to this.
in writing. ‒ the european union and liechtenstein signed an agreement on the automatic exchange of financial account information on 28 october 2015 to improve international tax cooperation and compliance. i am convinced that the agreement represents an important step forward in the efforts to combat tax fraud and tax evasion. the agreement establishes an automatic exchange of information between the eu and liechtenstein on the financial accounts of each other's residents as from 2017. the aim is to address situations where taxable persons seek to conceal income or capital representing assets for which tax has not yet been paid. a key element of the arrangement is also to ensure that the information exchanged covers not only income such as interest and dividends but also account balances and income from the sale of financial instruments. in this sense, i welcome the role of being able to identify precisely and clearly the taxpayers concerned and to apply and enforce their tax laws in cross-border cases and to assess the likelihood of tax fraud being committed.
in writing. ‒ the european union and liechtenstein signed an agreement on the automatic exchange of financial account information on 28 october 2015 to improve international tax cooperation and compliance. the agreement was submitted to the council for approval by the commission, which is obliged under the treaty on the functioning of the european union to consult the parliament before taking a decision. in its report, the committee recommends that parliament give its consent to the conclusion of the agreement. i voted for the motion.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the adoption of the report, which updates the 2004 agreement between liechtenstein and the eu, which ensures that the principality applies measures equivalent to the eu directive on taxation of interest income from savings. the eu-liechtenstein agreement on the automatic exchange of financial account information concluded in october 2015 is of particular importance as it allows for more effective action to be taken against tax fraud and tax evasion. it is important that the eu conclude similar agreements with third european countries and update them if necessary, as this is the only way to effectively tackle tax fraudsters who try to hide their taxable income and assets from european tax authorities. the eu is welcome to consider liechtenstein as a partner in international tax cooperation.
in writing. ‒ the european union and liechtenstein signed an agreement on the automatic exchange of financial account information on 28 october 2015 to improve international tax cooperation and compliance. the agreement represents an important step in efforts to combat tax fraud and tax evasion and updates the 2004 agreement which ensures that liechtenstein applies measures equivalent to the eu directive on taxation of savings income in the form of interest payments. i voted in favor of the motion.
in writing. ‒ on 1 december 2009, with the entry into force of the lisbon treaty, the eu charter of fundamental rights became legally binding on frontex, which is a specialised eu agency supporting, coordinating and developing the management of the eu's external borders. in the light of this new legal framework and in view of the interest shown by civil society in the management of the union's external borders, including its fundamental rights aspect, the ombudsman considered it useful to clarify, by means of an ex officio inquiry, how frontex implements the above provisions. in the current immigration crisis, accepting the ombudsman's proposals would further weaken europe's border protection capabilities. the alternative proposal of the enf is agreed: 'member states currently have more important things to do, such as ensuring the safety and freedom of their own citizens.' the proposed complaint mechanism would have the opposite effect of preventing illegal immigrants from entering the schengen area and would also hinder the return of illegal immigrants to their country of origin. on these grounds, i have rejected the report by a vote of no confidence.
in writing. ‒ frontex is one of our best agencies, and the people who work there have a high degree of integrity. the assistance provided by frontex to member states in coordinating the flow of migrants at the eu's external borders in the current crisis situation deserves special mention and thanks. i would like to welcome the proactive approach and actions of the agency in relation to the complaint handling mechanism. however, it should be clarified that frontex is no longer entitled to take action against national law enforcement officials participating in its operations, as such actions fall under national jurisdiction only. the agency can only act against its own staff, as frontex has only a coordinating role. in order to ensure that this union agency can operate properly and professionally and fulfil its important mandate, the commission and the member states should ensure that it has the necessary financial resources to function properly.
in writing. ‒ frontex is one of our best agencies, and the people who work there have a high degree of integrity. the assistance provided by frontex to member states in coordinating the flow of migrants at the eu's external borders in the current crisis situation deserves special mention and thanks. i would like to welcome the proactive approach and actions of the agency in relation to the complaint handling mechanism. however, it should be clarified that frontex is no longer entitled to take action against national law enforcement officials participating in its operations, as such actions fall under national jurisdiction only. the agency can only act against its own staff, as frontex has only a coordinating role. in order to ensure that this union agency can operate properly and professionally and fulfil its important mandate, the commission and the member states should ensure that it has the necessary financial resources to function properly.
in writing. ‒ regulation (eu) no 1168/2011 of the european parliament and of the council of 25 october 2011 amending council regulation (ec) no 2007/2004 establishing a european agency for the management of operational cooperation at the external borders of the member states of the european union, the agency is to ensure full respect for fundamental rights and the rights of migrants, refugees and asylum seekers under the frontex regulation. the european union also wishes to accede to the council of europe convention for the protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms. in this context, i agree with the rapporteur that the special report issued by the european ombudsman in the context of his own-initiative inquiry into frontex is welcome. while acknowledging the ongoing efforts of frontex to strengthen respect for fundamental rights, including the establishment of a reporting system, the development of codes of conduct, the establishment of the consultative forum on fundamental rights and the establishment of the fundamental rights officer's office, i also support the european ombudsman's recommendation that frontex deal with individual complaints about fundamental rights violations in its operations and provide appropriate administrative support to this end.
in writing. ‒ in the current crisis, the assistance provided by frontex to member states in coordinating the flow of migrants at the eu's external borders is particularly noteworthy and deserves our thanks. i welcome the agency's proactive approach and actions regarding the complaint handling mechanism. however, it should be clarified that frontex is still not entitled to take action against national law enforcement officials, and that operational procedures are a matter for national competence only. the agency can only act against its own staff, since frontex is only entitled to a coordinating role. in order to ensure that this union agency continues to operate properly and professionally and to fulfil its important mandate, the commission and the member states should ensure that it has the appropriate financial means to function.
in writing. ‒ frontex is one of our best agencies, with a high level of expertise. the assistance provided by frontex to member states in coordinating the flow of migrants at the eu's external borders in the current crisis situation deserves special mention and thanks. i would like to welcome the proactive approach and actions of the agency in relation to the complaint handling mechanism. however, it should be clarified that frontex remains not entitled to take action against national law enforcement officials participating in its operations. these procedures are a matter of national competence only. the agency can only act against its own staff, as frontex has only a coordinating role. in order to ensure that this union agency can operate properly and professionally and fulfil its important mandate, the commission and the member states should ensure that it has the necessary financial resources to function properly.
in writing. ‒ frontex is one of our best agencies, and the people who work there have a high degree of integrity. the assistance provided by frontex to member states in coordinating the flow of migrants at the eu's external borders in the current crisis situation deserves special mention and thanks. i would like to welcome the proactive approach and actions of the agency in relation to the complaint handling mechanism. however, it should be clarified that frontex is no longer entitled to take action against national law enforcement officials participating in its operations, as such actions fall under national jurisdiction only. the agency can only act against its own staff, as frontex has only a coordinating role. in order to ensure that this union agency can operate properly and professionally and fulfil its important mandate, the commission and the member states should ensure that it has the necessary financial resources to function properly.
in writing. ‒ on 7 november 2013, the european ombudsman presented a special report on his own initiative inquiry oi/5/2012/beh-mhz into frontex. in its joint report, the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs and the committee on petitions propose to welcome the ombudsman's special report and support the ombudsman's recommendation that frontex deal with individual complaints about fundamental rights violations in its operations and to this end establish an individual complaint mechanism. i supported the motion.
in writing. ‒ frontex is one of our best agencies, and the people who work there have a high degree of integrity. the assistance provided by frontex to member states in coordinating the flow of migrants at the eu's external borders is particularly important in the current crisis situation. however, it should be clarified that frontex is no longer entitled to take action against national law enforcement officials participating in its operations, as such actions fall under national jurisdiction only. the agency can only act against its own staff, as frontex has only a coordinating role. in order to ensure that this union agency can operate properly and professionally and fulfil its important mandate, the commission and the member states should ensure that it has the necessary financial resources to function properly.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the adoption of the report because i consider the european ombudsman's proposals to be important and particularly timely. i agree with the approach that a common european response to the refugee crisis naturally requires strengthening the powers, resources and organisation of frontex, but we must not lose sight of the fact that our border guards are faced with a mass of vulnerable people who are fleeing real dangers and not hostile ones. the new challenge requires frontex staff to be both efficient and flexible, with a humane approach. the ombudsman's report provides the appropriate legal and human backing for this, in particular by introducing a new, transparent complaints mechanism that protects the rights and identity of complainants while minimising the possibility of abuse, in keeping with the letter and spirit of the charter of fundamental rights. i also believe that it is appropriate to give priority to humanitarian considerations and the human rights of refugees in frontex's work, because it is a fact that within the union - even at the level of the governments and heads of government of certain member states - there is a conscious combination of anti-refugee political sentiment, xenophobic incitement, the challenges of migration and international terrorism. in this political context, the ombudsman's report can only be welcomed as both a warning and a concrete package of proposals to protect common european values.
in writing. ‒ frontex's task is to ensure the effective implementation of common rules on requirements and procedures for the control and surveillance of external borders, while respecting fundamental rights, through closer coordination of operational cooperation between member states. as an integral part of its mandate, frontex should establish operational cooperation with non-eu countries in key areas such as information exchange, risk analysis, training, research and development, joint operations (including joint return operations) and pilot projects. i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ the primary objective of the report on sustainable urban mobility is to provide a solution to the congestion problems of large eu cities and the resulting greenhouse gas emissions. the report shall take into account the possibilities available under the greenery item. however, the report also contains some objectionable elements. it is based on a european approach to urban development, which takes account of the geographical, developmental and cultural diversity of the eu, and is based on eu rules and standards, and is coordinated by the commission, and goes beyond the subject of urban mobility. it thus limits the national competence of governments to formulate and implement development policies in their own territory. there is also a risk that the local development policy coordinated by the commission could have a negative impact on cities in the countries of central and eastern europe. the application of the transport 2050 strategy and the realisation of its objectives is a pipe dream. it is not possible at eu level to halve the use of all conventional motor vehicles by 2030 and to completely remove them from mobility by 2050. the commission notes that the commission has not provided any evidence that the measure is compatible with the internal market. despite these objections, the report is generally positive and i therefore supported its adoption.
in writing. ‒ sustainability and resource efficiency are essential for the long-term development of urban transport. joint european work should be undertaken to ensure the sustainability, preservation and development of urban mobility, which requires high levels of investment. these measures will have a positive impact not only on transport but also on the economy and the labour market. of course, there are many other positive effects that can be generated by this development, such as reducing co2 emissions, improving quality of life and health, developing infrastructure and stimulating innovation. we need to set ambitious targets, and our regions and cities need to work together to achieve them. the original approach was too green and the report had to be adapted several times. however, the amendments have led to a draft that is acceptable to the majority and is feasible, and which i personally supported by voting in favour of.
in writing. ‒ sustainability and resource efficiency are essential for the long-term development of urban transport. joint european work should be undertaken to ensure the sustainability, preservation and development of urban mobility, which requires high levels of investment. these measures will have a positive impact not only on transport but also on the economy and the labour market. of course, there are many other positive effects that can be generated by this development, such as reducing co2 emissions, improving quality of life and health, developing infrastructure and stimulating innovation. we need to set ambitious targets, and our regions and cities need to work together to achieve them. the original approach was too green and the report had to be adapted several times. however, the amendments have led to a draft that is acceptable to the majority and is feasible, and which i personally supported by voting in favour of.
in writing. ‒ sustainability and resource efficiency are essential for the long-term development of urban transport. joint european work should be undertaken to ensure the sustainability, preservation and development of urban mobility, which requires high levels of investment. these measures will have a positive impact not only on transport but also on the economy and the labour market. the amendments have led to a draft that is acceptable to the majority and is feasible, and which i personally voted in favour of.
in writing. ‒ i believe that mobility should not be an end in itself, but a right for all citizens. soon, 80% of europeans will live in cities, and this will require even greater attention. public transport is used by many people and for many it is vital that it is functioning properly and accessible. this also applies to people with reduced mobility. the commission will also assess the impact of the new rules on the use of public transport services in the union. it is very important to note that not all member states and local authorities have a sustainable urban mobility plan. i support the rapporteur in calling on the european commission to close this gap by making the financing of urban mobility conditional on local authorities developing a sustainable urban mobility plan. the rapporteur calls on the member states to ensure that sustainable urban mobility plans are developed and implemented in their urban areas and are integrated into a broader strategy for sustainable urban and territorial development.
in writing. ‒ sustainability and resource efficiency are essential for the long-term development of urban transport. the investment costs of urban mobility development, which is a joint european effort, are extremely high. therefore, these measures will have a positive impact not only on transport but also on the economy and the labour market. of course, there are many other positive effects that these developments can bring about, such as reducing co2 emissions, improving the quality of life, developing infrastructure and stimulating innovation. we need to set ambitious targets, and our regions and cities need to work together to achieve them. the original approach was too green and the report had to be revised several times. however, the amendments were able to produce a draft that was acceptable and feasible for the majority.
in writing. ‒ sustainability and resource efficiency are essential for the long-term development of urban transport. joint european work should be undertaken to ensure the sustainability, preservation and development of urban mobility. this requires a high level of investment. this will have a positive impact not only on transport, but also on the economy and the labour market. in addition, there are a number of other positive effects that development can bring about, such as reducing co2 emissions, improving quality of life and health, developing infrastructure and stimulating innovation. we need to set ambitious targets, and our regions and cities need to work together to achieve them. in view of the above, i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ sustainability and resource efficiency are essential for the long-term development of urban transport. joint european work should be undertaken to ensure the sustainability, preservation and development of urban mobility, which requires high levels of investment. these measures will have a positive impact not only on transport but also on the economy and the labour market. of course, there are many other positive effects that can be generated by this development, such as reducing co2 emissions, improving quality of life and health, developing infrastructure and stimulating innovation. we need to set ambitious targets, and our regions and cities need to work together to achieve them. the original approach was too green and the report had to be adapted several times. however, the amendments have led to a draft that is acceptable to the majority and is feasible, and which i personally supported by voting in favour of.
in writing. ‒ the committee on transport and tourism has proposed a resolution on sustainable urban mobility to the european parliament. in its report, the commission points out that 80% of europeans will soon live in cities. while mobility should be a right for all citizens, the excessive use of conventional fuel vehicles and the associated congestion limits this right. the car is the main means of mobility for 43% of the world's kilometres and for three quarters of european journeys; the total annual additional cost of congestion in european cities is estimated at around eur 80 billion. at the same time, 50% of trips within the urban area are less than 5 km, meaning that they could easily be made on foot, by bicycle or by public transport. the report therefore aims to shift urban mobility towards sustainable modes of transport. i voted for the motion.
in writing. ‒ sustainability and resource efficiency are essential for the long-term development of urban transport. joint european work should be undertaken to ensure the sustainability, preservation and development of urban mobility, which requires high levels of investment. these measures will have a positive impact not only on transport but also on the economy and the labour market. of course, there are many other positive effects that can be generated by this development, such as reducing co2 emissions, improving quality of life and health, developing infrastructure and stimulating innovation. we need to set ambitious targets, and our regions and cities need to work together to achieve them.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on sustainable, energy-efficient urban mobility, as i share the view that this is a right for all citizens, including those with reduced mobility. more and more people live in cities, and that's why it's important to formulate principles that make it easier for people to move around in a sustainable way. this should be done in such a way that transport has the lowest possible environmental and health impact, for example by reducing the tax incentive for urban transport vehicles running on diesel. urban transport alone accounts for a quarter of greenhouse gas emissions, which need to be reduced to meet the european union's 2030 targets. as stated in a previous report, air pollution in the major cities of the european union causes about 400 000 premature deaths a year. this is often the case with fine particulate matter, which is largely emitted by diesel engines, which account for 55% of the european vehicle fleet. this trend, in my view, has not only environmental and health implications but also economic ones, as member states' energy dependence and energy bills are increasing. i therefore agree that immediate action is needed and that urban mobility today and in the future should be based largely on green mobility and cooperative networks.
in writing. ‒ mobility should not be an end in itself, but a right for all citizens. soon, 80% of europeans will live in cities, so mobility should make it easier for everyone, including people with reduced mobility, to get to school, work, and access culture, leisure and healthcare. this report sets out to move urban mobility towards sustainable modes of transport in order to meet the challenges of our century, protecting the climate, our health and environment, our well-being and our safety. i voted for it.
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, mr commissioner, and my fellow members of the european parliament, the european people's party is committed to creating an energy union in the interests of european citizens. the report we are discussing today gives a balanced overview of the steps that can bring us closer to a european energy policy for consumers. our decision tomorrow could be a clear path. our aim is to increase security of supply and energy efficiency at affordable prices. this will require, where necessary, the construction of new infrastructure, further harmonisation of the market and enforcement of legislation. at the end of the road - we hope - lies a europe that is able to increase its competitiveness on the international stage. a europe where new jobs are created, for example through technological research and development, stimulating innovation or investing in energy efficiency. this is a long road, there is a lot of work to be done here in parliament, and to make it happen, we as legislators must be ready to compromise at all times. the report under consideration is a good example of this. i would like to ask one question in particular: i welcome the compromise on the exploitation of mineral resources within europe's borders. i am glad we agree that it is not for parliament to decide what is economic and what is not, what has potential and what does not. that is for the operators to decide. our job is to establish a proper regulatory framework and demand strict climate, health and environmental standards. finally, i hope that tomorrow, as a result of constructive cooperation, parliament will be able to send its message to the european citizens on the importance of the energy union.
it's a two-card draw. mr president, mr member, i would like to ask a very similar question, but i will be a little more specific: on the subject of the energy mix, i would be very curious if you could tell me what your group, your group, thinks about nuclear energy within this energy mix, especially in view of the fact that some member states think about interpreting the energy union flexibly and would not want to make compromises in this respect.
it's a two-card draw. mr president, mr member of parliament, you mentioned together in your speech shale gas, coal and nuclear energy. do you think they're equal in terms of decarbonization? because there's always renewable energy as the only alternative. so my question is, do you treat the use of nuclear energy that a country wants to use on the same level as coal? do you not see it as clean energy in some sense?
mr president my fellow members of parliament! i think it's a good report, and we're going to vote on it tomorrow in the vote. but let me remind you, and our constituents, that this is nothing more than a theory that we're going to legislate. what the practical implementation will be, we don't know yet, we can't see. and it is not by chance that i draw attention to the importance of the practical implementation of this law, together with the enforcement of the laws, because i could come up with some rather bad examples, and i will come up with one that affected my country at the time when hungary announced its plan to renovate and reconstruct the paks nuclear power plant, which met with considerable opposition from the european commission. i really hope this doesn't work out that way in the future. i would also like to draw attention to another very important point: if we are really serious about this and we pass legislation on the energy union tomorrow, then i hope that compromise solutions will survive, which means that it will not be the european commission, nor brussels, that will tell the member states what their tasks are in the energy field, what they can and cannot do, but that they will be able to choose this independently, independently, of course in cooperation with the commission. i wish you all a good job.
mr. president, my dear officer. the success of the paris climate summit, which may be historic, may finally put an end to the near-exclusive dominance of hydrocarbons that has characterized us for the past century. just as coal was replaced by oil and natural gas in the 20th century, fossil fuels will be replaced in the 21st century by renewable energy, at least we hope so. it is not just a green policy, it is not just an environmental issue, it is an economic rationality that no european government can now avoid recognising. as the european union works together on a common energy policy, some member governments prefer to block it. there are those who would build new gas pipelines with separate passenger policies, and there are those who want to build a new nuclear power plant with russia's billion-dollar giga-loans. this is all wrong! this is not about national sovereignty, but about playing to the whims of the international energy policy of the states they represent. the common european energy community should therefore be chosen over the member states' separate passenger policy.
in writing.– in the past year, i have seen the nuclear industry come back with false arguments about the major role of nuclear to reduce co2 emissions while taking every opportunity to secure public funding. first of all, 1.8% of energy consumed in the world in 2013 was of nuclear source according to the international energy agency's statistics. therefore, it can hardly be argued that nuclear energy makes difference to protect our climate while the safety and environmental risks certainly outweigh its meagre contribution to co2 reduction, despite all contrary propaganda from the companies. nuclear is expensive and not profitable - the proof of this is in the report: "nuclear energy should be supported in any form by the eu financial mechanisms or by the eu financial institutions;" and "eu provides an enabling framework for those member states that wish to pursue new nuclear power projects to do so, within eu internal market and competition rules;" these are desperate lobby efforts, and we cannot let european taxpayer's money be invested in outdated technologies that will create infrastructure-lock-in and take away precious public funds. we need to stop this from happening! please vote for renewables and energy efficiency, a cheaper and safer ways to our co2 emissions!
it's a trick question. - madam deputy! my heart goes out to you, especially with the family tragedies you mentioned. i was a member of parliament for a long time in my country, hungary, in a constituency where there were many victims of the second world war and their descendants. i speak of nazi terror because nazi terror had its victims. would you do me the favor of telling your party that you have fidesz sitting there, whose government is this week going to erect a statue of a man responsible for the nazi terror? thank you, thank you.
it's a trick question. madam president, i'm going to hold for 30 seconds. i'm not going to let you do this. i respect your work, and you know it very well, but we're in a debate here. this is a serious concern for the common market of 500 million people. what one member state does can have a big impact on another member state in two or three years, regardless of what that member state's government has done. i think it's inappropriate to favor the interests of big business in this case. thank you very much.
madam president, madam commissioner, i have to go. the eu's gmo authorisation system must be based on the precautionary principle, and i stress this again: the precautionary principle. and accordingly, the safety of gm products must be ascertained before authorization. a wide range of experts and others have already said this have questioned the adequacy of the health safety studies on nk603xt25 maize. the risk assessment carried out revealed the following deficiencies: - i do not want to go into chemistry here, but it was determined on the basis of simple modifications - the ergonomic and phenotypic characteristics of this genetically modified maize differed from its conventional counterpart. it was not understood why efsa did not consider any of the significant differences to be important. it should also be noted that although longer-term animal feeding trials would have been necessary to establish that this product does not present a risk, this has not been done. i'm going to draw your attention to what has already been said, and i've heard it said many times, that corn is resistant to phosphate-based herbicides. therefore, the use of these plant protection products may be increased during its production. the related gastricide was classified as a probable human carcinogen by the who in 2015. so i am absolutely in favour of the motion against the genetically modified organism in question.
in writing. i welcome this report, which seeks to put an end to the debate on competences between the council and the ep, to simplify and speed up the adoption of fishing quotas and technical measures, and to propose a broader range of scientific organisations involved in the preparation of the report. it is clear that the european union is forced to limit its sea fishing to maintain marine fish stocks, as overfishing has put them at risk. the reasoned measures taken to maintain them have led to a continuous and significant decline in the amount of marine fish caught. the cfp should therefore pay much more attention to sustainable fisheries, i.e. aquaculture, and in particular freshwater fisheries. in hungary, we find highly developed closed-system fish farms that are productive, sustainable and make a significant contribution to the preservation of biodiversity. the european union must support these economies with all its means.
on december 15, 1989, the multiethnic and multi-religious people of temesvár revolted in complete unity against the national communist romanian dictatorship. ceaușescu's notorious secret service, the securitate, tried in vain to turn them against each other: romanians and hungarians joined together and fought for freedom. a quarter of a century after the change of regime, the past continues to haunt me: the romanian intelligence service (sri) is provoking the transylvanian hungarian community in the manner of the former securitate and trying to turn the romanian majority against it. a striking example of this is the arrest and indictment of istván beke of the hand-picking shop for an act of terrorism. the international terrorism case is designed to stigmatize and criminalize the szeklerland region of hungary, which is fighting for its autonomy. according to the regime-changing temesvár declaration (1990) equality of rights and freedom are due to the romanian national minorities, namely the hungarians!
mr president the free flow of capital, the free flow of goods, and the free flow of services within the european union is going in one direction, from the so-called core countries, or from the colonizing countries, to the so-called periphery countries, or from the colonies within the european union. these freedoms mean that on the one hand this system of rules prevents us from building, protecting or strengthening our own national economies, and on the other hand this system of rules allows us to take over our markets completely. the other freedom of the european union, the free flow of labour, is going in the opposite direction, from the periphery countries to the core countries, or the flow of skilled nurses, doctors and other professionals earning 300 euros, 500 euros, to meet the demand for cheap labour in the core countries. i ask the leader of the eurogroup here how different the situation is with regard to the peripheral countries that are already part of the euro area, because it seemed like a balance of power.
it's a trick question. - mr. deputy, i have to ask you to leave. i am very pleased that you have brought up the case of non-euro area countries and that the parliaments of non-euro area countries are also being more involved in the process here through the european semester. my question is, is that all you're worried about? because i think the agenda of the european semester has just pushed the european parliament out of the proper line of debate. thank you very much.
i'll close this discussion. the vote will take place on thursday 17 december 2015. the commission shall be assisted by the committee established by article 15 of regulation (eu) no 182/2011.
in writing. the establishment of a budgetary council of the union, a euro area treasury, i.e. the european imf, and the creation of an eu unemployment fund are all within reach of deepening economic and monetary union. it has become clear to us that the deepening of the euro area has begun and is irreversible. only the governments of the member states do not understand this, and they want to stay out of the euro area, with their heads buried in the sand, citing dubious defenses of sovereignty. i am convinced that there is no short-term alternative to the euro. eurozone membership is in the interest of the hungarian people, because exchange rate risk would be eliminated, hungarian bank deposits would be backed by a european guarantee, the commission would put a short leash on the hungarian government that is squandering hungarian taxpayers' money and the national bank, which is no longer independent. participation in the world's strongest economic cooperation cannot be a domestic political game or a captive of nationalist rhetoric. the later we join the euro area member states, the harder it will be for us to integrate. hungarian interests dictate the early introduction of the euro, in order not to be permanently confined to the periphery of the european union.
in writing. the roots of europe are so deep that the european idea will survive any crisis, any revolution. this is how jean monnet, one of the founding fathers of the european union, put it. we'll bet you are. and we want it to be. the european community is currently experiencing the deepest crisis of the post-cold-fire and the pre-cold-fire era, and solutions are only in sight in the medium term. we must choose between national egoism and the resulting two-speed union, or closer integration through real, meaningful compromises. the economic crisis and the funding problems facing europe are undoubtedly reassessing the question of the euro area's effectiveness, but stability also requires strong positions. the two-speed union, which is now being organised in an increasingly open manner by hungarian countries, which are pushing for closer integration in economic and monetary matters, would be achieved without hungary, as intended. of course, i cannot tolerate the hungarians being pushed to the periphery. as a european democrat, i am in favour of closer integration, but it is also appropriate for the hungarian countries to play their cards more openly in their own plans.
in writing. ‒ i consider it extremely important that the european union and the swiss confederation have a balanced relationship based on a treaty, and i therefore voted in favour of adopting the recommendation.
in writing. ‒ in the negotiations between the european union and the swiss confederation, the parties reached an agreement on the detailed rules for swiss participation in the european asylum support office. the draft agreement was approved by the council and has been requested for parliament's consent in accordance with the treaty on the functioning of the european union. the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs recommended that parliament give its consent to the draft agreement. i voted on the motion accordingly.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the recommendation to approve switzerland's participation in the work of the european asylum support office. the role of this office, established in 2010, is to help implement the common european asylum system and to provide support to member states experiencing significant asylum pressure. the regulation has so far granted observer status to iceland, liechtenstein, norway and switzerland. as an alternate member of the delegation to the eu-iceland joint parliamentary committee and the eea joint parliamentary committee responsible for relations with switzerland and norway, i consider it particularly important that all such cooperation be regulated in detail. i am pleased that switzerland will now be able to participate fully in the work of the organisation once the council has adopted the draft agreement.
in writing. ‒ having regard, inter alia, to the draft agreement between the european union and the swiss confederation on the detailed rules for the latter's participation in the european asylum support office, i have given my consent to the conclusion of the agreement and to the formulation of parliament's position.
in writing. ‒ the agreement on visa-free short-stay travel is both a success in deepening relations between the european union and the country concerned, which is of great political importance, and a further means of strengthening economic and cultural links and encouraging political dialogue on a range of issues, including human rights and fundamental freedoms. the available data on mobility show a high level of trust in visa applicants and a low number of rejected applications. the country poses no threat to irregular migration, security or public order. i also consider it important that visa-free travel is not a negligible means of bringing the population of the european union and the citizens of the country concerned closer together. the visa waiver agreement will allow citizens to benefit fully, more cheaply and more easily from the opportunities offered by the partnership.
in writing. ‒ today we are giving our consent to the conclusion of the agreement with the eu, which has already been negotiated with the commission. the purpose of the proposal on visa facilitation agreement is the conclusion of an agreement on facilitating the issue of short-stay visas. the agreement also provides for visa-free travel for the citizens of the european union for a maximum period of 90 days in any 180-day period. the visa waiver covers all categories of persons (ordinary, diplomatic, service/official and special passport holders) travelling for all kinds of purposes, except for the purpose of carrying out a paid activity. we support today’s resolution and believe that it is important to have a good agreement because it helps to fight organised crime and terrorist organisations.
in writing. ‒ the agreement on visa-free short-stay travel is both a success in deepening relations between the european union and the dominican community, which is of great political importance in the context of the cotonou agreement, and a further tool for strengthening economic and cultural ties and encouraging political dialogue on various issues, including human rights and fundamental freedoms. the economy of dominica is primarily based on agriculture, which contributed an average of 11% of the country's gdp between 2000 and 2010. as a small island developing country, dominica has made significant efforts to diversify and has significant growth potential, for example in tourism and geothermal energy production. the agreement will boost tourism and strengthen trade and investment links. i voted in favour of the recommendation.
in writing. ‒ regulation (ec) no 539/2001 was amended by the european parliament and the council of 20 may 2014 by listing the dominican republic among the third countries whose nationals are exempt from the visa requirement when crossing the external borders of the member states. the commission subsequently negotiated between 12 november and 9 december 2014 the conclusion of a bilateral agreement to that effect between the european union and the dominican community. the agreement was initialled in brussels on 28 may 2015 and has since been awaiting parliament's approval. i voted in favour of the draft agreement, as recommended by the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs.
in writing. ‒ the agreement on visa-free short-stay travel is both a success in deepening relations between the european union and the dominican community, which is of great political importance in the context of the cotonou agreement, and a further tool for strengthening economic and cultural ties and encouraging political dialogue on various issues, including human rights and fundamental freedoms. that's why i supported the motion.
in writing. ‒ the agreement on visa-free short-stay travel is both a success in deepening relations between the european union and the country concerned, which is of great political importance, and a new tool for strengthening economic and cultural links and encouraging political dialogue on a range of issues, including human rights and fundamental freedoms. the available data on mobility show a high level of trust in visa applicants and a low number of rejected applications. the country poses no threat to irregular migration, security or public order. i also consider it important that visa-free travel is not a negligible means of bringing the population of the european union and the citizens of the country concerned closer together. the visa waiver agreement will allow citizens to benefit fully, more cheaply and more easily from the opportunities offered by the partnership.
in writing. ‒ today we are giving our consent to the conclusion of the agreement with the eu, which has already been negotiated with the european commission. the purpose of the proposal on visa facilitation agreement is the conclusion of an agreement on facilitating the issue of short-stay visas. the agreement also provides for visa-free travel for the citizens of the european union for a maximum period of 90 days in any 180-day period. the visa waiver covers all categories of persons (ordinary, diplomatic, service/official and special passport holders) travelling for all kinds of purposes, except for the purpose of carrying out a paid activity. we support today’s resolution and believe that it is important to have a good agreement because it helps to fight organised crime and terrorist organisations.
in writing. ‒ the agreement on visa-free short-stay travel is both a success in deepening relations between the european union and the republic of vanuatu, which is of great political importance in the context of the cotonou agreement, and a further means of strengthening economic and cultural ties and encouraging political dialogue on a range of issues, including human rights and fundamental freedoms. the most significant areas of economic cooperation and assistance between the union and vanuatu are currently the development of the private sector with a view to job creation and the development of economic policies related to agriculture and tourism. i voted in favour of the recommendation as the agreement allows for dialogue and cooperation on human rights and gender-based violence, among other issues.
in writing. ‒ regulation (ec) no 539/2001 was amended by regulation of the european parliament and of the council of 20 may 2014 to include the republic of vanuatu among the third countries whose nationals are exempt from the visa requirement when crossing the external borders of the member states. the commission subsequently negotiated between 19 november and 4 december 2014 the conclusion of a bilateral agreement to that effect between the european union and the republic of vanuatu. the agreement was initialled in brussels on 28 may 2015 and has since been awaiting parliament's approval. i voted in favour of the draft agreement, as recommended by the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs.
in writing. ‒ the agreement on visa-free short-stay travel is both a success in deepening relations between the european union and the republic of vanuatu, which is of great political importance in the context of the cotonou agreement, and a further tool for strengthening economic and cultural ties and encouraging political dialogue on a range of issues, including human rights and fundamental freedoms. that's why i supported the motion.
in writing. ‒ the agreement on visa-free short-stay travel is both a success in deepening relations between the european union and the country concerned, which is of great political importance, and a further means of strengthening economic and cultural links and encouraging political dialogue on a range of issues, including human rights and fundamental freedoms. the available data on mobility show a high level of trust in visa applicants and a low number of rejected applications. the country poses no threat to irregular migration, security or public order. i also consider it important that visa-free travel is not a negligible means of bringing the population of the european union and the citizens of the country concerned closer together. the visa waiver agreement will allow citizens to benefit fully, more cheaply and more easily from the opportunities offered by the partnership.
in writing. – today we are giving our consent to the conclusion of the agreement with the eu, which has already been negotiated with the european commission. the purpose of the proposal on visa facilitation agreement is the conclusion of an agreement on facilitating the issue of short-stay visas. the agreement also provides for visa-free travel for the citizens of the european union for a maximum period of 90 days in any 180-day period. the visa waiver covers all categories of persons (ordinary, diplomatic, service/official and special passport holders) travelling for all kinds of purposes, except for the purpose of carrying out a paid activity. we support today’s resolution and believe that it is important to have a good agreement because it helps to fight organised crime and terrorist organisations.
in writing. ‒ the agreement on visa-free short-stay travel is both a success in deepening relations between the european union and the republic of trinidad and tobago, which is of great political importance in the context of the cotonou agreement, and a further tool for strengthening economic and cultural ties and encouraging political dialogue on a range of issues, including human rights and fundamental freedoms. the agreement will boost tourism and strengthen trade and investment links, as the eu is trinidad and tobago's second most important trading partner. the visa waiver will facilitate travel for investors and thereby facilitate investment. in the light of the above, i voted in favour of the recommendation.
in writing. ‒ regulation (ec) no 539/2001 was amended by regulation of the european parliament and of the council of 20 may 2014 to include the republic of trinidad and tobago among the third countries whose nationals are exempt from the visa requirement when crossing the external borders of the member states. the commission subsequently negotiated between 12 and 15 december 2014 the conclusion of a bilateral agreement to that effect between the european union and the republic of trinidad and tobago. the agreement was initialled in brussels on 28 may 2015 and has since been awaiting parliament's approval. i voted in favour of the draft agreement, as recommended by the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs.
in writing. ‒ the agreement on visa-free short-stay travel is both a success in deepening relations between the european union and the republic of trinidad and tobago, which is of great political importance in the context of the cotonou agreement, and a further tool for strengthening economic and cultural ties and encouraging political dialogue on a range of issues, including human rights and fundamental freedoms. that's why i supported the motion.
in writing. ‒ the agreement on visa-free short-stay travel is both a success in deepening relations between the european union and the country concerned, which is of great political importance, and a further means of strengthening economic and cultural links and encouraging political dialogue on a range of issues, including human rights and fundamental freedoms. the available data on mobility show a high level of trust in visa applicants and a low number of rejected applications. the country poses no threat to irregular migration, security or public order. i also consider it important that visa-free travel is not a negligible means of bringing the population of the european union and the citizens of the country concerned closer together. the visa waiver agreement will allow citizens to benefit fully, more cheaply and more easily from the opportunities offered by the partnership.
in writing. ‒ today we are giving our consent to the conclusion of the agreement with the eu which has already been negotiated with the european commission. the purpose of the proposal on visa facilitation is the conclusion of an agreement on facilitating the issue of short-stay visas. the agreement also provides for visa-free travel for the citizens of the european union for a maximum period of 90 days in any 180-day period. the visa waiver covers all categories of persons (ordinary, diplomatic, service/official and special passport holders) travelling for all kinds of purposes, except for the purpose of carrying out paid activity. we support today’s resolution and believe that it is important to have a good agreement because it helps to fight organised crime and terrorist organisations.
in writing. ‒ the agreement on visa-free short-stay travel is both a success in deepening relations between the european union and the independent state of samoa, which is of great political importance in the context of the cotonou agreement, and a further tool for strengthening economic and cultural ties and encouraging political dialogue on a range of issues, including human rights and fundamental freedoms. the economy of samoa is one of the most dynamic in the pacific. the agricultural sector employs two thirds of the workforce and accounts for 90% of exports. the eu is currently negotiating a comprehensive economic partnership agreement with 14 countries in the pacific region, including samoa. the union and samoa shall cooperate in the following areas of economic cooperation: in the light of the above, i voted in favour of the recommendation.
in writing. ‒ regulation (ec) no 539/2001 was amended by regulation of the european parliament and of the council of 20 may 2014 to include the independent state of samoa among the third countries whose nationals are exempt from the visa requirement when crossing the external borders of the member states. the commission subsequently negotiated between 19 november and 15 december 2014 the conclusion of a bilateral agreement to that effect between the european union and the independent state of samoa. the agreement was initialled in brussels on 28 may 2015 and has since been awaiting parliament's approval. i voted in favour of the draft agreement, as recommended by the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs.
in writing. ‒ the agreement on visa-free short-stay travel is both a success in deepening relations between the european union and the independent state of samoa, which is of great political importance in the context of the cotonou agreement, and a further tool for strengthening economic and cultural ties and encouraging political dialogue on a range of issues, including human rights and fundamental freedoms. that's why i supported the motion.
in writing. ‒ the agreement on visa-free short-stay travel is both a success in deepening relations between the european union and the country concerned, which is of great political importance, and a further means of strengthening economic and cultural links and encouraging political dialogue on a range of issues, including human rights and fundamental freedoms. the available data on mobility show a high level of trust in visa applicants and a low number of rejected applications. the country poses no threat to irregular migration, security or public order. i also consider it important that visa-free travel is not a negligible means of bringing the population of the european union and the citizens of the country concerned closer together. the visa waiver agreement will allow citizens to benefit fully, more cheaply and more easily from the opportunities offered by the partnership.
in writing. ‒ today we are giving our consent to the conclusion of the agreement with the eu which has already been negotiated with the european commission. the purpose of the proposal on visa facilitation is the conclusion of an agreement on facilitating the issue of short-stay visas. the agreement also provides for visa-free travel for the citizens of the european union for a maximum period of 90 days in any 180-day period. the visa waiver covers all categories of persons (ordinary, diplomatic, service/official and special passport holders) travelling for all kinds of purposes, except for the purpose of carrying out paid activity. we support today’s resolution and believe that it is important to have a good agreement because it helps to fight organised crime and terrorist organisations.
in writing. ‒ the agreement on visa-free short-stay travel is both a success in deepening relations between the european union and grenada, which is of great political importance in the context of the cotonou agreement, and a further tool for strengthening economic and cultural ties and encouraging political dialogue on a range of issues, including human rights and fundamental freedoms. visa-free travel is a significant means of bringing european and caribbean peoples closer together. the visa waiver agreement will allow citizens to take full advantage of the opportunities offered by the acp-eu partnership and to make the process cheaper and easier. that's why i voted for the settlement.
in writing. ‒ regulation (ec) no 539/2001 was amended by the european parliament and the council of 20 may 2014 by listing grenada among the third countries whose nationals are exempt from the visa requirement when crossing the external borders of the member states. the commission subsequently negotiated between 12 november and 9 december 2014 the conclusion of a bilateral agreement to that effect between the european union and grenada. the agreement was initialled in brussels on 28 may 2015 and has since been awaiting parliament's approval. i voted in favour of the draft agreement, as recommended by the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs.
in writing. ‒ the agreement on visa-free short-stay travel is both a success in deepening relations between the european union and grenada, which is of great political importance in the context of the cotonou agreement, and a further tool for strengthening economic and cultural ties and encouraging political dialogue on a range of issues, including human rights and fundamental freedoms. that's why i supported the motion.
in writing. ‒ the agreement on visa-free short-stay travel is both a success in deepening relations between the european union and the country concerned, which is of great political importance, and a further means of strengthening economic and cultural links and encouraging political dialogue on a range of issues, including human rights and fundamental freedoms. the available data on mobility show a high level of trust in visa applicants and a low number of rejected applications. the country poses no threat to irregular migration, security or public order. i also consider it important that visa-free travel is not a negligible means of bringing the population of the european union and the citizens of the country concerned closer together. the visa waiver agreement will allow citizens to benefit fully, more cheaply and more easily from the opportunities offered by the partnership.
in writing. ‒ today we are giving our consent to the conclusion of the agreement with the eu which has already been negotiated with the european commission. the purpose of the proposal on visa facilitation is the conclusion of an agreement on facilitating the issue of short-stay visas. the agreement also provides for visa-free travel for the citizens of the european union for a maximum period of 90 days in any 180-day period. the visa waiver covers all categories of persons (ordinary, diplomatic, service/official and special passport holders) travelling for all kinds of purposes, except for the purpose of carrying out paid activity. we support today’s resolution and believe that it is important to have a good agreement because it helps to fight organised crime and terrorist organisations.
in writing. ‒ the agreement on visa-free short-stay travel is both a success in deepening relations between the european union and the democratic republic of timor-leste, which is of great political importance in the context of the cotonou agreement, and a further tool for strengthening economic and cultural ties and encouraging political dialogue on a range of issues, including human rights and fundamental freedoms. visa-free travel is a significant means of bringing the peoples of europe and the pacific closer together. the visa waiver agreement will allow citizens to take full advantage of the opportunities offered by the acp-eu partnership and to make the process cheaper and easier. so i voted in favour of the recommendation.
in writing. ‒ regulation (ec) no 539/2001 was amended by regulation of the european parliament and of the council of 20 may 2014 to include the democratic republic of timor-leste among the third countries whose nationals are exempt from the visa requirement when crossing the external borders of the member states. the commission subsequently negotiated between 19 november and 15 december 2014 the conclusion of a bilateral agreement to that effect between the european union and the democratic republic of timor-leste. the agreement was initialled in brussels on 28 may 2015 and has since been awaiting parliament's approval. i voted in favour of the draft agreement, as recommended by the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs.
in writing. ‒ the agreement on visa-free short-stay travel is both a success in deepening relations between the european union and the democratic republic of timor-leste, which is of great political importance in the context of the cotonou agreement, and a further tool for strengthening economic and cultural links and encouraging political dialogue on a range of issues, including human rights and fundamental freedoms. that's why i supported the motion.
in writing. ‒ the agreement on visa-free short-stay travel is both a success in deepening relations between the european union and the country concerned, which is of great political importance, and a further means of strengthening economic and cultural links and encouraging political dialogue on a range of issues, including human rights and fundamental freedoms. the available data on mobility show a high level of trust in visa applicants and a low number of rejected applications. the country poses no threat to irregular migration, security or public order. i also consider it important that visa-free travel is not a negligible means of bringing the population of the european union and the citizens of the country concerned closer together. the visa waiver agreement will allow citizens to benefit fully, more cheaply and more easily from the opportunities offered by the partnership.
in writing. ‒ today we are giving our consent to the conclusion of the agreement with the eu which has already been negotiated with the european commission. the purpose of the proposal on visa facilitation is the conclusion of an agreement on facilitating the issue of short-stay visas. the agreement also provides for visa-free travel for the citizens of the european union for a maximum period of 90 days in any 180-day period. the visa waiver covers all categories of persons (ordinary, diplomatic, service/official and special passport holders) travelling for all kinds of purposes, except for the purpose of carrying out paid activity. we support today’s resolution and believe that it is important to have a good agreement because it helps to fight organised crime and terrorist organisations.
in writing. ‒ the agreement on visa-free short-stay travel is both a success in deepening relations between the european union and saint lucia, which is of great political importance in the context of the cotonou agreement, and a further tool to strengthen economic and cultural ties and to encourage political dialogue on a range of issues, including human rights and fundamental freedoms. visa-free travel is a significant means of bringing european and caribbean peoples closer together. the visa waiver agreement will allow citizens to take full advantage of the opportunities offered by the acp-eu partnership and to make the process cheaper and easier. so i voted in favour of the recommendation.
in writing. ‒ regulation (ec) no 539/2001 was amended by the european parliament and the council of 20 may 2014 by listing saint lucia among the third countries whose nationals are exempt from the visa requirement when crossing the external borders of the member states. the commission subsequently negotiated between 12 november and 11 december 2014 the conclusion of a bilateral agreement to that effect between the european union and saint lucia. the agreement was initialled in brussels on 28 may 2015 and has since been awaiting parliament's approval. i voted in favour of the draft agreement, as recommended by the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs.
in writing. ‒ the agreement on visa-free short-stay travel is both a success in deepening relations between the european union and saint lucia, which is of great political importance in the context of the cotonou agreement, and a further tool for strengthening economic and cultural ties and encouraging political dialogue on a range of issues, including human rights and fundamental freedoms. that's why i supported the motion.
in writing. ‒ the agreement on visa-free short-stay travel is both a success in deepening relations between the european union and the country concerned, which is of great political importance, and a further means of strengthening economic and cultural links and encouraging political dialogue on a range of issues, including human rights and fundamental freedoms. the available data on mobility show a high level of trust in visa applicants and a low number of rejected applications. the country poses no threat to irregular migration, security or public order. i also consider it important that visa-free travel is not a negligible means of bringing the population of the european union and the citizens of the country concerned closer together. the visa waiver agreement will allow citizens to benefit fully, more cheaply and more easily from the opportunities offered by the partnership.
in writing. ‒ today we are giving our consent to the conclusion of the agreement with the eu which has already been negotiated with the european commission. the purpose of the proposal on visa facilitation is the conclusion of an agreement on facilitating the issue of short-stay visas. the agreement also provides for visa-free travel for the citizens of the european union for a maximum period of 90 days in any 180-day period. the visa waiver covers all categories of persons (ordinary, diplomatic, service/official and special passport holders) travelling for all kinds of purposes, except for the purpose of carrying out paid activity. we support today’s resolution and believe that it is important to have a good agreement because it helps to fight organised crime and terrorist organisations.
in writing. ‒ the agreement on visa-free short-stay travel is both a success in deepening relations between the european union and saint vincent and the grenadines, which is of great political importance in the context of the cotonou agreement, and a further tool to strengthen economic and cultural ties and to encourage political dialogue on a range of issues, including human rights and fundamental freedoms. visa-free travel is a significant means of bringing european and caribbean peoples closer together. the visa waiver agreement will allow citizens to take full advantage of the opportunities offered by the acp-eu partnership and to make the process cheaper and easier. so i voted in favour of the recommendation.
in writing. ‒ regulation (ec) no 539/2001 was amended by regulation of the european parliament and of the council of 20 may 2014 to include saint vincent and the grenadines among the third countries whose nationals are exempt from the visa requirement when crossing the external borders of the member states. the commission subsequently negotiated between 12 november and 11 december 2014 the conclusion of a bilateral agreement to that effect between the european union and saint vincent and the grenadines. the agreement was initialled in brussels on 28 may 2015 and has since been awaiting parliament's approval. i voted in favour of the draft agreement, as recommended by the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs.
in writing. ‒ the agreement on visa-free short-stay travel is both a success in deepening relations between the european union and saint vincent and the grenadines, which is of great political importance in the context of the cotonou agreement, and a further tool for strengthening economic and cultural ties and encouraging political dialogue on a range of issues, including human rights and fundamental freedoms. that's why i supported the motion.
in writing. ‒ the agreement on visa-free short-stay travel is both a success in deepening relations between the european union and the country concerned, which is of great political importance, and a further means of strengthening economic and cultural links and encouraging political dialogue on a range of issues, including human rights and fundamental freedoms. the available data on mobility show a high level of trust in visa applicants and a low number of rejected applications. the country poses no threat to irregular migration, security or public order. i also consider it important that visa-free travel is not a negligible means of bringing the population of the european union and the citizens of the country concerned closer together. the visa waiver agreement will allow citizens to benefit fully, more cheaply and more easily from the opportunities offered by the partnership.
in writing. ‒ today we are giving our consent to the conclusion of the agreement with the eu which has already been negotiated with the european commission. the purpose of the proposal on visa facilitation is the conclusion of an agreement on facilitating the issue of short-stay visas. the agreement also provides for visa-free travel for the citizens of the european union for a maximum period of 90 days in any 180-day period. the visa waiver covers all categories of persons (ordinary, diplomatic, service/official and special passport holders) travelling for all kinds of purposes, except for the purpose of carrying out paid activity. we support today’s resolution and believe that it is important to have a good agreement because it helps to fight organised crime and terrorist organisations.
in writing. ‒ the agreement on visa-free short-stay travel is both a success in deepening relations between the european union and the united arab emirates and a further means of strengthening economic and cultural ties and encouraging political dialogue on a range of issues, including human rights and fundamental freedoms. more than 150 000 european citizens have settled in the uae, the vast majority of them having moved there for economic reasons. some 1.6 million europeans visit the uae every year. in 2014, around 230 000 uae nationals travelled to europe, mainly for business or luxury tourism. according to the world organisation for migration, the most important obstacles to uae nationals travelling to europe are the visa requirement, the cost of the visa and the need to plan well in advance. the visa waiver agreement will allow many europeans to visit relatives in the uae more easily and to travel for business or personal reasons, including uae nationals. not to mention that it already has a number of direct flights to the european union. in the light of the above, i voted in favour of the recommendation.
in writing. the vote on the report on cooperation between the uae and europol, which is increasingly becoming a centre for economic and financial crime, is on the agenda today. the proceeds of intra-eu fraud and money laundering are often reinvested there, and the criminals involved in these frauds have also found refuge there. so we're supposed to make it easier for criminals to get a visa? i could only vote no on that.
in writing. ‒ regulation (ec) no 539/2001 was amended by regulation of the european parliament and of the council of 20 may 2014 to include the united arab emirates among the third countries whose nationals are exempt from the visa requirement when crossing the external borders of the member states. the commission subsequently negotiated between 5 november and 20 december 2014 the conclusion of a bilateral agreement to that effect between the european union and the united arab emirates. the agreement was initialled in brussels on 28 may 2015 and has since been awaiting parliament's approval. i voted in favour of the draft agreement, as recommended by the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs.
in writing. ‒ the agreement on visa-free short-stay travel is both a success in deepening relations between the european union and the united arab emirates and a further means of strengthening economic and cultural ties and encouraging political dialogue on a range of issues, including human rights and fundamental freedoms. that's why i supported the motion.
in writing. ‒ the envisaged implementing decision will take the form of a memorandum of understanding between eurojust and the office for harmonization in the internal market (ohim). the purpose of this agreement is to facilitate cooperation between the two institutions in order to enable them to operate in accordance with the powers and duties conferred on them. as the document states, the goal is strategic cooperation. this decision constitutes a specific implementing act which requires the approval of the european council after consulting the european parliament. i supported the adoption of the report.
in writing. ‒ the envisaged implementing decision will take the form of a memorandum of understanding between eurojust and the office for harmonization in the internal market (ohim). the purpose of this agreement is to facilitate cooperation between the two institutions in order to enable them to operate in accordance with the powers and duties conferred on them. as the document states, the goal is strategic cooperation. this decision constitutes a specific implementing act which requires the approval of the european council after consulting the european parliament.
in writing. ‒ the envisaged implementing decision will take the form of a memorandum of understanding between eurojust and the office for harmonization in the internal market (ohim). the purpose of this agreement is to facilitate cooperation between the two institutions in order to enable them to operate in accordance with the powers and duties conferred on them. as the document states, the goal is strategic cooperation. this decision constitutes a specific implementing act which requires the approval of the european council after consulting the european parliament.
in writing. ‒ the draft implementing decision shall formalise the conclusion by eurojust of the memorandum of understanding between the office for harmonization in the internal market (ohim) and eurojust, which falls within the remit of the committee on legal affairs under annex vi to the rules of procedure of the european parliament. the purpose of the memorandum of understanding is to promote cooperation between eurojust and the bphh in accordance with their respective mandates. eurojust and the bphh decided to conclude the memorandum of understanding because they are willing and able to establish strategic cooperation with each other to help achieve their respective objectives. the memorandum of understanding is in the common interest of eurojust and the bphh and should therefore be approved by the council. i voted for the settlement.
in writing. ‒ the envisaged implementing decision will take the form of a memorandum of understanding between eurojust and the office for harmonization in the internal market (ohim). the purpose of this agreement is to facilitate cooperation between the two institutions so that they can operate in accordance with their respective powers and duties. as the document states, the goal is strategic cooperation. this decision constitutes a specific implementing act which requires the approval of the european council after consulting the european parliament.
in writing. ‒ the envisaged implementing decision will take the form of a memorandum of understanding between eurojust and the office for harmonization in the internal market (ohim). the purpose of this agreement is to facilitate cooperation between the two institutions in order to enable them to operate in accordance with the powers and duties conferred on them. as the document states, the goal is strategic cooperation. this decision constitutes a specific implementing act which requires the approval of the european council after consulting the european parliament.
in writing. ‒ the envisaged implementing decision will take the form of a memorandum of understanding between eurojust and the office for harmonization in the internal market (ohim). the purpose of this agreement is to facilitate cooperation between the two institutions in order to enable them to operate in accordance with the powers and duties conferred on them. as the document states, the goal is strategic cooperation. this decision constitutes a specific implementing act which requires the approval of the european council after consulting the european parliament.
in writing. ‒ the purpose of the memorandum of understanding is to promote cooperation between eurojust and ohim, in accordance with their respective mandates. eurojust and the bphh declare their willingness and readiness to establish strategic cooperation with each other to help achieve their respective objectives'. in its report, the committee on legal affairs points out that the terms of the memorandum of understanding will contribute to the better performance of their tasks by both bodies, i.e. the agreement is in the common interest of eurojust and bphh and should therefore be approved by the council. it accordingly proposes that parliament approve the council's draft. i supported the proposal accordingly.
in writing. ‒ the envisaged implementing decision will take the form of a memorandum of understanding between eurojust and the office for harmonization in the internal market (ohim). the purpose of this agreement is to facilitate cooperation between the two institutions in order to enable them to operate in accordance with the powers and duties conferred on them. as the document states, the goal is strategic cooperation. this decision constitutes a specific implementing act which requires the approval of the european council after consulting the european parliament.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the approval of the memorandum of understanding between the office for harmonisation in the internal market and eurojust. this agreement is also important because a closer relationship will help eurojust and the office for harmonization in the internal market to better fulfil their own tasks. it's a shared interest, so we have to support it.
in writing. ‒ the envisaged implementing decision will take the form of a memorandum of understanding between eurojust and the office for harmonization in the internal market (ohim). the purpose of this agreement is to facilitate cooperation between the two institutions in order to enable them to operate in accordance with the powers and duties conferred on them. as the document states, the goal is strategic cooperation. this decision constitutes a specific implementing act which requires the approval of the european council after consulting the european parliament.
in writing. ‒ the draft implementing decision in question formalises the conclusion by eurojust of the memorandum of understanding between the office for harmonization in the internal market (ohim) and eurojust, which falls within the remit of the committee on legal affairs under annex vi to the rules of procedure of the european parliament. i voted in favor of the motion.
in writing. ‒ the current legislation relating to council decision 2007/436/ec, euratom had to be reviewed at the end of 2014 due to the particularly large vat and gni-based adjustment established for each member state. at the same time, the treaty on the functioning of the european union (tfeu) should be revised in the light of the experience gained from the 2014 adjustments. the european parliament stresses the need for effective rules on the way in which member states make their contributions to the eu budget available in a timely manner, as this will enable the commission to manage the fund efficiently. i support the possibility for the commission to ask member states to pay three-twelfths of the vat and gni-based resources in the first half of the year, in order to enable the commission to reduce a significant part of the payment arrears of the previous year to the european agricultural guarantee fund and the european structural and investment funds, and to reduce the interest on late payments. the modification of the methods for adjusting the contributions is aimed at avoiding a situation similar to that of 2014. on the basis of the above, i voted in favour of the adoption of the proposal.
in writing. ‒ the current legislation relating to council decision 2007/436/ec, euratom had to be reviewed at the end of 2014 due to the particularly large vat and gni-based adjustment established for each member state. at the same time, the treaty on the functioning of the european union (tfeu) should be revised in the light of the experience gained from the 2014 adjustments. the european parliament stresses the need for effective rules on the way in which member states make their contributions to the eu budget available in a timely manner, as this will enable the commission to manage the fund efficiently. parliament supports the possibility for the commission to ask member states to pay three-twelfths of vat and gni-based resources in the first half of the year, in order to enable the commission to reduce a significant part of the payment arrears of the previous year to the european agricultural guarantee fund and the european structural and investment funds, and to reduce interest on late payments. the modification of the methods for adjusting the contributions is aimed at avoiding a situation similar to that of 2014. on the basis of the above, i voted in favour of the adoption of the proposal.
in writing. ‒ the current legislation relating to council decision 2007/436/ec, euratom had to be reviewed at the end of 2014 due to the particularly large vat and gni-based adjustment established for each member state. at the same time, the treaty on the functioning of the european union (tfeu) should be revised in the light of the experience gained from the 2014 adjustments. the european parliament stresses the need for effective rules on the way in which member states make their contributions to the eu budget available in a timely manner, as this will enable the commission to manage the fund efficiently. parliament supports the possibility for the commission to ask member states to pay three-twelfths of vat and gni-based resources in the first half of the year, in order to enable the commission to reduce a significant part of the payment arrears of the previous year to the european agricultural guarantee fund and the european structural and investment funds, and to reduce interest on late payments. the modification of the methods for adjusting the contributions is aimed at avoiding a situation similar to that of 2014. on the basis of the above, i voted in favour of the adoption of the proposal.
in writing. ‒ the current legislation relating to council decision 2007/436/ec, euratom had to be reviewed at the end of 2014 due to the particularly large vat and gni-based adjustment established for each member state. at the same time, the treaty on the functioning of the european union (tfeu) should be revised in the light of the experience gained from the 2014 adjustments. the european parliament stresses the need for effective rules on the way in which member states make their contributions to the eu budget available in a timely manner, as this will enable the commission to manage the fund efficiently. parliament supports the possibility for the commission to ask member states to pay three-twelfths of vat and gni-based resources in the first half of the year, in order to enable the commission to reduce a significant part of the payment arrears of the previous year to the european agricultural guarantee fund and the european structural and investment funds, and to reduce interest on late payments. the modification of the methods for adjusting the contributions is aimed at avoiding a situation similar to that of 2014. on the basis of the above, i voted in favour of the adoption of the proposal.
in writing. ‒ the current legislation relating to council decision 2007/436/ec, euratom had to be reviewed at the end of 2014 due to the particularly large vat and gni-based adjustment established for each member state. at the same time, the treaty on the functioning of the european union (tfeu) should be revised in the light of the experience gained from the 2014 adjustments. the european parliament stresses the need for effective rules to ensure that member states make their contributions to the union budget on time. only then will the commission be able to manage the cash register effectively. parliament supports the possibility for the commission to ask member states to pay three-twelfths of vat and gni-based resources in the first half of the year, in order to enable the commission to reduce a significant part of the payment arrears of the previous year to the european agricultural guarantee fund and the european structural and investment funds, and to reduce interest on late payments. the modification of the methods for adjusting the contributions is aimed at avoiding a situation similar to that of 2014. on the basis of the above, i voted in favour of the adoption of the proposal.
in writing. ‒ explanation of vote resolution amending regulation (eu, euratom) no 609/2014 on the methods and mechanisms for providing traditional own resources accruing from vat and gni and on measures to address cash needs the legislation currently in force relating to council decision 2007/436/ec, euratom had to be reviewed at the end of 2014 due to the particularly large vat and gni adjustments established for individual member states. at the same time, the treaty on the functioning of the european union (tfeu) should be revised in the light of the experience gained from the 2014 adjustments. the european parliament stresses the need for effective rules on the way in which member states make their contributions to the eu budget available in a timely manner, as this will enable the commission to manage the fund efficiently. parliament supports the possibility for the commission to ask member states to pay three-twelfths of vat and gni-based resources in the first half of the year, in order to enable the commission to reduce a significant part of the payment arrears of the previous year to the european agricultural guarantee fund and the european structural and investment funds, and to reduce interest on late payments. the modification of the methods for adjusting the contributions is aimed at avoiding a situation similar to that of 2014. on the basis of the above, i voted in favour of the adoption of the proposal.
in writing. ‒ the commission has proposed to the council to amend regulation (eu, euratom) no 609/2014 on the methods and procedure for making available own resources accruing from traditional own resources, from vat and from gni, and on measures to meet cash requirements. the amendment aims to introduce effective rules to ensure that member states make their contributions to the union budget in a timely manner. it also allows the commission to ask member states to pay three-twelfths of the vat and gni-based resources in the first half of the year. in its report, the committee on budgets recommends that parliament approve the commission's draft, with amendments. i supported the motion.
in writing. ‒ the current legislation relating to council decision 2007/436/ec, euratom had to be reviewed at the end of 2014 due to the particularly large vat and gni-based adjustment established for each member state. at the same time, the treaty on the functioning of the european union (tfeu) should be revised in the light of the experience gained from the 2014 adjustments. the european parliament stresses the need for effective rules on the way in which member states make their contributions to the eu budget available in a timely manner, as this will enable the commission to manage the fund efficiently. parliament supports the possibility for the commission to ask member states to pay three-twelfths of vat and gni-based resources in the first half of the year, in order to enable the commission to reduce a significant part of the payment arrears of the previous year to the european agricultural guarantee fund and the european structural and investment funds, and to reduce interest on late payments. the modification of the methods for adjusting the contributions is aimed at avoiding a situation similar to that of 2014.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report because i agree with the objective of making the system for allocating member states' budgetary contributions more efficient, thereby helping the commission to better manage its cash. i think it is effective that the commission will now be able to ask member states to pay three-twelfths of the vat and gni-based resources in the first half of the year, in order to reduce the payment arrears of the previous year for some european funds. it is of the utmost importance that both the payments and the payments to beneficiaries from the union budget are made in a timely and efficient manner. i also agreed with the point that political interference in the way the eu budget is financed should be avoided at all costs. i also supported the request to the commission to examine and make recommendations for greater coherence in the national accounting of member states' contributions to the eu budget.
in writing. ‒ the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) aims to support the reintegration into the labour market of workers and self-employed persons made redundant as a result of globalisation, as a result of major structural changes in world trade patterns, or as a result of the prolongation of the global financial and economic crisis or a new global financial and economic crisis. on 12 june 2015, finland submitted an application, with reference number egf/2015/005 fi/computer programming, for a financial contribution from the egf, following redundancies in the regions of länsi-suomi, helsinki-uusima, etelä-suomi and pohjois- ja itä-suomi in finland. the application was supplemented by additional information in accordance with article 8 (3) of regulation (eu) no 1309/2013. the application complies with the requirements for determining the financial contribution from the egf as laid down in article 13 of regulation (eu) no 1309/2013. the european parliament therefore supported by a large majority the disbursement of a financial contribution of eur 2 623 200 to be granted on the basis of the request submitted by finland. on the basis of the above, i voted in favour of the adoption of the proposal.
in writing. ‒ the proposal supports the possibility for the commission to ask member states to pay three-twelfths of vat and gni-based resources in the first half of the year, in order to enable the commission to reduce a significant part of the payment arrears of the previous year to the european agricultural guarantee fund and the european structural and investment funds, and to reduce the interest on late payments. i voted in favor of the motion.
in writing. ‒ the prosecutor's office of the supreme court of the hellenic republic has requested the suspension of the immunity of georgios kyrtsos, member of the european parliament, in relation to possible legal action to be taken in relation to an alleged criminal offence. according to the request, the representative is accused of failing to pay part of the salary of one of their employees to two newspaper publishing companies that he once ran. as the committee on legal affairs points out in its report, the alleged act is not related to georgios kyrtsos' mandate as a member of the european parliament but to his previous activity as the head of two news publishing companies, and there is no reason to assume that the criminal proceedings were initiated with the aim of causing political damage to the member, since they were initiated several years before he became a member of parliament, and therefore it proposes that the parliament suspend the immunity of georgios kyrtsos. i supported the motion.
in writing. ‒ on 21 july 2015, the immunity of georgios kyrtsos was requested by the prosecutor's office of the greek supreme court from the ep in connection with a complaint concerning the non-payment of wages by the labour inspectorate of eastern acre. kyrtsos is accused of not paying part of the salary due to his former employee; the alleged act is not related to the mandate of georgios kyrtsos as a member of the european parliament, but to his previous activity as the head of two news publishing companies, and therefore the rapporteur proposed to suspend kyrtsos' immunity. i voted for it.
in writing. ‒ the public prosecutor's office of the supreme court of the hellenic republic has requested the suspension of the immunity of mr stelios kouloglou, member of the european parliament, in connection with proceedings brought on charges of defamation and breach of trust. the charges relate to statements that stelios kouloglou allegedly made to the press in 2010 regarding the integrity of certain employees of the patras prison when he was working as a television reporter. as the committee on legal affairs points out in its report, the alleged offence is not linked to the mandate of mr stelios kouloglou as a member of the european parliament but to his activities as a television journalist at the time, and there is no reason to believe that the criminal proceedings were initiated with the aim of causing political damage to the member, since they were initiated several years before he became a member of parliament, and it therefore proposes that the parliament suspend the immunity of mr stelios kouloglou. i supported the motion.
in writing. ‒ on 7 august 2015, the prosecutor of the supreme court of greece requested the suspension of the immunity of stelios kouloglou in proceedings for defamation and libel. kouloglou allegedly made a statement insulting certain employees of the patras prison in 2010 when he was making television reports as a journalist. the rapporteur considers that the measure is not linked to the mandate of the ep of kouloglou and therefore proposes to suspend the right of immunity. i voted for it.
in writing. ‒ the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) aims to support the reintegration into the labour market of workers and self-employed persons made redundant as a result of globalisation, as a result of major structural changes in world trade patterns, or as a result of the prolongation of the global financial and economic crisis or a new global financial and economic crisis. the finnish application complies with the requirements for determining the financial contribution from the egf as laid down in article 13 of regulation (eu) no 1309/2013. the european parliament's committee therefore supported by a large majority the disbursement of the financial contribution to be granted on the basis of the request submitted by finland. on the basis of the above, i voted in favour of the adoption of the proposal.
in writing. ‒ the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) aims to support the reintegration into the labour market of workers and self-employed persons made redundant as a result of globalisation, as a result of major structural changes in world trade patterns, or as a result of the prolongation of the global financial and economic crisis or a new global financial and economic crisis. on 12 june 2015, finland submitted an application, with reference number egf/2015/005 fi/computer programming, for a financial contribution from the egf, following redundancies in the regions of länsi-suomi, helsinki-uusima, etelä-suomi and pohjois- ja itä-suomi in finland. the application was supplemented by additional information in accordance with article 8 (3) of regulation (eu) no 1309/2013. the application complies with the requirements for determining the financial contribution from the egf as laid down in article 13 of regulation (eu) no 1309/2013. the european parliament therefore supported by a large majority the disbursement of a financial contribution of eur 2 623 200 to be granted on the basis of the request submitted by finland. on the basis of the above, i voted in favour of the adoption of the proposal.
in writing. ‒ the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) aims to support the reintegration into the labour market of workers and self-employed persons made redundant as a result of major structural changes in world trade patterns due to globalisation, or as a result of the prolongation of the global financial and economic crisis or a new global financial and economic crisis. on 12 june 2015, finland submitted an application, with reference number egf/2015/005 fi/computer programming, for a financial contribution from the egf, following redundancies in the regions of länsi-suomi, helsinki-uusima, etelä-suomi and pohjois- ja itä-suomi in finland. the application was supplemented by additional information in accordance with article 8 (3) of regulation (eu) no 1309/2013. the application complies with the requirements for determining the financial contribution from the egf as laid down in article 13 of regulation (eu) no 1309/2013. the european parliament therefore supported by a large majority the disbursement of a financial contribution of eur 2 623 200 to be granted on the basis of the request submitted by finland. on the basis of the above, i voted in favour of the adoption of the proposal.
in writing. ‒ the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) aims to provide support for the reintegration into the labour market of workers and self-employed persons made redundant as a result of major structural changes in world trade patterns due to globalisation, or as a result of the prolongation of the global financial and economic crisis or a new global financial and economic crisis. on 12 june 2015, finland submitted an application, with reference number egf/2015/005 fi/computer programming, for a financial contribution from the egf, following redundancies in the regions of länsi-suomi, helsinki-uusima, etelä-suomi and pohjois-ja itä-suomi in finland. the application was supplemented by additional information in accordance with article 8 (3) of regulation (eu) no 1309/2013. the application complies with the requirements for determining the financial contribution from the egf as laid down in article 13 of regulation (eu) no 1309/2013. the european parliament therefore supported by a large majority the disbursement of a financial contribution of eur 2 623 200 to be granted on the basis of the request submitted by finland. on the basis of the above, i voted in favour of the adoption of the proposal.
in writing. ‒ the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) aims to support the reintegration into the labour market of workers and self-employed persons made redundant as a result of globalisation, as a result of major structural changes in world trade patterns, or as a result of the prolongation of the global financial and economic crisis or a new global financial and economic crisis. on 12 june 2015, finland submitted an application, with reference number egf/2015/005 fi/computer programming, for a financial contribution from the egf, following redundancies in the regions of länsi-suomi, helsinki-uusima, etelä-suomi and pohjois-ja itä-suomi in finland. the application was supplemented by additional information in accordance with article 8 (3) of regulation (eu) no 1309/2013. the application complies with the requirements for determining the financial contribution from the egf as laid down in article 13 of regulation (eu) no 1309/2013. the european parliament therefore supported by a large majority the disbursement of a financial contribution of eur 2 623 200 to be granted on the basis of the request submitted by finland. on the basis of the above, i voted in favour of the adoption of the proposal
in writing. ‒ the european globalisation adjustment fund aims to provide support for workers affected by the consequences of major structural changes in world trade or made redundant as a result of the global financial and economic crisis and to support their reintegration into the labour market. finland has submitted an application for a financial contribution from the egf, following the redundancies of 1603 workers in 69 enterprises in the 'computer programming, consultancy and related services' sector. finland plans seven types of measures for the benefit of the workers made redundant as a result of the aid: i. coaching and other preparatory measures, ii. employment and business services, iii. training, iv. salary support, v. start-up aid, vi. business incentives and services for new entrepreneurs, vii. reimbursement of travel, accommodation and relocation costs. the measures are expected to involve 1200 redundant workers. in its report, the committee on budgets concludes that the application fulfils the eligibility criteria set out in the egf regulation and therefore proposes that parliament approve the disbursement of a financial contribution from the egf of eur 2 623 200 to be granted on the basis of the application submitted by finland. i supported the motion.
in writing. ‒ the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) aims to support the reintegration into the labour market of workers and self-employed persons made redundant as a result of globalisation, as a result of major structural changes in world trade patterns, or as a result of the prolongation of the global financial and economic crisis or a new global financial and economic crisis. on 12 june 2015, finland submitted an application, with reference number egf/2015/005 fi/computer programming, for a financial contribution from the egf, following redundancies in the regions of länsi-suomi, helsinki-uusima, etelä-suomi and pohjois-ja itä-suomi in finland. the application was supplemented by additional information in accordance with article 8 (3) of regulation (eu) no 1309/2013. the application complies with the requirements for determining the financial contribution from the egf as laid down in article 13 of regulation (eu) no 1309/2013. the european parliament therefore supported by a large majority the disbursement of a financial contribution of eur 2 623 200 to be granted on the basis of the request submitted by finland.
in writing. the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) aims to provide support for the reintegration into the labour market of workers made redundant as a result of globalisation, as a result of major structural changes in world trade patterns, or as a result of the prolongation of the global financial and economic crisis or a new global financial and economic crisis, and of self-employed persons whose activity has ceased. on 12 june 2015, finland submitted an application, with reference number egf/2015/005 fi/computer programming, for a financial contribution from the egf, following redundancies in the regions of länsi-suomi, helsinki-uusima, etelä-suomi and pohjois-ja itä-suomi in finland. the application was supplemented by additional information in accordance with article 8 (3) of regulation (eu) no 1309/2013. the application complies with the requirements for determining the financial contribution from the egf as laid down in article 13 of regulation (eu) no 1309/2013. the european parliament therefore supported by a large majority the disbursement of a financial contribution of eur 2 623 200 to be granted on the basis of the request submitted by finland. on the basis of the above, i voted in favour of the adoption of the proposal.
in writing. ‒ the european globalisation adjustment fund was established to provide additional support to workers affected by the consequences of major structural changes in world trade. the current proposal would help 1,603 dismissed workers to re-enter the labour market. i voted in favour of the request, of course.
in writing. ‒ the main objective of the proposal is to promote economic growth and innovation by improving the efficiency of and access to the trade mark register. the purpose of the revision of the regulation is to align the terminology of the legislation on decentralised agencies of the union with the language of the treaty of lisbon, to streamline and simplify the system and application of the european trade mark procedure, and to provide a new framework for cooperation between the office for harmonization in the internal market and national offices in accordance with article 290 tfeu.
in writing. ‒ the main objective of the proposal is to promote economic growth and innovation by improving the efficiency of and access to the trade mark register. the purpose of the revision of the regulation is to align the terminology of the legislation on decentralised agencies of the union with the language of the treaty of lisbon, to streamline and simplify the system and application of the european trade mark procedure, and to provide a new framework for cooperation between the office for harmonization in the internal market and national offices in accordance with article 290 tfeu.
in writing. ‒ the main objective of the proposal is to promote economic growth and innovation by improving the efficiency of and access to the trade mark register. the purpose of the revision of the regulation is to align the terminology of the legislation on decentralised agencies of the union with the language of the treaty of lisbon, to streamline and simplify the system and application of the european trade mark procedure, and to provide a new framework for cooperation between the office for harmonization in the internal market and national offices in accordance with article 290 tfeu.
in writing. ‒ the main objective of the proposal is to promote economic growth and innovation by improving the efficiency of and access to the trade mark register. the purpose of the revision of the regulation is to align the terminology of the legislation on decentralised agencies of the union with the language of the treaty of lisbon, to streamline and simplify the system and application of the european trade mark procedure, and to provide a new framework for cooperation between the office for harmonization in the internal market and national offices in accordance with article 290 tfeu.
in writing. ‒ the main objective of the proposal is to promote economic growth and innovation by improving the efficiency of and access to the trade mark register. the purpose of the revision of the regulation is to align the terminology of the legislation on decentralised agencies of the union with the language of the treaty of lisbon, to streamline and simplify the system and application of the european trade mark procedure, and to provide a new framework for cooperation between the office for harmonization in the internal market and national offices in accordance with article 290 tfeu.
in writing. ‒ the trade mark legislation of the member states has already been partly harmonised by directives 89/104/eec and 2008/95/ec. the aim of the current regulation is to: modernisation of existing provisions by amending outdated legislation. the amendments are intended to increase legal certainty and clarify the rules as regards scope and limitations. the second. further approximation of national regulations. the third. facilitating cooperation between the office for harmonization in the internal market and national agencies. this initiative is also part of the community trade mark package.
in writing. ‒ the commission has made a proposal to the parliament and the council for the adoption of a regulation of the european parliament and of the council repealing commission regulation (ec) no 2869/95. parliament adopted its position on the proposal at first reading on 25 february 2014. in its recommendation, the committee on legal affairs recommends that parliament, at second reading, agree with the council's position at first reading and thereby give effect to the regulation in accordance with the council's position. i voted for the motion.
in writing. ‒ the main objective of the proposal is to promote economic growth and innovation by improving the efficiency of and access to the trade mark register. the purpose of the revision of the regulation is to align the terminology of the legislation on decentralised agencies of the union with the language of the treaty of lisbon, to streamline and simplify the system and application of the european trade mark procedure, and to provide a new framework for cooperation between the office for harmonization in the internal market and national offices in accordance with article 290 tfeu.
in writing. ‒ the main objective of the proposal is to promote economic growth and innovation by improving the efficiency of and access to the trade mark register. the purpose of the revision of the regulation is to align the terminology of the legislation on decentralised agencies of the union with the language of the treaty of lisbon, to streamline and simplify the system and application of the european trade mark procedure, and to provide a new framework for cooperation between the office for harmonization in the internal market and national offices in accordance with article 290 tfeu.
in writing. ‒ the council position at first reading with a view to adopting a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending council regulation (ec) no 207/2009 on the community trade mark and commission regulation (ec) no 2868/95 implementing council regulation (ec) no 40/94 on the community trade mark and repealing commission regulation (ec) no 2869/95 on the fees payable to the office for harmonization in the internal market (trade marks and designs) was voted on in plenary; following the s&d group's position, i voted no.
in writing. ‒ the trade mark legislation of the member states has already been partly harmonised by directives 89/104/eec and 2008/95/ec. one of the objectives of the current legislation is to modernise existing provisions by amending outdated legislation. the amendments are intended to increase legal certainty and clarify the rules as regards scope and limitations. the second task is to further approximate national regulations. the second objective is to facilitate cooperation between the office for harmonization in the internal market and the national agencies. this initiative is also part of the community trade mark package.
in writing. ‒ the trade mark legislation of the member states has already been partly harmonised by directives 89/104/eec and 2008/95/ec. the aim of the current regulation is to: modernisation of existing provisions by amending outdated legislation. the amendments are intended to increase legal certainty and clarify the rules as regards scope and limitations. the second. further approximation of national regulations 3. facilitating cooperation between the office for harmonization in the internal market and national agencies. this initiative is also part of the community trade mark package.
in writing. ‒ the trade mark legislation of the member states has already been partly harmonised by directives 89/104/eec and 2008/95/ec. the aim of the current regulation is to: modernisation of existing provisions by amending outdated legislation. the amendments are intended to increase legal certainty and clarify the rules as regards scope and limitations. the second. further approximation of national regulations 3. facilitating cooperation between the office for harmonization in the internal market and national agencies. this initiative is also part of the community trade mark package.
in writing. ‒ the trade mark legislation of the member states has already been partly harmonised by directives 89/104/eec and 2008/95/ec. the aim of the current regulation is to: modernisation of existing provisions by amending outdated legislation. the amendments are intended to increase legal certainty and clarify the rules as regards scope and limitations. the second. further approximation of national regulations 3. facilitating cooperation between the office for harmonization in the internal market and national agencies. this initiative is also part of the community trade mark package.
in writing. ‒ the trade mark legislation of the member states has already been partly harmonised by directives 89/104/eec and 2008/95/ec. the objectives of the current regulation are: modernisation of existing provisions by amending outdated legislation. the aim of the amendments is to increase legal certainty and clarify the rules as regards scope and limitations. the second. further approximation of national regulations. the third. facilitating cooperation between the office for harmonization in the internal market and national agencies. this initiative is also part of the community trade mark package.
in writing. ‒ the trade mark legislation of the member states has already been partly harmonised by directives 89/104/eec and 2008/95/ec. the aim of the current regulation is to: modernisation of existing provisions by amending outdated legislation. the amendments are intended to increase legal certainty and clarify the rules as regards scope and limitations. the second. further approximation of national regulations 3. facilitating cooperation between the office for harmonization in the internal market and national agencies. this initiative is also part of the community trade mark package.
in writing. ‒ the commission has made a proposal to the european parliament and the council for the adoption of a directive of the european parliament and of the council on the approximation of the laws of the member states relating to trade marks. parliament adopted its position on the proposal at first reading on 25 february 2014. in its recommendation, the committee on legal affairs recommends that parliament, at second reading, agree with the council's position at first reading and thereby give effect to this directive in accordance with the council's position. i voted for the motion.
in writing. ‒ the trade mark legislation of the member states has already been partly harmonised by directives 89/104/eec and 2008/95/ec. the aim of the current regulation is to: modernisation of existing provisions by amending outdated legislation. the amendments are intended to increase legal certainty and clarify the rules as regards scope and limitations. the second. further approximation of national regulations 3. facilitating cooperation between the office for harmonization in the internal market and national agencies. this initiative is also part of the community trade mark package.
in writing. ‒ the trade mark legislation of the member states has already been partly harmonised by directives 89/104/eec and 2008/95/ec. the aim of the current regulation is to: modernisation of existing provisions by amending outdated legislation. the amendments are intended to increase legal certainty and clarify the rules as regards scope and limitations. the second. further approximation of national regulations 3. facilitating cooperation between the office for harmonization in the internal market and national agencies. this initiative is also part of the community trade mark package.
in writing. ‒ the council position at first reading on the adoption of the directive of the european parliament and of the council on the approximation of the laws of the member states relating to trade marks (recast) was voted on in plenary. following the s&d group's position, i voted no.
in writing. ‒ the european commission proposes to incorporate the recommendations of the north-east atlantic fisheries commission (neafc) into eu fisheries legislation as regards rules for atlantic fishing activities. in line with the epp's guidelines, i voted in favour of approving the text of the political agreement. it is clear that the european union is forced to limit its sea fishing to the extent necessary to maintain marine fish stocks. 30% of the world's oceans are overfished, and marine fish stocks are in danger. the reasoned measures taken to maintain them have led to a continuous and significant decline in the amount of marine fish caught. the cfp should therefore pay much more attention to sustainable fisheries, i.e. aquaculture, and in particular freshwater fisheries. a significant part of the hungarian wetlands is located in natura 2000 areas. these fish farms do not represent any threat to the natural values of these areas. in fact, in many cases it is our closed systems of wetlands that have created and preserved unique associations of aquatic habitats. therefore, freshwater aquaculture should be given priority and maximum support from the union. moreover, this area should be freed from unnecessarily stringent and unnecessary sustainability standards that are justified only for marine fisheries.
in writing. ‒ the convention on future multilateral fisheries cooperation in the north-east atlantic, to which the european union is a party, aims to ensure the long-term conservation and optimum exploitation of fisheries resources in the north-east atlantic, thereby providing sustainable environmental and social benefits. i voted in favor of the motion.
in writing. ‒ the commission's proposal to extend the autonomous trade measures for the western balkan countries and territories participating in the stabilisation and association process for a further five years, until 31 december 2020, is welcomed. this preferential trade arrangement has contributed to the increase in imports of western balkan products into the union. in 2013, the eu was the largest trading partner of the region in terms of both imports (72,7%) and exports (81,8%). these trade preferences, complementing existing bilateral agreements, together support economic integration with the union and thus contribute to the political stability and economic development of the region. these measures should be understood in the wider context of the union's policy towards the western balkan countries, the ultimate aim of which is to bring them closer to the union. the suspension of trade preferences for bosnia and herzegovina should be seen as an incentive to resolve the current differences with the union regarding the adjustment of the interim agreement with the union. it is hoped that the new authorities in bosnia and herzegovina will be able to resolve this outstanding issue, taking advantage of the positive momentum of the new eu approach to the country adopted by the foreign affairs council on 15 december 2014.
in writing. ‒ the commission has proposed to the european parliament and the council to adopt a regulation of the european parliament and of the council suspending the application of council regulation (ec) no 1215/2009 as regards bosnia and herzegovina. the liberalisation of trade between the eu and the western balkan countries is being achieved in the case of bosnia and herzegovina through a number of stabilisation and association agreements and an interim agreement. following the accession of croatia to the union on 13 july 2013, bosnia and herzegovina has not yet contributed to the adaptation of the interim agreement to take into account the preferential trade traditionally existing between croatia and bosnia and herzegovina before 1 july 2013 under the central european free trade agreement (cefta). as a result, the preferential quotas established in the interim agreement in 2008 for 27 eu member states are now used by 28 member states. after three rounds of negotiations with bosnia and herzegovina, no agreement was reached. the commission therefore proposes not to extend automatically the autonomous trade measures granted to bosnia and herzegovina. the eu and bosnia and herzegovina shall cooperate in the implementation of the agreement on trade facilitation and trade facilitation between the eu and bosnia and herzegovina. in its report, the committee on international trade recommends that parliament adopt the commission proposal with amendments. i supported the motion.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report and the treaty amendments proposed in it, as i believe that it could fundamentally contribute to the fulfilment of the conditions for the european integration of bosnia and herzegovina. i consider it appropriate that the eu should grant unilateral trade preferences to bosnia and herzegovina alongside other western balkan countries with an extended effect until 2020 in order to further adapt to the accession conditions, but i also agree that the differences between the two parties arising from the implementation of the interim agreement should be resolved as soon as possible. this is the aim of the proposed amendment, which allows the unilateral concession to be suspended from 1 january 2016 if the necessary conditions are not met. i also think it is a good step to introduce the extension of democratic rights under european standards through a human rights clause in the terms of the agreement, thereby bringing the agreement more into line with the accession conditions under the copenhagen criteria. the european parliament resolution i am hoping will inspire the government of this important balkan partner to take immediate and effective measures in these areas as well, in order to meet the accession criteria as closely as possible.
in writing. ‒ the liberalisation of trade between the eu and the western balkan countries is being achieved through a number of stabilisation and association agreements and an interim agreement in the case of bosnia and herzegovina. the extension of the current preferences is intended to allow time for the beneficiary countries to adjust the preferences under the basic regulation and the preferences granted under the stabilisation and association agreements and the interim agreements. i voted in favor of the motion.
in writing. ‒ there are clear operational needs for europol to cooperate with the united arab emirates, since according to europol, the united arab emirates are increasingly relevant in the fight against organised crime. this proposal concerns the proposed approval of a strategic cooperation agreement between europol and the united arab emirates. such agreements may concern the exchange of operational, strategic, technical or classified information. the operational cooperation agreement also includes the exchange of personal data. we support this strategic cooperation agreement with the united arab emirates, since it would aid and reinforce the fight against financial fraud and would contribute to enhancing international cooperation in the field of financial investigation and other relevant criminal matters.
in writing. ‒ article 23 (2) of the current council decision on europol (decision 2009/371/jha) requires the council to authorise the conclusion of international cooperation agreements with third countries or international organisations after consulting the european parliament. such an agreement may cover the exchange of operational, strategic, technical or classified information. the operational cooperation agreement shall also include the exchange of personal data. this proposal aims at the adoption of the proposed strategic cooperation agreement between europol and the united arab emirates. such a strategic agreement excludes the exchange of personal data, and therefore the issue of data protection is not relevant in this case. the information exchanged may include the field of expertise, general situation reports, results of strategic analysis and information on criminal investigation procedures and crime prevention methods, as well as training activities and the provision of advice and support for specific criminal investigations. i voted in favour of the conclusion of a strategic cooperation agreement between the uae and europol as it would help and strengthen the fight against financial fraud and contribute to international cooperation in the field of financial investigations and other relevant crimes.
in writing. the uae is increasingly becoming a centre for economic and financial crime, according to europol. the proceeds of crimes such as vat fraud, intra-eu trader-disappearing fraud and money laundering are often reinvested in the eu, and the criminals involved in these frauds have also found refuge there. as with all reports that serve the judiciary, the fight against corruption and crime, i voted for this one.
in writing. ‒ the council proposed the adoption of a strategic cooperation agreement between europol and the united arab emirates. europol has a clear operational need to cooperate with the united arab emirates. the country is playing an increasing role in the fight against organised crime, as it is becoming an increasingly important centre for economic and financial crime. proceeds from crimes such as vat fraud, intra-community disappearing trader fraud and money laundering are reinvested in the uae and key actors involved in these frauds have also found refuge here. the report of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs recommends that parliament give its consent to the conclusion of the strategic cooperation agreement, as it would help and strengthen the fight against financial fraud and contribute to international cooperation in the field of financial investigations and other relevant crimes. i voted for the motion.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the european parliament not objecting to the agreement between europol and the authorities of the united arab emirates providing for strategic cooperation in the prosecution of terrorism and other serious forms of international crime. i considered the fact that the focus of economic and financial crime - including money laundering, tax evasion, etc. - has shifted towards the gulf region in recent times. the commission should be able to provide the necessary information to the member states and to the commission in order to ensure that the criminal law is applied in a uniform manner. however, i am correct that the europol/eea agreement does not cover the exchange of personal data and therefore cannot raise concerns as regards the application of eu data protection standards and rules.
in writing. ‒ under the current council decision on europol, the council, after consulting the european parliament, is to authorise the conclusion of international cooperation agreements with third countries or international organisations. this proposal aims at the adoption of a strategic cooperation agreement between europol and the united arab emirates. it appears that europol has a clear operational need to cooperate with the united arab emirates. according to europol, the uae is playing an increasing role in the fight against organised crime as the country becomes an increasingly important centre for economic and financial crime. i voted in favor of the motion.
in writing. ‒ the energy union report provides a balanced overview of the steps that can bring europe closer to a european energy policy for consumers. the report confirms that the european energy policy aims to strengthen security of supply, increase energy efficiency and at affordable prices. this will require, where necessary, the construction of new infrastructure, further harmonisation of the market and enforcement of legislation. the report anticipates that the energy union can boost europe's international competitiveness and create new jobs through, for example, technological research and development, stimulating innovation and investments in energy efficiency. on the basis of the above, i voted in favour of the adoption of the report.
in writing. ‒ the energy union report provides a balanced overview of the steps that can bring europe closer to a european energy policy for consumers. the report confirms that the european energy policy aims to strengthen security of supply, increase energy efficiency and at affordable prices. this will require, where necessary, the construction of new infrastructure, further harmonisation of the market and enforcement of legislation. the report anticipates that the energy union can boost europe's international competitiveness and create new jobs through, for example, technological research and development, stimulating innovation and investments in energy efficiency. as a member of the hungarian people's party delegation, i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ the energy union report provides a balanced overview of the steps that can bring europe closer to a european energy policy for consumers. the report confirms that the european energy policy aims to strengthen security of supply, increase energy efficiency and at affordable prices. this will require, where necessary, the construction of new infrastructure, further harmonisation of the market and enforcement of legislation. the report anticipates that the energy union can boost europe's international competitiveness and create new jobs through, for example, technological research and development, stimulating innovation and investments in energy efficiency. as a member of the hungarian people's party delegation, i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ the energy union report provides a balanced overview of the steps that can bring europe closer to a european energy policy for consumers. the report confirms that the european energy policy aims to strengthen security of supply, increase energy efficiency and at affordable prices. this will require, where necessary, the construction of new infrastructure, further harmonisation of the market and enforcement of legislation. the report anticipates that the energy union can boost europe's international competitiveness and create new jobs through, for example, technological research and development, stimulating innovation and investments in energy efficiency. as a member of the hungarian people's party delegation, i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ the energy union report provides a balanced overview of the steps that can bring europe closer to a european energy policy for consumers. the report confirms that the european energy policy aims to strengthen security of supply, increase energy efficiency and at affordable prices. this will require, where necessary, the construction of new infrastructure, further harmonisation of the market and enforcement of legislation. the report anticipates that the energy union can boost europe's international competitiveness and create new jobs through, for example, technological research and development, stimulating innovation and investments in energy efficiency. as the shadow rapporteur of the european people's party, i voted in favour of the report and i am proud that it was adopted by a large majority.
in writing. ‒ the energy union report provides a balanced overview of the steps that can bring europe closer to a european energy policy for consumers. the document stresses that the european energy policy aims to strengthen security of supply, increase energy efficiency and at affordable prices. this will require, where necessary, the construction of new infrastructure, further harmonisation of the market and enforcement of legislation. the report anticipates that the energy union can boost europe's international competitiveness and create new jobs through, for example, technological research and development, stimulating innovation and investments in energy efficiency. as a member of the hungarian people's party delegation, i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ the energy union report provides a balanced overview of the steps that can bring europe closer to a european energy policy for consumers. the report confirms that the european energy policy aims to strengthen security of supply, increase energy efficiency and at affordable prices. this will require, where necessary, the construction of new infrastructure, further harmonisation of the market and enforcement of legislation. the report anticipates that the energy union can boost europe's international competitiveness and create new jobs through, for example, technological research and development, stimulating innovation and investments in energy efficiency. as a member of the hungarian people's party delegation, i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. there were a number of amendments to the report which would have made it substantially more balanced, but unfortunately these were not voted on, so i chose to abstain. if the objective was to provide european citizens with stable and cheap access to clean energy, the construction of the south stream gas pipeline through bulgaria should have been supported. nuclear power plants should not have been shut down either, because they produce electricity with zero carbon dioxide, and in fact, nuclear plants do not emit radioactive material into the atmosphere, but coal plants do. at the current technological level, renewables are not a viable alternative to conventional power plants, but they are locally important, of course. if we do not want to be left behind in the quest for clean and economical energy, it is worth studying the new results, the fourth generation nuclear reactor, which is already operational and can produce energy from the cheap by-products of uranium enrichment.
in writing. ‒ the energy union is one of the juncker commission's key declared strategic objectives. the report by the committee on industry, research and energy strongly supports both this and the key objectives to be achieved, such as the secure supply of cheap energy to european citizens, the elimination of energy poverty, competitive energy prices for the development of european industry, energy saving, the achievement of the ambitious environmental objectives previously announced, in particular the radical reduction of greenhouse gas emissions and the strong reduction of the eu's energy dependence. it takes account of previous decisions and declarations on this subject, addresses the main obstacles to the achievement of the energy union and proposes a european parliament resolution on a number of related issues, which may further guide the way in which the strategic objectives are to be achieved. i was pleased to vote in favour of the report as a demanding contribution to one of the union's main strategic objectives.
in writing. ‒ the energy union report provides a balanced overview of the steps that can bring europe closer to a european energy policy for consumers. the report confirms that the european energy policy aims to strengthen security of supply, increase energy efficiency and at affordable prices. this will require, where necessary, the construction of new infrastructure, further harmonisation of the market and enforcement of legislation. the report anticipates that the energy union can boost europe's international competitiveness and create new jobs, for example through technological research and development, stimulating innovation and investing in energy efficiency.
in writing. ‒ i believe that the concrete proposals contained in the motion for a resolution will bring us closer to the energy union, which is why i voted in favour of it. i agree that the energy union should adopt a common approach to achieving a fully integrated internal energy market, security of supply, the best use of the union's energy resources, reducing energy demand and greenhouse gas emissions. research and development and innovation should play a major role in this process. i believe that the energy union should be about people, not governments, who need to be provided with secure, sustainable and affordable energy. at present, some governments continue to support fossil or nuclear development for reasons visible or invisible, but the money for these should be used for renewable energy production. although nuclear energy is not fossil energy, safety issues, such as the storage of spent fuel, are encouraging many member states to switch to renewable energy. it should be noted that the switch to renewable energy is necessary not only for environmental reasons but also because it could save billions of euros globally.
in writing. ‒ the energy union report provides a balanced overview of the steps that can bring europe closer to a european energy policy for consumers. the report confirms that the european energy policy aims to strengthen security of supply, increase energy efficiency and at affordable prices. this will require, where necessary, the construction of new infrastructure, further harmonisation of the market and enforcement of legislation. the report anticipates that the energy union can boost europe's international competitiveness and create new jobs through, for example, technological research and development, stimulating innovation and investments in energy efficiency. as a member of the hungarian people's party delegation, i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ the energy union should adopt a common approach focusing on dimensions such as the achievement of a fully integrated internal energy market, security of supply, the best use of the union's energy resources, reducing energy demand, reducing greenhouse gases, building on renewables and a union-wide carbon market, and research and innovation with a view to becoming a leader in energy technology; stresses that the energy union should be centred on citizens, who should be provided with secure, sustainable and affordable energy. i voted in favour of the full report.
in writing. ‒ the report is a response to the commission communication 'achieving the 10% target for energy interconnection'. the report welcomes the achievement of the 10% target for energy interconnection. it stresses that the interconnection of energy networks is a prerequisite for the achievement of an integrated internal electricity market, which, if properly designed, can help europe to meet its climate objectives. i agree with the report that the lengthy permitting process makes it very difficult to build new high voltage lines. it is important for member states to facilitate faster procedures. the report reinforces the regional approach to market linkages. in the case of hungary, the electricity interconnection indicator is 29% , thus far above the 10% interconnection target , and therefore does not impose any new obligations on the country. i agree with the principles and the direction set out in the report and therefore voted in favour of adopting the report.
in writing. ‒ the own-initiative report is a response to the commission communication 'achieving the 10% target for energy interconnection'. the report welcomes the achievement of the 10% target for energy interconnection. the report emphasises that the interconnection of energy networks is a prerequisite for the achievement of an integrated internal electricity market, which, if properly designed, can help europe to meet its climate objectives. the report notes that the lengthy permitting procedure makes it very difficult to install new high voltage lines; and calls on member states to facilitate faster procedures. furthermore, the report reinforces the regional approach in the context of market coupling. in the case of hungary, the electricity interconnection indicator is 29% , thus far above the 10% interconnection target , and therefore does not impose any new obligations on the country. i agree with the principles and directions set out in the report, and as a member of the hungarian delegation to the people's party, i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ the own-initiative report is a response to the commission communication 'achieving the 10% target for energy interconnection'. the report welcomes the achievement of the 10% target for energy interconnection. the report emphasises that the interconnection of energy networks is a prerequisite for the achievement of an integrated internal electricity market, which, if properly designed, can help europe to meet its climate objectives. the report notes that the lengthy permitting procedure makes it very difficult to install new high voltage lines; and calls on member states to facilitate faster procedures. furthermore, the report reinforces the regional approach in the context of market coupling. in the case of hungary, the electricity interconnection indicator is 29% , thus far above the 10% interconnection target , and therefore does not impose any new obligations on the country. i agree with the principles and directions set out in the report, and as a member of the hungarian delegation to the people's party, i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ the own-initiative report is a response to the commission communication 'achieving the 10% target for energy interconnection'. the report welcomes the achievement of the 10% target for energy interconnection. the report emphasises that the interconnection of energy networks is a prerequisite for the achievement of an integrated internal electricity market, which, if properly designed, can help europe to meet its climate objectives. the report notes that the lengthy permitting procedure makes it very difficult to install new high voltage lines; and calls on member states to facilitate faster procedures. furthermore, the report reinforces the regional approach in the context of market coupling. in the case of hungary, the electricity interconnection indicator is 29% , thus far above the 10% interconnection target , and therefore does not impose any new obligations on the country. i agree with the principles and directions set out in the report, and as a member of the hungarian delegation to the people's party, i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ the own-initiative report is a response to the commission communication 'achieving the 10% target for energy interconnection'. the report welcomes the achievement of the 10% target for energy interconnection. the report emphasises that the interconnection of energy networks is a prerequisite for the achievement of an integrated internal electricity market, which, if properly designed, can help europe to meet its climate objectives. the report notes that the lengthy permitting procedure makes it very difficult to install new high voltage lines; and calls on member states to facilitate faster procedures. furthermore, the report reinforces the regional approach in the context of market coupling. in the case of hungary, the electricity interconnection indicator is 29% , thus far above the 10% interconnection target , and therefore does not impose any new obligations on the country. i agree with the principles and directions set out in the report, and as a member of the hungarian delegation to the people's party, i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ the own-initiative report is a response to the commission communication 'achieving the 10% target for energy interconnection'. the document welcomes the achievement of the 10% target for the interconnection of energy networks. it stresses that the interconnection of energy networks is a prerequisite for the achievement of an integrated internal electricity market, which, if properly designed, can help europe to meet its climate objectives. the long approval process makes it very difficult to build new high voltage lines. member states should therefore endeavour to facilitate more rapid procedures. the document also aims to strengthen the regional approach in the context of market integration. the electricity interconnection indicator for hungary is 29% , which is therefore well above the 10% interconnection target. so it's not a new liability for the country. i agree with the principles and directions set out in the report, and as a member of the hungarian delegation to the people's party, i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ the own-initiative report is a response to the commission communication 'achieving the 10% target for energy interconnection'. the report welcomes the achievement of the 10% target for energy interconnection. the report emphasises that the interconnection of energy networks is a prerequisite for the achievement of an integrated internal electricity market, which, if properly designed, can help europe to meet its climate objectives. the report notes that the lengthy permitting procedure makes it very difficult to install new high voltage lines; and calls on member states to facilitate faster procedures. furthermore, the report reinforces the regional approach in the context of market coupling. in the case of hungary, the electricity interconnection indicator is 29% , thus far above the 10% interconnection target , and therefore does not impose any new obligations on the country. i agree with the principles and directions set out in the report, and as a member of the hungarian delegation to the people's party, i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. unfortunately, this is not a very well-crafted report, but there are elements of fantasy in it, so i chose to abstain. in energy and energy networks, plans must be agreed over several decades. it is not the way to go, to make hasty decisions based on lobbying interests and political differences, ignoring the interests of citizens. the necessary network connections in terms of direction and capacity should be based on a serious analysis, as consumers and taxpayers should not be unnecessarily burdened. and they would bear the cost of the ambitious plans. and the expansion of networks towards uncertain external infrastructures threatens to collapse the system.
in writing. ‒ the report of the committee on industry, research and energy reflects in particular the european commission's communication achieving the 10% interconnection target for energy networks, which it welcomes as a positive step towards achieving the 10% interconnection target and the more efficient functioning of the internal eu electricity market. it considers network interconnection as a means of creating an internal energy market which allows the free flow of energy. it stresses that interconnection is a strategic principle which not only allows for a more efficient management of the inevitable disruptions, but also for the increasing integration of energy from renewable sources into the european energy system. it points out that a fully integrated internal market for electricity would increase safety and reduce electricity price fluctuations, saving european consumers an estimated eur 1240 billion per year by 2030. it recalls that pan-european interconnection could reduce electricity prices by at least eur 2 per megawatt hour and would allow europe to meet most of its electricity needs from renewable energy sources. i supported the adoption of the report.
in writing. ‒ the own-initiative report is a response to the commission communication 'achieving the 10% target for energy interconnection'. the report welcomes the achievement of the 10% target for energy interconnection. the report emphasises that the interconnection of energy networks is a prerequisite for the achievement of an integrated internal electricity market, which, if properly designed, can help europe to meet its climate objectives. the report notes that the lengthy permitting procedure makes it very difficult to install new high voltage lines; and calls on member states to facilitate faster procedures. furthermore, the report reinforces the regional approach in the context of market coupling. in the case of hungary, the electricity interconnection indicator is 29% , thus far above the 10% interconnection target , and therefore does not impose any new obligations on the country.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report, which contains proposals on an important part of the energy union. the report highlights that the 10% interconnection target for energy networks by 2020 is a useful target and an important step towards a common energy system. the report regrets that 12 member states, mainly on the periphery of the union, are not meeting the 10% target for electricity interconnection and thus remain largely isolated from the internal electricity market. i believe that this isolation is not conducive to the creation of an energy union. i share the view that in the medium term and up to 2030, there is a clear need for regions to agree on ambitious and evidence-based complementary interconnection targets. i agree that renewable energy, a sustainable energy architecture that leads to better energy efficiency and energy savings, and an internal energy market that allows the free flow of energy are important tools for a stable, secure, independent, inclusive, transparent and competitive energy system in the union. all of this creates high-quality jobs and wealth in a future-oriented, sustainable economy.
in writing. ‒ the own-initiative report is a response to the commission communication 'achieving the 10% target for energy interconnection'. the report welcomes the achievement of the 10% target for energy interconnection. the report emphasises that the interconnection of energy networks is a prerequisite for the achievement of an integrated internal electricity market, which, if properly designed, can help europe to meet its climate objectives. the report notes that the lengthy permitting procedure makes it very difficult to install new high voltage lines; and calls on member states to facilitate faster procedures. furthermore, the report reinforces the regional approach in the context of market coupling. in the case of hungary, the electricity interconnection indicator is 29% , thus far above the 10% interconnection target , and therefore does not impose any new obligations on the country. i agree with the principles and directions set out in the report, and as a member of the hungarian delegation to the people's party, i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ renewable energy, a sustainable energy architecture that leads to better energy efficiency and energy savings, and an internal energy market that allows the free flow of energy are important tools for a stable, secure, independent, inclusive, transparent and competitive energy system in the union, creating high quality jobs and wealth in a future-oriented, sustainable economy. i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ the european progress microfinance facility was originally set up to support growth and job creation and to combat social and financial exclusion. the newly adopted own-initiative report on the implementation of the instrument, which has been running as a pilot project since 2010, revealed a number of shortcomings. the project failed to achieve its main objective: the impact on job creation was lower than expected, despite the fact that without the microcredit many beneficiaries would have been completely excluded from the credit market. of all the enterprises supported by the facility, 44% were in operation for less than one year and only 56% were in operation the following year. the creditworthiness and entrepreneurial capacity of persons in long-term unemployment should not be overestimated when applying this instrument. the commission notes that the 2013 commission report on the implementation of the instrument is very general and does not contain any specifics.
in writing. ‒ the european progress microfinance facility , which receives financial contributions from the union and the european investment bank, is managed by the european investment fund (eif) and is expected to receive additional funding from private investors was originally set up to support growth and job creation and to combat social and financial exclusion. the newly adopted own-initiative report on the implementation of the instrument, which has been running as a pilot project since 2010, revealed a number of shortcomings. i voted for the people's party, with a few exceptions. it failed to achieve its main objective: the impact on job creation was smaller than expected, despite the fact that without microcredit many beneficiaries would have been completely excluded from the credit market. of all the enterprises supported by the facility, 44% were in operation for less than one year and only 56% were in operation the following year. the creditworthiness and entrepreneurial capacity of persons in long-term unemployment should not be overestimated when applying this instrument. the commission notes that the 2013 commission implementing report on the instrument is very general and does not contain any specifics. nevertheless, to include this tool in the solution to the migration crisis that emerged in 2015 is a very irresponsible, wishful thinking approach, given the skills and labour market competitiveness of migrants, their competencies and the complete lack of statistics and impact studies on this.
in writing. ‒ the european progress microfinance facility , which receives financial contributions from the union and the european investment bank, is managed by the european investment fund (eif) and is expected to receive additional funding from private investors was originally set up to support growth and job creation and to combat social and financial exclusion. the newly adopted own-initiative report on the implementation of the instrument, which has been running as a pilot project since 2010, revealed a number of shortcomings. i voted for the people's party, with a few exceptions. it failed to achieve its main objective: the impact on job creation was smaller than expected, despite the fact that without microcredit many beneficiaries would have been completely excluded from the credit market. of all the enterprises supported by the facility, 44% were in operation for less than one year and only 56% were in operation the following year. the creditworthiness and entrepreneurial capacity of persons in long-term unemployment should not be overestimated when applying this instrument. the commission notes that the 2013 commission implementing report on the instrument is very general and does not contain any specifics. nevertheless, to include this tool in the solution to the migration crisis that emerged in 2015 is a very irresponsible, wishful thinking approach, given the skills and labour market competitiveness of migrants, their competencies and the complete lack of statistics and impact studies on this.
in writing. ‒ the european progress microfinance facility , which receives financial contributions from the union and the european investment bank and is managed by the european investment fund (eif) and relies on additional funding from private investors was originally set up to support growth and job creation and to combat social and financial exclusion. the newly adopted own-initiative report on the implementation of the instrument, which has been running as a pilot project since 2010, revealed a number of shortcomings. i voted for the people's party, with a few exceptions. it failed to achieve its main objective: the impact on job creation was smaller than expected, despite the fact that without microcredit many beneficiaries would have been completely excluded from the credit market. of all the enterprises supported by the facility, 44% were in operation for less than one year and only 56% were in operation the following year. the creditworthiness and entrepreneurial capacity of persons in long-term unemployment should not be overestimated when applying this instrument. the commission notes that the 2013 commission implementing report on the instrument is very general and does not contain any specifics. nevertheless, to include this tool in the solution to the migration crisis that emerged in 2015 is a very irresponsible, wishful thinking approach, given the skills and labour market competitiveness of migrants, their competencies and the complete lack of statistics and impact studies on this.
in writing. ‒ progress microfinance is currently available in only 22 of the 28 member states. this is due to the different levels of development of european national economies, different market interests and different regulatory conditions. the progress microfinance facility has a social dimension and aims to facilitate access to micro-credit for the creation or promotion of micro-enterprises. progress is an important and effective tool for achieving the eu's employment and social objectives under the europe 2020 strategy. the progress tool helps people to (re) enter the labour market, unlock entrepreneurial potential, acquire new skills through training and mentoring, and gives people dignity by enabling them to take responsibility for their own destiny. in the light of the above, i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ the european progress microfinance facility , which receives financial contributions from the union and the european investment bank, is managed by the european investment fund (eif) and is expected to receive additional funding from private investors was originally set up to support growth and job creation and to combat social and financial exclusion. the newly adopted own-initiative report on the implementation of the instrument, which has been running as a pilot project since 2010, revealed a number of shortcomings. the new instrument failed to achieve its main objective of having a lower impact on job creation than expected, despite the fact that without the microcredit many beneficiaries would have been completely excluded from the credit market. of all the enterprises supported by the facility, 44% were in operation for less than one year and only 56% of the enterprises were in operation the following year. the creditworthiness and entrepreneurial capacity of persons in long-term unemployment should not be overestimated when applying this instrument. the commission notes that the 2013 commission implementing report on the instrument is very general and does not contain any specifics. in view of all this, to include this tool in the solution to the migration crisis that emerged in 2015 is a very irresponsible, wishful thinking approach, given the skills, labour market competitiveness and competences of migrants and the complete lack of statistics and impact studies on this.
in writing. ‒ the european progress microfinance facility which receives financial contributions from the union and the european investment bank, managed by the european investment fund (eif), and is expected to receive additional funding from private investors was originally set up to support growth and job creation and to combat social and financial exclusion. the newly adopted own-initiative report on the implementation of the instrument, which has been running as a pilot project since 2010, revealed a number of shortcomings. i voted for the people's party, with a few exceptions. it failed to achieve its main objective: its impact on job creation was less than expected. this is despite the fact that without microcredit many beneficiaries would have been completely excluded from the credit market. of all the enterprises supported by the facility, 44% were in operation for less than one year and only 56% were in operation the following year. the creditworthiness and entrepreneurial capacity of persons in long-term unemployment should not be overestimated when applying this instrument. the commission notes that the 2013 commission implementing report on the instrument is very general and does not contain any specifics. nevertheless, to include this tool in the solution to the migration crisis that emerged in 2015 is a very irresponsible, wishful thinking approach. this may be particularly true in the light of migrants' skills and labour market competitiveness, their competences and the complete lack of statistics and impact studies on this.
in writing. ‒ the european progress microfinance facility , which receives financial contributions from the union and the european investment bank and is managed by the european investment fund (eif) and relies on additional funding from private investors was originally set up to support growth and job creation and to combat social and financial exclusion. the newly adopted own-initiative report on the implementation of the instrument, which has been running as a pilot project since 2010, revealed a number of shortcomings. i voted for the people's party, with a few exceptions. it failed to achieve its main objective: the impact on job creation was smaller than expected, despite the fact that without microcredit many beneficiaries would have been completely excluded from the credit market. of all the enterprises supported by the facility, 44% were in operation for less than one year and only 56% were in operation the following year. the creditworthiness and entrepreneurial capacity of persons in long-term unemployment should not be overestimated when applying this instrument. the commission notes that the 2013 commission implementing report on the instrument is very general and does not contain any specifics. nevertheless, to include this tool in the solution to the migration crisis that emerged in 2015 is a very irresponsible, wishful thinking approach, given the skills and labour market competitiveness of migrants, their competencies and the complete lack of statistics and impact studies on this.
in writing. ‒ in 2010, the union established the progress microfinance facility for the period 2010 to 2016, with a total amount of eur 205 million, to provide europe's socially and financially disadvantaged people with a chance to create decent living conditions by facilitating access to micro-credit to set up or promote micro-enterprises. the employment and social committee report found that progress has proved to be an important and effective tool for achieving the eu's employment and social objectives under the europe 2020 strategy. the newly created firms generate a significant number of new jobs, and about 85% of these jobs are created within micro-enterprises. the report points out that micro-credit in europe should be seen primarily as a social policy tool to give people in difficult social situations a chance, as there are other support options available to promote smes and innovative ideas. it stresses the need to reconsider the eu definition of microcredit and adapt it to the current situation. finally, it proposes to continue the progress microcredit programme. i supported the adoption of the report.
in writing. ‒ the european progress microfinance facility , which receives financial contributions from the union and the european investment bank, is managed by the european investment fund (eif) and is expected to receive additional funding from private investors was originally set up to support growth and job creation and to combat social and financial exclusion. the newly adopted own-initiative report on the implementation of the instrument, which has been running as a pilot project since 2010, revealed a number of shortcomings. i voted for the people's party, with a few exceptions. it failed to achieve its main objective: the impact on job creation was smaller than expected, despite the fact that without microcredit many beneficiaries would have been completely excluded from the credit market. of all the enterprises supported by the facility, 44% were in operation for less than one year and only 56% were in operation the following year. the creditworthiness and entrepreneurial capacity of persons in long-term unemployment should not be overestimated when applying this instrument. the commission notes that the 2013 commission implementing report on the instrument is very general and does not contain any specifics. nevertheless, to include this tool in the solution to the migration crisis that emerged in 2015 is a very irresponsible, wishful thinking approach, given the skills and labour market competitiveness of migrants, their competencies and the complete lack of statistics and impact studies on this.
in writing. ‒ microfinance contributes to the achievement of the europe 2020 objectives, as microfinance can help people to escape poverty and unemployment, restore their dignity and enhance cohesion in communities by improving social inclusion and minimising social inequalities. i voted in favor of the motion.
in writing. ‒ in line with the epp guidelines, i voted in favour of the adoption of the non-legislative report. the debate on the powers of the european parliament and the council must be brought to an end, the adoption of fishing quotas and technical measures must be simplified and accelerated, and the range of scientific organisations involved in the preparation of the proposal must be widened. it is clear that the european union is forced to limit its sea fishing to the extent necessary to maintain marine fish stocks. 30% of the world's oceans are overfished, and marine fish stocks are in danger. the reasoned measures taken to maintain them have led to a continuous and significant decline in the amount of marine fish caught. the cfp should therefore pay much more attention to sustainable fisheries, i.e. aquaculture, and in particular freshwater fisheries. a significant part of the hungarian wetlands is located in natura 2000 areas. these fish farms do not represent any threat to the natural values of these areas. in fact, in many cases it is our closed systems of wetlands that have created and preserved unique associations of aquatic habitats. therefore, freshwater aquaculture should be given priority and maximum support from the union. moreover, this area should be freed from unnecessarily stringent and unnecessary sustainability standards that are justified only for marine fisheries.
in writing. ‒ the 2013 reform of the common fisheries policy included the objective of achieving maximum sustainable yield (msy) through an ecosystem-based approach. the primary means of achieving these objectives are technical measures and multiannual plans as safeguards . however, since 2009 very little progress has been made in the legislative documents on technical measures and multiannual plans. in the case of multiannual plans, this was due to an interinstitutional 'deadlock' caused by the inclusion of the allocation of fishing opportunities in the commission's legislative proposals for multiannual plans as part of the catch control rules, which led to differences of opinion in relation to article 43 tfeu. as regards technical measures, the difficulties arose from the need to align the legislation with the treaty of lisbon. the co-legislators must find a pragmatic solution to make rapid progress on the multiannual plans in the light of the case law of the european court of justice. in addition, effective participation of stakeholders in the preparation and implementation of multiannual plans should be enhanced. finally, the multiannual plans should be adopted as soon as possible. this avoids the regulation of long-term measures by means of discard plans, which by their nature should only contain transitional measures. i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ the 2013 reform of the common fisheries policy included the objective of achieving maximum sustainable yield (msy) through an ecosystem-based approach. the primary means of achieving these objectives are technical measures and multiannual plans as safeguards . however, since 2009 very little progress has been made in the legislative documents on technical measures and multiannual plans. i voted in favor of the motion.
it's a trick question. i'm speaking as a member of the people's party, madam representative. i'm not going to argue with what you said, i see a lot of things the same way. but do you think that the policy of hungarian prime minister viktor orbán, who is one of your party, of drawing hard borders, neither out nor in, and whoever enters, is thrown into prison or expelled from the country without even a chance of legal recourse, fits into the policy of the people's party?
madam president, officer, i have to go. i welcome the fact that the new security package finally focuses on the protection of the external borders. because it's now clear what the hungarian government has been saying since august: we can't deal with the migration problem within europe until we secure our external borders. this is also a condition for safeguarding the schengen system. of course, the protection of schengen borders is primarily the responsibility and task of the member states. we can maintain an area without internal borders as long as the external border is protected. this conviction guided the decision of the visegrad four when, on behalf of the friends of schengen, they renewed their commitment to the protection of the external borders. any proposal that strengthens and makes more effective the protection of the external borders, which promotes prevention and return, is therefore welcome. at the same time, of course, caution is needed in the elaboration of the details surrounding the sensitive issue of national sovereignty. because otherwise it could lead to a debate that is neither timely nor necessary in the current crisis, which is all the more urgently needed for concrete action at the external borders.
madam president, please. the schengen system is one of the european union's few real achievements, with the free movement of borders between the countries within the system. but schengen is also one of the biggest failures of the european union. as the vice president said, a million and a half migrants have arrived this year at the schengen borders that should have been protected, and he's talking about "they finally want to act" and "they need to stop the dangerous elements at the external border". not only must we stop the dangerous elements, but also the millions of economic migrants. and on the liberal side, there is the incredible phrase that if a country protects its national border, which is also schengen, it is national egoism, and they want to deny the right of the nation states to protect their borders, and they are also projecting an image of a "united states of europe", which we will prevent.
in writing. the problems of refugee arrivals and terrorist attacks have made it clear that national solutions, the refusal to cooperate, the shifting of responsibility will only bring trouble to the european community. we also see that if we want to maintain the european achievement of free movement, the schengen area, we must also take on a shared responsibility and guarantee for the protection of borders. i therefore welcome and consider the commission's proposal to set up a single european border and coast guard to be an important step forward. i am convinced that this is the only way to ensure that the control of people entering the union is carried out in a humane but effective manner at all the external borders of the union. i find it outrageous that some member states want to use this plan to maintain a misconception of national autonomy, and thus risk the security of other member states and of the citizens of the union. it is particularly disgusting that the hungarian government, which has been saying up to now that we need to protect our external borders more strongly, to guarantee security, is among them. it has once again become clear that the orbán government is doing everything it can to prevent the european institutions from acting effectively and unitedly on the issues of asylum, counter-terrorism and the protection of eu borders, only to then falsely point to 'brussels' as the cause of the problems.
madam president, please. the paris climate conference was a success, and an ambitious agreement was born. we're not talking about a two-degree upper limit on temperature rise, we're talking about a one and a half degree. but the question is, to what extent are the promises of the signatories of this document accountable or sanctioned under international law? let me give you an example: the implementation of this obviously depends on national decisions. if the united states next year has a republican president and a majority who are outspokenly opposed to president obama's climate policies, what will happen to the world's second largest polluter? they haven't adopted the kyoto protocol after all, so that's a fundamental question. and let me ask you another question: if the developed countries are supporting the developing countries, will hungary, as an eu member, support china, which is the second largest economy in the world?
mr. cañete bitzo, you said at dawn on sunday that today we celebrate, but tomorrow we must act. today, two days after that statement, we agree that it's time to act. but it is also very important and urgent for the eu. everything agreed by the negotiators in paris must be translated into the european union's own climate policy. less than two degrees, or one and a half degrees of climate change, will require raising our own targets, 40% energy efficiency, at least 30% renewable share. but the same five-year review mechanism needs to be transposed into european legislation, for example in the ets, where similar mechanisms will need to be introduced. and the question of implementation is a key question, not just for paris, but for the eu's climate policy. we still do not know how these eu objectives, which were set out a year and a half ago, will be translated into a binding argument at member state level, and we will not achieve anything without it. (the opponent has consented to answer a question marked with a blue card under article 162 (8) of the rules of procedure. )
it's a two-card answer. thank you for asking. we agree, of course, that in order to achieve the goals we set in paris and the union's climate policy, it is inevitable that we not only have to stop investing in fossil fuels, let alone public money, national or eu public money, but also that we have to get investments out of the fossil sector, investments that already exist, and therefore saving the industry. if we can't be efficient in this, we'll never achieve the goals we set.
it's a trick question. mr. deputy, i think that parliament is in a mood, in general, to be ambitious about these objectives. it is also true that europe needs to take much bigger steps regardless. but what do you think about the fact that the member countries can't screw this up with a bad energy mix? because the energy mix is a purely national competence.
in writing. the outcome of the paris climate summit has been welcomed by many people around the world in many ways in recent days. it is an undeniable fact that on 12 december 2015, the international community took a historic step in the fight against climate change. in paris, the global responsibility to avoid the catastrophic consequences of climate change became palpable. after paris, no one can ignore the fact of man-made global warming without serious consequences. since paris, the world has taken its future more seriously. the main objective of the climate agreement among the world's 195 countries is to keep the global average temperature rise well below 2 degrees celsius. but achieving this will present the international community with an unprecedented challenge. the operation of a system based on the voluntary commitment and regular review of emission reductions and the transparency and monitoring of national implementation still leaves us with many questions. the european parliament has a key role to play in monitoring this work and holding accountable those who are committed. the shortcomings of the convention can only be remedied by continuing to maintain the unprecedented international commitment that has now been established in the period ahead. finally, i would like to emphasise that particular attention should be paid to presenting the tasks of the climate agreement in an understandable way. we need to speak clearly and directly, because the transition to a low-carbon economy, the ecological recovery, requires profound changes on the part of all people.
mr. president, i also congratulate the authors. i told mrs dodds that this is not a report, it is a real manual on what to do in the european union. i can't say anything about the left side of politics except that if the figure is true, that 160 billion to 190 billion euros of tax is not paid by big companies, then i say that this is exactly the same as the entire annual budget of the union. well, governments, on the one hand, let this much go, and on the other hand, they're very tight-lipped when it comes to contributing to the public. but people want a europe, people want a social europe, and the answer is not so much yes, as yes, the taxation issue, the competence of the member states. the tax system was not ordained by god, it was ordained by men, and it can be changed. we need a common fiscal union, common customs duties, common levies, common taxation, and i have also touched on the question of vat, because it cannot be that in one country vat on food is zero and in another country it is 27%. one word, a hundred, to conclude: it cannot be that large companies pay less tax than small and medium-sized enterprises.
the wise confucius said thousands of years ago, he taught, if you cannot agree with someone on basic matters, do not forge common plans with them. in comparison, i see that the european union as a whole and the individual member states, both old and new member states, all want to cooperate with china, to conclude separate economic agreements. we'll come into this room and the meps from some of the countries will want to adopt a report tomorrow that is lecturing china on every page, instead of talking about, writing about how to bring our juncker plan into cooperation, to bring europe's economy into the one belt, one road programme with china's new silk road. i therefore propose to my colleagues that we, the old member states and the new member states, should all think about how we can work together, and not about how we can continue the thinking and the education of the former colonial world.
madam president, please. i congratulate mr belder on his success. the document clearly reflects the importance of the eu-china strategic relationship, particularly in the light of the global challenges we face on a daily basis. we have to find answers to all of them together, the way we did at the paris climate conference to save our planet. we must work closely with china, even if we have legitimate disagreements on a number of issues. one-party rule subordinates human rights to economic interests, religious freedom is severely restricted in tibet, national minorities including the uyghurs suffer severe persecution, the death penalty remains in force and freedom of speech despite constitutional provisions is also not respected. the report calls on china to meet its international obligations and to act responsibly and fairly in its neighbourhood relations with taiwan and the south china sea region... (the president cut the speaker off)
distinguished colleagues, distinguished officer! i am convinced that eu workers are looking for work and not for social benefits when they are exercising their right to free movement. you can only win with this right. the answer is not to reduce privilege, but to end abuse. with regard to the secondment directive, i would like to express my doubts as to why a recently adopted law should be revised already. whereas, for example, it took 80 million people with disabilities five years to get the european accessibility package through. there shouldn't be that much difference between a citizen and a citizen. finally, i would like to make it clear that equal pay for equal work in the same place can only be interpreted on the basis of equal rights. and the competitiveness of enterprises is undermined by such restrictions on the freedom of enterprises. i'd like to support the honorable member's ambitions, but i'd like to ask you to listen to the doubts of the members.
i want to thank you for keeping your promise to me and bringing this legislation to the floor within a year. the objective is clear: to remove barriers to the internal market in order to remove barriers to entry. however, i would point out that the range of those concerned is not exhaustive. the commissioner also rightly pointed out that after 2020 we will be talking about 120 million people affected, including disabled and elderly people, that is, one in four eu citizens will be affected. the public procurement directive is a regulation concerning eu funds, which is particularly important. it is also based on the convention on the rights of persons with disabilities, including general recommendation no 2 on accessibility. i would like to emphasise that for the first time, definitions of access have been introduced into eu law, and this provides a framework. i think we have a long way to go before it becomes law, but after five years, we can finally start doing something. and i would like to make one final comment: i would like to live the moment when it is not my disability, but the barriers that society has placed in front of me that are finally, once and for all, dismantled.
it's a two-card draw. i am very pleased that the honourable member has raised this issue. it is indeed one of the most important cases. although there is at least one ruling party in the ranks of the people's party - this is fidesz led by viktor orbán - which constantly stands out with its separate policies, its separate business with putin. i respectfully ask, how do you handle this within the people's party?
mr vice-chairman of the committee, ladies and gentlemen, every crisis is an opportunity. the migration crisis is also an opportunity for us to take the eu on board and put those things, those important values that we built the whole european union on, that we believe in, in the spotlight and use our common sense to solve the problem. that we are not controlled by events, but by events. i am convinced that if we bury our heads in the sand in this process, we will accomplish nothing but hinder our own clarity. i also believe that if in the process of solving a problem, if we hear disagreements, if we start pointing fingers at each other or even start blaming each other, we are taking the process in the direction of chaos. schengen must remain, for example, and more and more states are asking for the temporary reintroduction of border controls. what's wrong with protecting schengen by complying with eu law? what's good is that if they do enough, they'll be prosecuted for contempt of court, just like my country. i'm not sure. i don't know, man. i don't know the reasons, but contradictory speech and action are always harmful. i think we need strict, fair, enforceable and enforced rules. a shared solution that everyone can and wants to implement equally.
today, we can all see that the migration crisis, the refugee issue, is a real turning point in the history of europe, of the european union. but not because of the number of refugees, but because we have to face the fact that there are countries, governments and politicians who exploit the issue of refugees to create fear and hatred. they are pursuing populist policies whose sole purpose is to break up the european union and to revive the selfish and nationalistic tendencies that have so often put europe in danger. there are also those among europe's leaders who are not looking for real solutions to political, economic challenges, but are cooking their own political fire. when the president of the council talks about the internment of refugees, he is not serving, but destroying european unity. we who believe in europe must now show political strength and moral courage. we must firmly oppose far-right and populist politics, because one day we will wake up to the fact that europe is finished and there is nothing left but nationalisms hating each other. europe must be saved not from refugees, but from this populist politics.
even in this so-called high-level debate, which deals with the most important and topical issues of the european union, we are so pitifully few that mr juncker seems to be in the middle of it, either bored, lonely or afraid, or he has left, he has left anyway, so i ask his deputy the following. have the specialised bodies of the european union and the member states learned the lessons of the tragic terrorist attack in paris? how did the perpetrators get to europe? what data, information did the member states or the european union have on these perpetrators? have they acted professionally in terms of intelligence, prevention of terrorism, law enforcement and crime prevention? what should i have done? what is the european union doing to prevent further such tragic acts? the way forward is clearly not to eavesdrop and monitor citizens who have nothing to do with terrorist acts.
in writing. in recent weeks, representatives of some western governments have proposed the creation of a mini-schengen area, which would cover only a few, typically founding, member states. it is striking that the proposal would exclude from free movement the central and eastern european member states, which are the countries that most strictly adhere to the schengen agreement and have protected the union's external borders from uncontrolled immigration. central europe's commitment to schengen is demonstrated by the visegrad countries' joint patrols at the southern borders of the schengen area and the union, the serbian-hungarian and croatian-hungarian borders, and by the presence of more than 300 border guards at the borders of greece. the unilateral change of the schengen area is an unfair and absurd idea, which is an even worse response to a previous bad policy decision, and which clearly seeks to punish those member states which are effectively tackling illegal immigration. the free movement guaranteed by the schengen agreement is one of the european union's most important achievements, the dismantling or limitation of which would cause immeasurable economic damage to the entire continent. the reintroduction of border controls would not only make life more difficult for millions of european citizens, but would also cause serious damage to international transport, industry, trade or tourism. for all these reasons, we expect the european council to be the most resolute in its support for the preservation of the schengen system and the strict protection of the union's external borders.
in writing. ‒ the first president of the eba was appointed by the supervisory board of the eba for a five-year term of office following a call for candidates opened in 2011, in accordance with article 48 (2) of regulation (eu) no 1093/2010; whereas article 48 (4) of regulation (eu) no 1093/2010 provides that the supervisory board of the eba may extend the mandate of the president once, taking into account the assessment referred to in that provision, subject to confirmation by the european parliament; whereas on 8 september 2015 the supervisory board of the eba proposed to extend the mandate of andrea enria, the president-in-office of the eba, for a further five years and informed the european parliament accordingly; whereas on 17 november 2015 the committee on economic and monetary affairs heard andrea enria, the president-in-office of the eba, who made an opening statement and then answered questions from the members of the committee. approves the proposal to extend the term of office of mr andrea enria as president of the eba for a further period of five years and instructs its president to forward this decision to the council, the commission, the eba and the governments of the member states; in the light of the above, i have voted in favour of extending the term of office of the president of the european banking authority (eba).
in writing. ‒ regulation (eu) no 1093/2010 of the european parliament and of the council of 24 november 2010 established the european banking authority. its chairman, mr andrea enria, was appointed by the eba supervisory board for a five-year term following a call for tender opened in 2011. under that regulation, the supervisory board may extend the mandate of the chairperson once, subject to confirmation of that decision by parliament. by decision of 8 september, the supervisory board recommended the extension of the mandate of the incumbent chairperson. on 17 november, the economic and monetary committee heard andrea enria and recommended in its report that parliament confirm the decision of the supervisory board. i voted accordingly.
in writing. ‒ under regulation (eu) no 1093/2010, the supervisory board of the eba may, taking into account the assessment referred to in this provision extend the mandate of the chairperson once, subject to confirmation by the european parliament. the rapporteur, mr andrea enria, proposed to extend the term of office of the president of the eba for a further period of five years. i voted for it.
in writing. ‒ the first president of eiopa was appointed by the supervisory board of eiopa for a five-year term of office following a call for candidates opened in 2011, in accordance with article 48 (2) of regulation (eu) no 1094/2010; whereas article 48 (4) of regulation (eu) no 1094/2010 provides that the supervisory board of eiopa may extend the mandate of the president once, taking into account the evaluation referred to in this provision, subject to confirmation by the european parliament; whereas on 30 september 2015 the supervisory board of eiopa proposed to extend the mandate of the president-in-office of eiopa for a further five-year term of office and informed the european parliament accordingly; whereas on 17 november 2015 the committee on economic and monetary affairs heard the president-in-office of eiopa, mr gabriel bernardino, give an opening statement and answer questions from the members of the committee; approves the proposal to extend the term of office of mr gabriel bernardino, president of eiopa, for a further period of five years and instructs his president to forward this decision to the council, the commission, eiopa and the governments of the member states; in this context, i voted in favour of the report on the extension of the term of office of the president of the european insurance and occupational pensions authority (eiopa).
in writing. ‒ regulation (eu) no 1094/2010 of the european parliament and of the council of 24 november 2010 established the european insurance and occupational pensions authority. the eiopa's board of supervisors has appointed its chairman, mr gabriel bernardinot, following a call for tenders in 2011, for a five-year term of office. under that regulation, the supervisory board may extend the mandate of the chairperson once, subject to confirmation of that decision by parliament. by decision of 30 september, the supervisory board recommended the extension of the mandate of the incumbent chairperson. on 17 november, the economic and monetary committee heard mr bernardino and recommended in its report that parliament confirm the decision of the supervisory board. i voted accordingly.
in writing. ‒ regulation (eu) no 1094/2010 provides that the supervisory board of eiopa may, taking into account the assessment referred to in this provision extend the mandate of the chairperson once, subject to confirmation by the european parliament. the rapporteur, mr gabriel bernardino, proposed to extend the term of office of the president of eiopa for a further period of five years. i voted for it.
in writing. ‒ having regard to article 48 (4) of regulation (eu) no 1095/2010 of the european parliament and of the council of 24 november 2010 on the proposal of the board of supervisors of the european securities and markets authority (esma) to extend the term of office of the president of esma for a further five years (c8-0315/2015), establishing a european supervisory authority (european securities and markets authority), amending decision no 716/2009 and repealing commission decision 2009/77/ec (1), article 48 (4) of regulation (eu) no 1095/2010 provides that the board of supervisors may extend the term of office of the president once, subject to confirmation by the european parliament, taking into account the assessment referred to in [this provision]. on 24 september 2015, the supervisory board of esma recommended the extension of the term of office of steven maijoor, acting president of esma, for a further period of five years and informed the european parliament accordingly, and on 17 november 2015 the economic and monetary committee heard steven maijoor, acting president of esma, who made an opening statement and then answered questions from members of the committee. having regard to the proposal of the supervisory board to extend the term of office of steven maijoor, acting president of esma, for a further period of five years, approves it and instructs its president to forward this decision to the council, the commission, esma and the governments of the member states. in the light of the above, i voted in favour of the proposal.
in writing. ‒ regulation (eu) no 1095/2010 of the european parliament and of the council of 24 november 2010 established the european securities and markets authority. its chairman, steven maijoor, was appointed by the supervisory board of esma following a call for tenders in 2011 for a five-year term. under that regulation, the supervisory board may extend the mandate of the chairperson once, subject to confirmation of that decision by parliament. by decision of 24 september, the supervisory board recommended the extension of the mandate of the incumbent chairperson. on 17 november, the committee heard mr maijoor and recommended in its report that parliament confirm the decision of the supervisory board. i voted accordingly.
in writing. ‒ regulation (eu) no 1095/2010 provides that the supervisory board may, taking into account the evaluation referred to in this provision extend the mandate of the chairperson once, subject to confirmation by the european parliament. the rapporteur, mr steven maijoor, has proposed to extend the term of office of the president of esma for a further period of five years. i voted for it.
in writing. ‒ with today’s vote we approve the conclusion of the agreement on operational and strategic cooperation between europol and bosnia-herzegovina. this agreement has the objective of supporting and strengthening action and mutual cooperation in preventing and combating organised crime, terrorism and other forms of serious crime, through the exchange of operational, strategic or technical information, including personal data and classified information. we support today’s resolution, given that bosnia-herzegovina is a potential candidate state and a close neighbour of the union, with which bosnia-herzegovina has many links and exchanges.
in writing. operational and strategic cooperation between bosnia and herzegovina and the european police office (europol) is essential, as the authority of the state has not been restored to its previous level following the recent war, and organised crime is high. i voted in favour of the report, particularly as these criminal circles have also acquired significant positions in the eu, and therefore a coordinated action against them is very timely.
in writing. ‒ the council has presented a draft decision approving the europol agreement on operational and strategic cooperation between bosnia and herzegovina and the european police office (europol). under the current rules, the council has the power to give its consent, but it must consult parliament on this. in its report, the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs recommends that parliament approve the draft council decision. i voted in favour of the motion accordingly.
in writing. ‒ i did not take part in the vote on the agreement on operational and strategic cooperation between bosnia and herzegovina and the european police office (europol) because of the far-right rapporteur.
in writing. ‒ the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) was established to provide additional support to workers affected by the consequences of major structural changes in world trade. on 6 november, the commission adopted a proposal for a decision to mobilise the egf for ireland to support the reintegration into the labour market of workers made redundant by pwa international ltd and the reintegration into the labour market of 108 young people not in employment, education or training. the commission has concluded that the conditions for a financial contribution from the egf are met in the application, in accordance with the relevant provisions of the egf regulation. the personalised services for redundant workers comprise five types of measures: (i) career guidance, career planning and promotion, (ii) egf training aid, (iii) training and continuing education programmes, (iv) higher education programmes and (v) temporary grants. on the basis of the above, i voted in favour of the adoption of the proposal.
in writing. ‒ the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) was established to provide additional support to workers affected by the consequences of major structural changes in world trade. on 6 november, the commission adopted a proposal for a decision to mobilise the egf for ireland to support the reintegration into the labour market of workers made redundant by pwa international ltd and the reintegration into the labour market of 108 young people not in employment, education or training. this is the sixteenth application to be examined under the 2015 budget and is for a total of eur 442 293 from the egf for the benefit of ireland. the commission has concluded that the conditions for a financial contribution from the egf are met in the application, in accordance with the relevant provisions of the egf regulation. the personalised services for redundant workers comprise five types of measures: (i) career guidance, career planning and promotion, (ii) egf training aid, (iii) training and continuing education programmes, (iv) higher education programmes and (v) temporary grants. on the basis of the above, i voted in favour of the adoption of the proposal.
in writing. ‒ the european globalisation adjustment fund was established to provide additional support to workers affected by the consequences of major structural changes in world trade. i welcome the decision of the irish authorities to start implementing personalised services as early as 22 may 2015, well before the decision to award egf support for the proposed coordinated package, in order to provide workers with a rapid response. i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) was established to provide additional support to workers affected by the consequences of major structural changes in world trade. on 6 november, the commission adopted a proposal for a decision to mobilise the egf for ireland to support the reintegration into the labour market of workers made redundant by pwa international ltd and the reintegration into the labour market of 108 young people not in employment, education or training. this is the sixteenth application to be examined under the 2015 budget and a total of eur 442 293 from the egf is earmarked for ireland. the commission has concluded that the conditions for a financial contribution from the egf are met in the application, in accordance with the relevant provisions of the egf regulation. the personalised services for redundant workers comprise five types of measures: (i) career guidance, career planning and promotion, (ii) egf training aid, (iii) training and continuing education programmes, (iv) higher education programmes and (v) temporary grants. on the basis of the above, i voted in favour of the adoption of the proposal.
in writing. ‒ the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) was established to provide additional support to workers affected by the consequences of major structural changes in world trade. on 6 november, the commission adopted a proposal for a decision to mobilise the egf for ireland to support the reintegration into the labour market of workers made redundant by pwa international ltd and the reintegration into the labour market of 108 young people not in employment, education or training. this is the sixteenth application to be examined under the 2015 budget and is for a total of eur 442 293 from the egf for the benefit of ireland. the commission has concluded that the conditions for a financial contribution from the egf are met in the application, in accordance with the relevant provisions of the egf regulation. the personalised services for redundant workers comprise five types of measures: (i) career guidance, career planning and promotion, (ii) egf training aid, (iii) training and continuing education programmes, (iv) higher education programmes and (v) temporary grants. on the basis of the above, i voted in favour of the adoption of the proposal.
in writing. ‒ the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) was established to provide additional support to workers affected by the consequences of major structural changes in world trade. on 6 november, the commission adopted a proposal for a decision to mobilise the egf for ireland to support the reintegration into the labour market of workers made redundant by pwa international ltd and the reintegration into the labour market of 108 young people not in employment, education or training. this is the sixteenth application to be examined under the 2015 budget and is for a total of eur 442 293 from the egf for the benefit of ireland. the commission has concluded that the conditions for a financial contribution from the egf are met in the application, in accordance with the relevant provisions of the egf regulation. the personalised services for redundant workers comprise five types of measures: (i) career guidance, career planning and promotion, (ii) egf training aid, (iii) training and continuing education programmes, (iv) higher education programmes and (v) temporary grants. on the basis of the above, i voted in favour of the adoption of the proposal.
in writing. ‒ the european globalisation adjustment fund aims to provide support for workers affected by the consequences of major structural changes in world trade or made redundant as a result of the global financial and economic crisis and to support their reintegration into the labour market. ireland has submitted an application for a financial contribution from the egf following 108 redundancies at pwa international ltd, operating in the machinery, equipment, plant and equipment repair and commissioning sector. ireland plans to provide five types of measures to the dismissed workers subject to the aid: (i) career guidance, career planning and promotion, (ii) egf training aid, (iii) training and continuing education programmes, (iv) higher education programmes and (v) limited duration grants. the measures are expected to involve all the workers made redundant. in its report, the committee on budgets notes that the application does not fulfil the traditional eligibility criteria for the number of redundancies laid down in the egf regulation, and that it has been submitted on the basis of the intervention criterion under article 4 (2) of that regulation, which allows for derogation in exceptional cases. the report agrees with the european commission that the arguments presented by ireland justify the application of the 'exceptional circumstances' criterion and that ireland is therefore entitled to a financial contribution of eur 442 293 under that regulation and therefore recommends that parliament approve the decision of the european parliament and of the council on the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund following the request of ireland. i supported the motion.
in writing. ‒ the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) was established to provide additional support to workers affected by the consequences of major structural changes in world trade. on 6 november, the commission adopted a proposal for a decision to mobilise the egf for ireland to support the reintegration into the labour market of workers made redundant by pwa international ltd and the reintegration into the labour market of 108 young people not in employment, education or training. this is the sixteenth application to be examined under the 2015 budget and is for a total of eur 442 293 from the egf for the benefit of ireland. the commission has concluded that the conditions for a financial contribution from the egf are met in the application, in accordance with the relevant provisions of the egf regulation. the personalised services for redundant workers comprise five types of measures: (i) career guidance, career planning and promotion, (ii) egf training aid, (iii) training and continuing education programmes, (iv) higher education programmes and (v) temporary grants.
in writing. ‒ the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) was established to provide additional support to workers affected by the consequences of major structural changes in world trade. on 6 november, the commission adopted a proposal for a decision to mobilise the egf for ireland to support the reintegration into the labour market of workers made redundant by pwa international ltd and the reintegration into the labour market of 108 young people not in employment, education or training. this is the sixteenth application to be examined under the 2015 budget and is for a total of eur 442 293 from the egf for the benefit of ireland. the commission has concluded that the conditions for a financial contribution from the egf are met in the application, in accordance with the relevant provisions of the egf regulation. the personalised services for redundant workers comprise five types of measures: (i) career guidance, career planning and promotion, (ii) egf training aid, (iii) training and continuing education programmes, (iv) higher education programmes and (v) temporary grants. on the basis of the above, i voted in favour of the adoption of the proposal.
in writing. ‒ the european globalisation adjustment fund was established to provide additional support to workers affected by the consequences of major structural changes in world trade. on 6 november the commission adopted a proposal for a decision to mobilise the egf in favour of ireland. this is the sixteenth application to be examined under the 2015 budget and is for a total of eur 442 293 from the egf for the benefit of ireland. i voted in favor of the motion.
in writing. ‒ under regulation (eu) no 1143/2014 of the european parliament and of the council on invasive alien species, the commission is to adopt, by means of implementing acts, a list of invasive alien species of union concern. the list in the draft implementing regulation d041932/01 adopted by the commission has been criticised on several occasions by the competent national authorities, interested parties and the public. the environmental protection committee report states that these criticisms are justified in many respects: the list does not take into account species that are among the most harmful invasive alien species in europe. certain terrestrial plant and mammal species are eligible and a well-founded risk assessment is available but are not included in the list, as are some mammal species that are among the most rapidly spreading invasive alien species in europe in recent years, and plant species with a large range and rapid spread with significant and well-documented adverse effects on human health. on the other hand, the list includes species that do not have significant adverse impacts on biodiversity, ecosystem services, human health and the economy, or for which the measures to be taken would result in disproportionate costs. the committee on the environment, public health and food safety considers that the draft commission implementing regulation therefore exceeds the implementing powers provided for in regulation (eu) no 1143/2014 and therefore proposes that parliament's resolution calls on the commission to withdraw the draft implementing regulation and to submit a new draft. i voted for the report.
in writing. ‒ the european parliament raised an objection in its motion for a resolution to the list of invasive alien species threatening the union, and i supported this objection by voting in favour. this union list is fully binding and directly applicable in all member states and i therefore consider it of the utmost importance that it is properly drawn up. the proposal calls on the commission to withdraw its draft implementing regulation and to submit a new draft, as the draft exceeds the implementing powers set out in the related regulation. the process does not ensure that the methodology to be used in the risk assessment is applied uniformly by all member states, and therefore it cannot be ensured that member states use the same types of evidence and the same general standards. therefore, for example, the reasons for the inclusion of species in the union list may be based on political rather than scientific grounds. as we know, there are many invasive alien species in europe, and i agree that priority should be given to the regulation of those invasive alien species which are considered to be a threat to the union. the proposal states that an invasive species is considered to be of union concern if the extent of the damage caused by it in the member states concerned justifies the adoption of targeted measures applicable to the whole of the union, including member states not yet affected, even if it is unlikely that they will be affected.
in writing. ‒ the commission shall adopt, by means of implementing acts, a list of invasive alien species of union concern. since there are many invasive alien species, priority should be given to the regulation of those invasive alien species which are considered to be a danger to the union. i voted in favor of the motion.
in writing. ‒ the eu's gmo authorisation system is based on the precautionary principle. accordingly, the safety of genetically modified products should be ascertained before authorisation. a wide range of experts questioned the adequacy of the health safety studies on maize nk 603xt25. the risk assessment carried out shows the following deficiencies: the safety of the double-modified maize line nk603xt25 was established on the basis of the data from the single modifications. but in terms of agronomic and phenotypic characteristics, this genetically modified maize was different from its conventional counterpart. inconceivably, efsa did not consider any of the significant differences to be of such a degree as to require further studies. this and the disregard of the difference in composition between seeds and feed was confirmed by the efsa gmo panel. it should also be noted that longer-term animal feeding trials would have been necessary to establish that this product does not present a risk to human or animal health. the gm maize concerned is also resistant to herbicides containing the active substance glyphosate. therefore, during its cultivation, an increased use of these plant protection products may occur, which subsequently increases the level of residues in the crop. it is also important to note that in 2015, the who classified the herbicide glyphosate as 'probably carcinogenic to humans'. in view of all this, i voted in favour of the parliament's objection to the authorisation of genetically modified maize nk 603xt25.
in writing. ‒ the eu's gmo authorisation system is based on the precautionary principle. accordingly, the safety of genetically modified products should be ascertained before authorisation. a wide range of experts questioned the adequacy of the health safety studies on nk 603 x t25 maize. the risk assessment carried out shows the following deficiencies: the safety of the double-modified maize line nk603xt25 was established on the basis of the data from the single modifications. but in terms of agronomic and phenotypic characteristics, this genetically modified maize was different from its conventional counterpart. inconceivably, efsa did not consider any of the significant differences to be of such a degree as to require further studies. this and the disregard of the difference in composition between seeds and feed was confirmed by the efsa gmo panel. it should also be noted that longer-term animal feeding trials would have been necessary to establish that this product does not present a risk to human or animal health. the gm maize concerned is also resistant to herbicides containing the active substance glyphosate. therefore, during its cultivation, increased use of these plant protection products may occur, which subsequently increases the residual levels of the crop. it is also important to note that the herbicide glyphosate was classified as 'probably carcinogenic to humans' by the who in 2015. in view of all this, i voted in favour of the parliament's objection to the authorisation of genetically modified maize nk 603 x t25.
in writing. ‒ the eu's gmo authorisation system is based on the precautionary principle. accordingly, the safety of genetically modified products should be ascertained before authorisation. a wide range of experts questioned the adequacy of the health safety studies on nk 603 x t25 maize. the risk assessment carried out shows the following deficiencies: the safety of the double-modified maize line nk603xt25 was established on the basis of the data from the single modifications. however, in terms of agronomic and phenotypic characteristics, this genetically modified maize was different from its conventional counterpart. inconceivably, efsa did not consider any of the significant differences to be of such a degree as to require further studies. this and the disregard of the difference in composition between seeds and feed was confirmed by the efsa gmo panel. it should also be noted that longer-term animal feeding trials would have been necessary to establish that this product does not present a risk to human or animal health. the gm maize concerned is also resistant to herbicides containing the active substance glyphosate. therefore, during its cultivation, increased use of these plant protection products may occur, which subsequently increases the residual levels of the crop. it is also important to note that the herbicide glyphosate was classified as 'probably carcinogenic to humans' by the who in 2015. in view of all this, i voted in favour of the parliament's objection to the authorisation of genetically modified maize nk 603 x t25.
in writing. ‒ the eu's gmo authorisation system is based on the precautionary principle. accordingly, the safety of genetically modified products should be ascertained before authorisation. a wide range of experts questioned the adequacy of the health safety studies on nk 603 x t25 maize. the risk assessment carried out shows the following deficiencies: the safety of the double-modified maize line nk603xt25 was established on the basis of the data from the single modifications. but in terms of agronomic and phenotypic characteristics, this genetically modified maize was different from its conventional counterpart. inconceivably, efsa did not consider any of the significant differences to be of such a degree as to require further studies. this and the disregard of the difference in composition between seeds and feed was confirmed by the efsa gmo panel. it should also be noted that longer-term animal feeding trials would have been necessary to establish that this product does not present a risk to human or animal health. the gm maize concerned is also resistant to herbicides containing the active substance glyphosate. therefore, during its cultivation, increased use of these plant protection products may occur, which subsequently increases the residual levels of the crop. it is also important to note that the herbicide glyphosate was classified as 'probably carcinogenic to humans' by the who in 2015. in view of all this, i voted in favour of the parliament's objection to the authorisation of genetically modified maize nk 603 x t25.
in writing. ‒ the eu's gmo authorisation system is based on the precautionary principle. accordingly, the safety of genetically modified products should be ascertained before authorisation. a wide range of experts questioned the adequacy of the health safety studies on maize nk 603xt25. the risk assessment carried out shows the following deficiencies: the safety of the double-modified maize line nk603xt25 was established on the basis of the data from the single modifications. but in terms of agronomic and phenotypic characteristics, this genetically modified maize was different from its conventional counterpart. inconceivably, efsa did not consider any of the significant differences to be of such a degree as to require further studies. this and the disregard of the difference in composition between seeds and feed was confirmed by the efsa gmo panel. it should also be noted that longer-term animal feeding trials would have been necessary to establish that this product does not present a risk to human or animal health. the gm maize concerned is also resistant to herbicides containing the active substance glyphosate. therefore, during its cultivation, an increased use of these plant protection products may occur, which subsequently increases the level of residues in the crop. it is also important to note that in 2015, the who classified the herbicide glyphosate as 'probably carcinogenic to humans'. in view of all this, i voted in favour of the parliament's objection to the authorisation of genetically modified maize nk 603xt25.
in writing. ‒ on 17 may 2010, monsanto europe sa submitted to the competent authority of the netherlands an application to place on the market foods, food ingredients, and feed containing, consisting of, or produced from nk603 × t25 maize. the commission granted an authorisation by commission implementing decision (eu) 2015/2279 on 4 december 2015 for this maize containing the protein cp4epsps, as described in the application, which confers resistance to glyphosate-containing herbicides, and the protein pat, which confers resistance to glufosinate-ammonium-containing herbicides. however, on 20 march 2015, the international agency for research on cancer classified glyphosate as a substance likely to cause cancer in humans. the report by the committee on the environment recommends that parliament should state that all implementing decisions authorising the placing on the market of products containing gmos adopted in accordance with the current, malfunctioning regulation (ec) no 1829/2003 should be suspended until a new regulation is adopted under the tfeu. at the same time, it invites the commission to submit a new legislative proposal to amend regulation (ec) no 1829/2003 taking into account the concerns often expressed by member states that are not only related to the risks posed by gmos to health or the environment. i voted for the resolution.
in writing. other i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution on the refusal to place on the market products containing, consisting of or produced from genetically modified maize, for two reasons. i supported it, firstly, because i consider that the implementing decision in question (and its drafting) are not in conformity with union law. secondly, because it is a genetically modified plant that the international agency for research on cancer, the who cancer agency, has identified as resistant to the potentially carcinogenic glyphosate. this is dangerous for human and animal health because it encourages the use of herbicides containing glyphosate, which can be stored in the plant if used incorrectly. i also think it is important to note that this case shows a systemic flaw, as the european parliament has repeatedly taken a position on genetically modified food and feed in order to protect the health of its electorate and the environment. i think it is right that the commission should take these resolutions into account. the current approval system for genetically modified food and feed does not function properly and needs to be corrected.
in writing. ‒ all implementing decisions authorising the placing on the market of products containing, consisting of or produced from genetically modified organisms adopted in accordance with the current, malfunctioning regulation (ec) no 1829/2003 should be suspended until a new regulation is adopted under the treaty on the functioning of the european union. i supported the report.
in writing. ‒ the proposals in the report reflect the determination of both the european parliament and the european people to prevent companies from jumping from one country to another and reducing their tax liabilities to almost zero through legislative changes. the luxleaks scandal revealed exactly how much tax companies were getting away with by avoiding paying money that could have been used to build schools, hospitals, or to reduce the national debt. corporate tax avoidance costs national budgets billions of euros a year, creates unequal competition between companies and undermines europeans' trust in the state and government. i believe that the swift implementation of the measures proposed by parliament and the oecd would not only make national tax collection more efficient, but would also open up the market to competition and reduce the cost of compliance for companies. i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, as the proposals it contains reflect the determination of both the european parliament and the european people to prevent the shift of taxation from one country to another by companies to almost zero, through legislative changes. the luxleaks scandal revealed exactly how much tax companies were getting away with by avoiding paying money that could have been used to build schools, hospitals, or to reduce the national debt. corporate tax avoidance costs national budgets billions of euros a year, creates unequal competition between companies and undermines europeans' trust in the state and government. i believe that the rapid implementation of the measures proposed by parliament and the oecd would not only make national tax collection more efficient all at once, but would also make market competition fairer and reduce the cost of complying with the legislation for companies.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, as the proposals it contains reflect the determination of both the european parliament and the european people to prevent the shift of taxation from one country to another by companies to almost zero, through legislative changes. the luxleaks scandal revealed exactly how much tax companies were getting away with by avoiding paying money that could have been used to build schools, hospitals, or to reduce the national debt. corporate tax avoidance costs national budgets billions of euros a year, creates unequal competition between companies and undermines europeans' trust in the state and government. i believe that the rapid implementation of the measures proposed by parliament and the oecd would not only make national tax collection more efficient all at once, but would also make market competition fairer and reduce the cost of complying with the legislation for companies.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, as the proposals it contains reflect the determination of both the european parliament and the european people to prevent the shift of taxation from one country to another by companies to almost zero, through legislative changes. the luxleaks scandal revealed exactly how much tax companies were getting away with by avoiding paying money that could have been used to build schools, hospitals, or to reduce the national debt. corporate tax avoidance costs national budgets billions of euros a year, creates unequal competition between companies and undermines europeans' trust in the state and government. i believe that the rapid implementation of the measures proposed by parliament and the oecd would not only make national tax collection more efficient all at once, but would also make market competition fairer and reduce the cost of complying with the legislation for companies.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the doodsniedermayer report, which shows the determination of the european parliament and the european people to prevent companies from reducing their tax liabilities to almost zero through legislative changes. the luxleaks scandal revealed exactly how much tax companies were getting away with by avoiding paying money that could have been used to build schools, hospitals, or to reduce the national debt. corporate tax avoidance costs national budgets billions of euros a year, creates unequal competition between companies and undermines europeans' trust in the state and government. i believe that the swift implementation of the measures proposed by parliament and the oecd would not only make national tax collection more efficient, but would also make market competition fairer and reduce the cost of compliance for companies.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report. the proposals in the report reflect the will of the european parliament and of european citizens to bring about legislative changes that will finally put an end to the leapfrogging of companies from one country to another, reducing their tax liabilities to almost zero. the luxleaks scandal revealed exactly how much tax companies were getting away with by avoiding paying money that could have been used to build schools, hospitals, or to reduce the national debt. corporate tax avoidance costs national budgets billions of euros a year, creates unequal competition between companies and undermines europeans' trust in the state and government. i believe that the rapid implementation of the measures proposed by parliament and the oecd would not only make national tax collection more efficient and fairer, but would also reduce the cost of compliance for companies. for these reasons, i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, as the proposals it contains reflect the determination of both the european parliament and the european people to prevent the shift of taxation from one country to another by companies to almost zero, through legislative changes. the luxleaks scandal revealed exactly how much tax companies were getting away with by avoiding paying money that could have been used to build schools, hospitals, or to reduce the national debt. corporate tax avoidance costs national budgets billions of euros a year, creates unequal competition between companies and undermines europeans' trust in the state and government. i believe that the rapid implementation of the measures proposed by parliament and the oecd would not only make national tax collection more efficient all at once, but would also make market competition fairer and reduce the cost of complying with the legislation for companies.
in writing. ‒ the report of the economic and monetary committee, drawing partly on the draft report of the special committee on tax evaluations and other measures similar in nature or effect and partly on the devastating and increasingly damaging practice of aggressive tax planning, concludes that the corporate tax policies of the member states should be made transparent, harmonised and approximated in order to mitigate the losses caused by corporate tax avoidance. it therefore proposes that parliament invite the commission to submit one or more legislative proposals to parliament by the end of june 2016. it makes recommendations on the content of these legislative proposals, which are set out in detail in the annex to the report. i supported the report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the transparency, harmonisation and approximation of corporate tax policies in the european union. the reporting agents correctly pointed out that the tax assessment system, in addition to being lawfully used, gives rise to abuse and distortion of competition. i agreed with the finding that legislative action at union level is needed to improve the transparency, consistency and convergence of corporate tax policies. recommendations to achieve these, such as public country-by-country reporting by multinational companies, the development of a 'good tax practice' label for companies, mandatory reporting of new tax measures, automatic exchange of information on tax rulings or the introduction of a common consolidated corporate tax base, would all provide an effective solution to the unsustainable situation.
in writing. ‒ recent experience shows that member states cannot act alone against aggressive tax planning. the fact that we have a theoretical single market within the european union requires concerted action. the rapporteur believes that, while respecting the sovereignty of the member states in relation to tax policy, there is a need for eu legislative measures to ensure transparency, harmonisation and convergence of eu corporate tax policies. i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ cooperation between the european union and china has a history of 40 years. their strategic relations were established in 1975, a trade and cooperation agreement was signed in 1985, and since then the eu has continuously supported china's sustainable development by strengthening its partnership on political, economic and social reforms. i voted in favour of the report as it reflects the high importance of bilateral strategic relations in addressing global issues such as global and regional security, dealing with the economic crisis, energy security, the prevention of the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction and nuclear weapons, climate change, the promotion of democracy and human rights, and the fight against organised crime and terrorism. at the same time, i consider it important that the decision calls on the chinese authorities to respect their international commitments in the field of the rule of law and human rights.
in writing. ‒ the eu-china cooperation has a history of 40 years. their strategic relations were established in 1975, a trade and cooperation agreement was signed in 1985, and since then the eu has continuously supported china's sustainable development by strengthening its partnership on political, economic and social reforms. i voted in favour of the belder report, as it reflects the paramount importance of bilateral strategic relations in addressing global issues such as global and regional security, economic crisis management, energy security, non-proliferation of weapons of mass destruction and nuclear weapons, climate change, the promotion of democracy and human rights, and the fight against organised crime and terrorism. at the same time, i consider it important that the resolution calls on the chinese authorities to respect their international commitments on the rule of law and human rights, in particular the protection of freedom of religion, freedom of expression and freedom of the media, since a genuine strategic cooperation cannot be without these values. as was demonstrated at the paris climate summit, the two sides are capable of working together. the same is to be expected with regard to the fundamental principles governing the eu's foreign policy.
in writing. ‒ the eu-china cooperation has a history of 40 years. their strategic relations were established in 1975, a trade and cooperation agreement was signed in 1985, and since then the eu has continuously supported china's sustainable development by strengthening its partnership on political, economic and social reforms. i voted in favour of the belder report, as it reflects the paramount importance of bilateral strategic relations in addressing global issues such as global and regional security, economic crisis management, energy security, non-proliferation of weapons of mass destruction and nuclear weapons, climate change, the promotion of democracy and human rights, and the fight against organised crime and terrorism. at the same time, i consider it important that the resolution calls on the chinese authorities to respect their international commitments on the rule of law and human rights, in particular the protection of freedom of religion, freedom of expression and freedom of the media, since a genuine strategic cooperation cannot be without these values. as was demonstrated at the paris climate summit, the two sides are capable of working together. the same is to be expected with regard to the fundamental principles governing the eu's foreign policy.
in writing. ‒ the eu-china cooperation has a history of 40 years. their strategic relations were established in 1975, a trade and cooperation agreement was signed in 1985, and since then the eu has continuously supported china's sustainable development by strengthening its partnership on political, economic and social reforms. i voted in favour of the belder report, as it reflects the paramount importance of bilateral strategic relations in addressing global issues such as global and regional security, dealing with the economic crisis, energy security, the prevention of the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction and nuclear weapons, climate change, the promotion of democracy and human rights, and the fight against organised crime and terrorism. i also consider it important that the resolution calls on the chinese authorities to respect their international commitments on the rule of law and human rights, in particular the freedom of religion, freedom of expression and freedom of the media, and to respect the human and religious rights of tibetans, since a genuine strategic cooperation cannot be without these values. as was demonstrated at the paris climate summit, the two sides are capable of working together. the same is to be expected with regard to the fundamental principles governing the eu's foreign policy.
in writing. ‒ in asia and the pacific, china and taiwan are also important economic partners of the eu, and i therefore welcome the significant improvement in china-taiwan relations and a bilateral investment agreement between the eu and taiwan, given that at regional level taiwan is the best gateway and springboard to china for eu businesses, and that several states, including the people's republic of china, have already concluded such (de facto) agreements with taiwan. the commission is also pleased that china has accepted taiwan's participation in certain un organisations (who, icao) and expresses its concern at the chinese government's reaffirmation of the 2005 anti-secession law, which allows for the use of military means in the event of taiwan's declaration of independence. disputes concerning china-taiwan relations should be settled by peaceful means in accordance with international law. the meeting of senior officials from both sides of the taiwan strait on 23 may 2015 in kinmen island was a hopeful step, the third official meeting between chinese and taiwanese leaders responsible for china-taiwan relations; supports initiatives that develop china-taiwan relations in a peaceful manner. i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ the eu-china cooperation has a history of 40 years. their strategic relations were established in 1975, a trade and cooperation agreement was signed in 1985, and since then the eu has continuously supported china's sustainable development by strengthening its partnership on political, economic and social reforms. i voted in favour of the belder report, as it reflects the high importance of bilateral strategic relations in addressing issues such as global and regional security, economic crisis management, energy security, non-proliferation of weapons of mass destruction and nuclear weapons, climate change, the promotion of democracy and human rights, and the fight against organised crime and terrorism. at the same time, i consider it important that the resolution calls on the chinese authorities to respect their international commitments on the rule of law and human rights, in particular the protection of freedom of religion, freedom of expression and freedom of the media, since a genuine strategic cooperation cannot be without these values. as was demonstrated at the paris climate summit, the two sides are capable of working together. the same can therefore be expected with regard to the fundamental principles governing the eu's foreign policy.
in writing. ‒ the eu-china cooperation has a history of 40 years. their strategic relations were established in 1975 and a trade and cooperation agreement was signed in 1985. since then, the eu has continued to support china's sustainable development by strengthening its partnership on political, economic and social reforms. i voted in favour of the belder report, which reflects the high importance of bilateral strategic relations. it addresses global issues such as global and regional security, the management of the economic crisis, energy security, the prevention of the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction and nuclear weapons, climate change, the promotion of democracy and human rights, and the fight against organised crime and terrorism. at the same time, i consider it important that the resolution calls on the chinese authorities to respect their international commitments in the field of the rule of law and human rights, in particular to ensure freedom of religion, freedom of expression and freedom of the media. a genuine strategic partnership cannot be without these values. as was demonstrated at the paris climate summit, the two sides are capable of working together. the same is to be expected with regard to the fundamental principles governing the eu's foreign policy.
in writing. ‒ the report by the foreign affairs committee, on the occasion of the 40th anniversary of diplomatic relations between the european union and china, looks back at the state of bilateral relations, analyses strategic issues, assesses areas where progress has been made and tackles problems that have proved insoluble so far. it addresses issues of strategic partnership, china's internal situation and problems, its foreign and military policy aspirations, the human rights situation, and, as a special issue, china-taiwan relations. the report proposes that the european parliament take a position on these issues, thereby setting the direction for the future development of eu-china relations. i supported the report.
in writing. ‒ the eu-china cooperation has a history of 40 years. their strategic relations were established in 1975, a trade and cooperation agreement was signed in 1985, and since then the eu has continuously supported china's sustainable development by strengthening its partnership on political, economic and social reforms. the belder report, reflecting the high importance of bilateral strategic relations in addressing global issues such as global and regional security, economic crisis management, energy security, non-proliferation of weapons of mass destruction and nuclear weapons, climate change, the promotion of democracy and human rights, and the fight against organised crime and terrorism. at the same time, i consider it important that the resolution calls on the chinese authorities to respect their international commitments on the rule of law and human rights, in particular the protection of freedom of religion, freedom of expression and freedom of the media, since a genuine strategic cooperation cannot be without these values. as was demonstrated at the paris climate summit, the two sides are capable of working together. the same is to be expected with regard to the fundamental principles governing the eu's foreign policy.
in writing. ‒ the eu-china cooperation has a history of 40 years. their strategic relations were established in 1975, a trade and cooperation agreement was signed in 1985, and since then the eu has continuously supported china's sustainable development by strengthening its partnership on political, economic and social reforms. i voted in favour of the belder report as it reflects the high importance of bilateral strategic relations in addressing global issues such as global and regional security, economic crisis management, energy security, non-proliferation of weapons of mass destruction and nuclear weapons, climate change, the promotion of democracy and human rights, and the fight against organised crime and terrorism. at the same time, i consider it important that the resolution calls on the chinese authorities to respect their international commitments on the rule of law and human rights, in particular the protection of freedom of religion, freedom of expression and freedom of the media, since a genuine strategic cooperation cannot be without these values. as was demonstrated at the paris climate summit, the two sides are capable of working together. the same is to be expected with regard to the fundamental principles governing the eu's foreign policy.
in writing. ‒ i see that the eu as a whole and the member states individually, everyone wants to cooperate with china, to make economic agreements. unfortunately, this willingness to cooperate is not reflected enough in the report, and in many places we are lecturing china, we are not in the right style to address the issue. unfortunately, that did not prevent me from voting in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ the world is currently dealing with a humanitarian crisis on a scale never seen before. the duration and severity of these crises are also unprecedented. as a result, there are now more refugees and internally displaced persons than there have been since world war ii. in may 2016, the first humanitarian summit will be held in istanbul, at the initiative of un secretary-general ban ki-moon, with the aim of transforming the current humanitarian system to make it more effective and adapted to new challenges. the report aims to provide clear guidance on this, in particular with regard to food security, population growth and climate change. in addition to reducing vulnerability and managing risk, the report places a strong emphasis on transformation through innovation and making finance more transparent. the report calls for the adoption of a five-year roadmap, including political commitments on development, as the final document of the conference.
in writing. ‒ the world is currently dealing with a humanitarian crisis on a scale never seen before. the duration and severity of these crises are also unprecedented. as a result, there are now more refugees and internally displaced persons than there have been since world war ii. in may 2016, the first humanitarian summit will be held in istanbul, at the initiative of un secretary-general ban ki-moon, with the aim of transforming the current humanitarian system to make it more effective and adapted to new challenges. the report aims to provide clear guidance on this, in particular with regard to food security, population growth and climate change. in addition to reducing vulnerability and managing risk, the report places a strong emphasis on transformation through innovation and making finance more transparent. the report calls for the adoption of a five-year roadmap, including political commitments on development, as the final document of the conference.
in writing. ‒ the world is currently dealing with a humanitarian crisis on a scale never seen before. the duration and severity of these crises are also unprecedented. as a result, there are now more refugees and internally displaced persons than there have been since world war ii. in may 2016, the first humanitarian summit will be held in istanbul, at the initiative of un secretary-general ban ki-moon, with the aim of transforming the current humanitarian system to make it more effective and adapted to new challenges. the report aims to provide clear guidance on this, in particular with regard to food security, population growth and climate change. in addition to reducing vulnerability and managing risk, the report places a strong emphasis on transformation through innovation and making finance more transparent. the report calls for the adoption of a five-year roadmap, including political commitments on development, as the final document of the conference.
in writing. ‒ the world is currently dealing with a humanitarian crisis on a scale never seen before. the duration and severity of these crises are also unprecedented. as a result, there are now more refugees and internally displaced persons than there have been since world war ii. in may 2016, the first humanitarian summit will be held in istanbul, at the initiative of un secretary-general ban ki-moon, with the aim of transforming the current humanitarian system to make it more effective and adapted to new challenges. the report aims to provide clear guidance on this, in particular with regard to food security, population growth and climate change. in addition to reducing vulnerability and managing risk, the report places a strong emphasis on transformation through innovation and making finance more transparent. the report calls for the adoption of a five-year roadmap, including political commitments on development, as the final document of the conference.
in writing. ‒ the world is currently dealing with a humanitarian crisis on a scale never seen before. the duration and severity of these crises are also unprecedented. as a result, there are now more refugees and internally displaced persons than there have been since world war ii. in may 2016, the first humanitarian summit will be held in istanbul, at the initiative of un secretary-general ban ki-moon, with the aim of transforming the current humanitarian system, making it more effective and adapted to new challenges. the report aims to provide clear guidance on this, in particular with regard to food security, population growth and climate change. in addition to reducing vulnerability and managing risk, the report places a strong emphasis on transformation through innovation and making finance more transparent. the report calls for the adoption of a five-year plan, including political commitments in the field of development, as the final document of the conference.
in writing. ‒ as today's report shows, there is an unprecedented need for humanitarian assistance worldwide. the number of people in need has reached an unprecedented level. so when we're discussing how to help, we can only think in terms of broad partnerships. my personal experience is that the middle east is one of the focal points of aid today. in the refugee camps in iraq, i was struck by the fact that the eu did not build on the capacities and infrastructure of local church communities and their aid organisations in carrying out projects. well-known organisations such as aid to the church in need have implemented projects in the region worth over €40 million. they have a total of 38 different programs running in iraq alone, and over 100 in syria. these successfully provide basic needs for hundreds of thousands of people, such as housing, education and employment. and the reason these results are worth looking at is because these are the two countries where the current wave of immigration started and is still going to europe. the union must now make a huge effort to give the most deprived a perspective in their own country. it's in the interest of the persecuted. the union should therefore amend its aid rules to ensure that the most affected, including persecuted religious minorities, are included in aid projects. it is noteworthy that today's report is a rethinking of international humanitarian aid, which is why i voted in favour of it.
in writing. ‒ the world is currently dealing with a humanitarian crisis on a scale never seen before. the duration and severity of these crises are also unprecedented. as a result, there are now more refugees and internally displaced persons than there have been since world war ii. in may 2016, the first humanitarian summit will be held in istanbul, at the initiative of un secretary-general ban ki-moon, with the aim of transforming the current humanitarian system to make it more effective and adapted to new challenges. the report aims to provide clear guidance on this, in particular with regard to food security, population growth and climate change. in addition to reducing vulnerability and managing risk, the report places a strong emphasis on transformation through innovation and making finance more transparent. the report calls for the adoption of a five-year roadmap, including political commitments on development, as the final document of the conference.
in writing. ‒ the development committee report draws attention to the fact that humanitarian crises of unprecedented scale, severity and duration have resulted in a dramatic increase in the number of people in need of humanitarian assistance. to address these challenges and find solutions, the un secretary-general convened the first humanitarian summit in may 2016. the aim of the event is to transform and adapt the humanitarian system to the rapidly changing landscape of emergencies, making humanitarian action more effective, efficient and sustainable. there is a clear need for a closer link between the humanitarian and development communities and for a shift in focus from response to prevention and prediction. the report highlights that the global humanitarian aid system has reached its limits due to unprecedented levels of need and limited resources, while at the same time the fundamental values of decency, dignity, humanity and solidarity are at stake. the committee on development recommends that parliament should take a position that the union should take the lead and play a key role in the process leading up to the humanitarian summit, in order to achieve a decisive outcome guided by humanitarian principles and the needs of the beneficiaries. to this end, the union must present a firm common position and a united action in istanbul. the report proposes the details of such a position. i supported the motion.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report, which sets out the tasks of the european union and its member states in preparing for the historic global humanitarian summit in may next year. i was mindful that the eu, as the world's largest donor and a leader in the international political promotion of humanity, has a special responsibility in these more challenging times than ever before. the proportion of people displaced by regional conflicts, especially wars in the middle east, and the resulting wave of migration are now affecting eu member states not only as members of the international community but also at their own borders. i agree that the only way to respond effectively is through a unified eu response, including through the humanitarian action plan. the report goes into detail on possible areas for improving eu humanitarian cooperation, such as international trade, development policy, enlargement and neighbourhood policy, and refugee and migration policy, which i myself consider to be of high importance. i also welcome the fact that the report focuses on addressing the humanitarian crisis situations that are particularly vulnerable for groups such as children, women and the elderly, and i have been trying for some time in my own political work in parliament to draw the eu's political attention to the importance of addressing their specific problems and vulnerabilities.
in writing. ‒ record levels of need and limited resources have pushed the global humanitarian aid system to the limits of its capacity. at the same time, the fundamental values of decency, dignity, humanity and solidarity are at stake. the union is expected and able to take the lead and play a key role in the process leading to the humanitarian summit, with a view to achieving a decisive outcome guided by humanitarian principles and the needs of the beneficiaries. i voted for the document.
in writing. ‒ the industrial metals industry in europe has recently faced a number of challenges: on the one hand, a significant drop in demand as a result of the crisis, and on the other, a significant increase in global competition from countries that do not have to adhere to high standards similar to those in europe. the commission has not found any evidence that the union industry has been able to recover from past dumping. the commission has also concluded that the measures provided for in this decision are in accordance with the opinion of the committee established by article 15 (1) of regulation (eu) no 525/2014. as regards the circular economy, i agree with the objective set out in the report to rapidly increase the recycling of rare earths and critical metals used in the union. it also calls for strong links between the industrial metal recycling sector and other sectors to strengthen the size and flexibility of the industry, especially in regions affected by industrial decline. as a member of the hungarian people's party delegation, i supported the report because i believe that there is a need to renew european industrial policy.
in writing. ‒ the european industrial metals industry (all kinds of steel, non-ferrous metals, metal alloys, rare earth metals) has recently faced a number of challenges: on the one hand, a significant drop in demand as a result of the crisis, and on the other, a significant increase in global competition from countries that do not have to comply with high standards similar to those in europe. the commission has not found any evidence that the union industry has been able to recover from past dumping. the commission has also concluded that the measures provided for in this decision are in accordance with the opinion of the committee established by article 15 (1) of regulation (eu) no 525/2014. european trade defence measures for industrial metals are more of a belated remedy than a preventive measure. european trade policy cannot ignore the fact that these third countries exploit their relative advantage in terms of access to raw materials, often receive state aid and sometimes sell their products at prices below production costs. in the detailed vote, i supported the use of co2 adjustment measures at the border as an option. as a member of the hungarian people's party delegation, i supported the report because i believe that there is a need to renew european industrial policy.
in writing. ‒ the industrial metals industry in europe has recently faced a number of challenges: on the one hand, a significant drop in demand as a result of the crisis, and on the other, a significant increase in global competition from countries that do not have to adhere to high standards similar to those in europe. the commission has not found any evidence that the union industry has been able to recover from past dumping. the commission has also concluded that the measures provided for in this decision are in accordance with the opinion of the committee established by article 15 (1) of regulation (eu) no 525/2014. european trade defence measures for industrial metals are more of a belated remedy than a preventive measure. european trade policy cannot ignore the fact that these third countries exploit their relative advantage in terms of access to raw materials, often receiving state aid, and sometimes selling their products at prices below production costs. as regards the circular economy, i agree with the objective set out in the report to rapidly increase the recycling of rare earths and critical metals used in the union. it also calls for strong links between the industrial metal recycling sector and other sectors to strengthen the size and flexibility of the industry, especially in regions affected by industrial decline. in the detailed vote, i supported the use of co2 adjustment measures at the border as an option.
in writing. ‒ the european steel industry has suffered huge losses in both capacity and jobs due to the fall in demand, which fell by 40 megatons in 2014 compared to 2007 levels. the capacity gap has reached such proportions that any renewed strengthening of european demand will create a deficit and create dependency unprecedented in the history of european trade, and the devastating impact of the loss of industrial know-how is certain to spill over into the upstream sectors, including passenger cars, construction and low-carbon technologies. we are in a period where emerging countries are developing their industrial metals industries (producing metals for which demand is again rising) and have thus become the main competitors on the world market for both steel and all industrial metals as well as rare earth metals, exploiting their relative advantage in terms of access to raw materials, sometimes coupled with the desire to sell them through state subsidies and dumping (i.e. selling below production costs). the eu needs to equip itself with flexible and reactive trade defence, adapting to the new global industrial environment, where the pace of decision-making needs to be accelerated in the face of the challenges posed by the potential proliferation of flows of raw materials and products, and of information and services. i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ the european industrial metals industry (all kinds of steel, non-ferrous metals, metal alloys, rare earth metals) has recently faced a number of challenges: on the one hand, a significant drop in demand as a result of the crisis, and on the other, a significant increase in global competition from countries that do not have to comply with high standards similar to those in europe. the commission has not found any evidence that the union industry has been able to recover from past dumping. the commission has also concluded that the measures provided for in this decision are in accordance with the opinion of the committee established by article 15 (1) of regulation (eu) no 525/2014. european trade defence measures for industrial metals are more of a belated remedy than a preventive measure. european trade policy cannot ignore the fact that these third countries exploit their relative advantage in terms of access to raw materials, often receive state aid and sometimes sell their products at prices below production costs. as regards the circular economy, i agree with the objective set out in the report to rapidly increase the recycling of rare earths and critical metals used in the union. in the detailed vote, i supported the use of co2 adjustment measures at the border as an option.
in writing. ‒ the industrial metals industry (various steels, non-ferrous metals, metal alloys, rare earth metals) in europe has recently faced a number of challenges. on the one hand, the crisis has led to a significant drop in demand, and on the other hand, there has been a significant increase in global competition from countries that do not have to comply with high standards such as those in europe. the commission has not found any evidence that the union industry has been able to recover from past dumping. the commission has also concluded that the measures provided for in this decision are in accordance with the opinion of the committee established by article 15 (1) of regulation (eu) no 525/2014. european trade defence measures for industrial metals are more of a belated remedy than a preventive measure. european trade policy cannot ignore the fact that these third countries exploit their relative advantage in terms of access to raw materials, often receive state aid and sometimes sell their products at prices below production costs. underlining the importance of a circular economy, the report identifies a rapid increase in the recycling of rare earth and critical metals used in the union. it also aims to establish strong links to strengthen the industrial metal recycling sector and other sectors, especially in regions affected by industrial decline. as a member of the hungarian people's party delegation, i supported the report because i believe that there is a need to renew european industrial policy.
in writing. ‒ the european industrial metals industry (all kinds of steel, non-ferrous metals, metal alloys, rare earth metals) has recently faced a number of challenges: on the one hand, a significant drop in demand as a result of the crisis, and on the other, a significant increase in global competition from countries that do not have to comply with high standards similar to those in europe. the commission has not found any evidence that the union industry has been able to recover from past dumping. the commission has also concluded that the measures provided for in this decision are in accordance with the opinion of the committee established by article 15 (1) of regulation (eu) no 525/2014. european trade defence measures for industrial metals are more of a belated remedy than a preventive measure. european trade policy cannot ignore the fact that these third countries exploit their relative advantage in terms of access to raw materials, often receive state aid and sometimes sell their products at prices below production costs. as regards the circular economy, i agree with the objective set out in the report to rapidly increase the recycling of rare earths and critical metals used in the union. it also calls for strong links between the industrial metal recycling sector and other sectors to strengthen the size and flexibility of the industry, especially in regions affected by industrial decline. as a member of the hungarian people's party delegation, i supported the report because i believe that there is a need to renew european industrial policy.
in writing. a report cannot be voted on if it has to be divided into six parts, so i abstained. of course, it turns out that chaotic editing is either just recklessness or it serves a purpose. i'm concerned about both carbon trading and industrial storage techniques. nature is very good at fixing carbon dioxide. deforestation should be banned, afforestation should be encouraged and timber should be provided from the forests planted for this purpose. and emissions could be drastically reduced by building carbon-free power plants, which would also make the metal industry more competitive because of cheaper electricity.
in writing. ‒ the report of the committee on industry draws attention to the problems of production and trade in industrial metals. the relatively high energy prices and the cost of carbon emissions severely limit the competitiveness of the european industrial metals industry on the global market, and this competitiveness is not improved by the very low investment in the european industrial metals industry for the same reasons. the report mentions the steel and aluminium industries as two major examples of the difficulties faced by industries that should be pursuing energy renewal and environmental modernisation in parallel. this would require an investment policy that few of them have the resources to pursue today. it considers the recycling of industrial metals and the creation of a circular economy to be absolutely vital, but points out that recycling alone cannot meet the future demands of europe as it embarks on the energy transition. in order to achieve the same installed capacity, wind and solar power plants consume 90 times more aluminium, 50 times more iron, copper and glass and 15 times more concrete (not to mention rare and critical metals) than conventional (oil, gas or nuclear-powered) thermal power plants currently in operation. the report seeks to address these very difficult problems, outlines possible solutions and recommends that parliament, in its resolution, urge a strong increase in efforts to address these concerns. i supported the report.
in writing. ‒ the european industrial metals industry (all kinds of steel, non-ferrous metals, metal alloys, rare earth metals) has recently faced a number of challenges: on the one hand, a significant drop in demand as a result of the crisis, and on the other, a significant increase in global competition from countries that do not have to comply with high standards similar to those in europe. the commission has not found any evidence that the union industry has been able to recover from past dumping. the commission has also concluded that the measures provided for in this decision are in accordance with the opinion of the committee established by article 15 (1) of regulation (eu) no 525/2014. european trade defence measures for industrial metals are more of a belated remedy than a preventive measure. european trade policy cannot ignore the fact that these third countries exploit their relative advantage in terms of access to raw materials, often receive state aid and sometimes sell their products at prices below production costs. as regards the circular economy, i agree with the objective set out in the report to rapidly increase the recycling of rare earths and critical metals used in the union. it also calls for strong links between the industrial metal recycling sector and other sectors to strengthen the size and flexibility of the industry, especially in regions affected by industrial decline. in the detailed vote, i supported the use of co2 adjustment measures at the border as an option.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report because i believe that the european steel industry has played an important historical role in the process of european integration and that it is the basis of industrial added value and value chains in europe. the report focuses on the development of an important industry which plays a key role in the development of the whole economy, both from a technological point of view and from the point of view of supply bottlenecks. the report describes that steel production capacity has decreased by more than 40 million tonnes since 2008, with 60,000 direct and 100,000 indirect job losses in the sector, thus the steel industry is experiencing the worst peacetime crisis in its history. all this is happening in an environment where we face strong global competition, but we cannot afford to ignore high european standards. the industrial metals industry and its safe production have a significant impact on european car manufacturing, aircraft manufacturing, energy production, construction or packaging. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's energy resources are used in a sustainable way. in my view, as with all development, the conscious development of the industrial metals industry can only be achieved through research and innovation and the wider use of renewable energy. all these developments must also take into account the fight against climate change.
in writing. ‒ the industrial metals industry in europe has recently faced a number of challenges: a large drop in demand as a result of the crisis, and a significant increase in global competition from countries that do not have to adhere to high standards similar to those in europe. the commission has not found any evidence that the union industry has been able to recover from past dumping. the commission has also concluded that the measures provided for in this decision are in accordance with the opinion of the committee established by article 15 (1) of regulation (eu) no 525/2014. european trade defence measures for industrial metals are more of a belated remedy than a preventive measure. european trade policy cannot ignore the fact that these third countries exploit their relative advantage in terms of access to raw materials, often receive state aid and sometimes sell their products at prices below production costs. as regards the circular economy, i agree with the objective set out in the report to rapidly increase the recycling of rare earths and critical metals used in the union. it also calls for strong links between the industrial metal recycling sector and other sectors to strengthen the size and flexibility of the industry, especially in regions affected by industrial decline. in the detailed vote, i supported the use of co2 adjustment measures at the border as an option.
in writing. ‒ the european steel industry has suffered huge losses in both capacity and jobs due to the fall in demand, which fell by 40 megatons in 2014 compared to 2007 levels. the capacity gap has reached such proportions that any renewed strengthening of european demand will create a deficit and create dependency unprecedented in the history of european trade, and the devastating impact of the loss of industrial know-how is certain to spill over into the upstream sectors, including passenger cars, construction and low-carbon technologies. i voted in favour of the report.
i can imagine few more impossible situations in politics than me sitting here in the european parliament building, where representatives of the 28 countries of functioning democracy are sitting, explaining what is happening in hungary, how the orbán regime has dismantled democratic institutions and how it controls the public. there are few more uncompromising opponents to viktor orbán at home, in domestic politics and here on the european stage. however, i could not support it today, i had to abstain from voting on the joint motion put forward by the political groups, because i cannot support a proposal which seeks to punish article 7, that is, the whole of hungary. and i can't support it because at home, the media machine of the orbán regime will be everywhere, saying that europe has attacked hungary. this will only strengthen the populist regime and the virus will continue to spread in europe, which is why i abstained today, but now i say to the orbán regime, i will continue to fight against it.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the parliament's resolution on the situation in hungary, because it is completely unacceptable, both in terms of procedure and content. the european commission, in its statement to parliament and in the december plenary, made it clear that it had examined and was continuously monitoring the situation in hungary and that it had concluded that neither the rule of law mechanism nor the conditions for activating article 7 were present in hungary. disregarding the findings of the european commission, the present decision is another list of lies and indictments against hungary. the text is malicious, vengeful, and no longer strives for the appearance of objectivity. the european parliament cannot afford to make such a recording of any member state.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the parliament's resolution on the situation in hungary, because it is completely unacceptable, both in terms of procedure and content. the european commission, in its statement to parliament and in the december plenary, made it clear that it had examined and was continuously monitoring the situation in hungary and that it had concluded that neither the rule of law mechanism nor the conditions for activating article 7 were present in hungary. disregarding the findings of the european commission, the present decision is another list of lies and indictments against hungary. the text is malicious, vengeful, and no longer strives for the appearance of objectivity. the european parliament cannot afford to make such a recording of any member state.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the parliament's resolution on the situation in hungary, because it is completely unacceptable, both in terms of procedure and content. the european commission, in its statement to parliament and in the december plenary, said that it had examined and was continuously monitoring the situation in hungary and that it had concluded that neither the rule of law mechanism nor the conditions for the activation of article 7 were present in hungary. disregarding the findings of the european commission, the present decision is another list of lies and indictments against hungary. the text is malicious, vengeful, and no longer strives for the appearance of objectivity. the european parliament cannot afford to make such a recording of any member state.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the parliament's resolution on the situation in hungary, because it is completely unacceptable, both in terms of procedure and content. the european commission, in its statement to parliament and in the december plenary, said that it had examined and was continuously monitoring the situation in hungary and that it had concluded that neither the rule of law mechanism nor the conditions for the activation of article 7 were present in hungary. disregarding the findings of the european commission, the present decision is another list of lies and indictments against hungary. the text is malicious, vengeful, and no longer strives for the appearance of objectivity. the european parliament cannot afford to make such a recording of any member state.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the parliament's resolution on the situation in hungary, because it is completely unacceptable, both in terms of procedure and content. the european commission, in its statement to parliament and in the december plenary, said that it had examined and was continuously monitoring the situation in hungary and that it had concluded that neither the rule of law mechanism nor the conditions for the activation of article 7 were present in hungary. disregarding the findings of the european commission, the present decision is another list of lies and indictments against hungary. the text is malicious, it doesn't even attempt to be objective. the european parliament cannot afford to make such a recording of any member state.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the parliament's resolution on the situation in hungary, because it is completely unacceptable, both in terms of procedure and content. the european commission, in its statement to parliament and in the december plenary, made it clear that it had examined and was continuously monitoring the situation in hungary and that it had concluded that neither the rule of law mechanism nor the conditions for activating article 7 were present in hungary. disregarding the findings of the european commission, the present decision is another list of lies and indictments against hungary. the text is malicious, vengeful, and no longer strives for the appearance of objectivity. the european parliament cannot afford to make such a recording of any member state.
in writing. ‒ the ppe, s&d, alde, verts/ale, ecr and gue/ngl groups tabled a draft resolution on this subject. the ppe proposal seeks to justify the hungarian policy of fidesz, which is one of their ranks, in relation to the possibilities, while the ecr proposal is rather meaningless. the draft of the other four political groups condemns recent developments with more or less equal force and points out that the initiatives and measures taken in hungary over the last few years have led to a significant and systemic deterioration of the situation with regard to the rule of law and fundamental rights, the functioning of the constitutional system, the independence of the judiciary and other institutions, and a number of worrying allegations of corruption and incompatibility. on this basis, these four groups were able to draw up a joint compromise resolution, which i voted in favour of.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution, which i myself, as a member, was actively involved in preparing. the main political objective of the democratic opposition in hungary - to which i belong as an mep together with my party - is to restore the country to democratic functioning in accordance with european standards and to replace the anti-eu, authoritarian and corrupt orbán government. the european parliament cannot take over this task from the hungarian electorate, but its current resolution is an important stimulus, a clear expression of the solidarity and values of the european democratic forces. the decision points out the contradiction between hungarian government practice and european norms and rules on a number of points and calls on the commission to closely monitor the development of the rule of law in hungary and, where appropriate, to take possible steps within the framework of european law. i could have taken a more firm and concrete position in this respect. however, i consider it a very important virtue of the decision that, compared to previous documents with similar aims, it focuses on the phenomenon of systemic corruption linked to the hungarian government, thus financing the anti-democratic regime. the eu's stronger control and political vigilance, as called for by the ep, i hope will help ensure that in future eu funding will not be used to enrich the regime's political and family connections, but rather to serve the objectives of hungarian businesses, communities and citizens related to eu programmes.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the parliament's resolution on the situation in hungary, because it is completely unacceptable, both in terms of procedure and content. the european commission, in its statement to parliament and in the december plenary, made it clear that it had examined and was continuously monitoring the situation in hungary and that it had concluded that neither the rule of law mechanism nor the conditions for activating article 7 were present in hungary. disregarding the findings of the european commission, the present decision is another list of lies and indictments against hungary. the text is malicious, vengeful, and no longer strives for the appearance of objectivity. the european parliament cannot afford to make such a recording of any member state.
it's a two-card draw. - mr. speaker, i have to ask you to excuse me. you mentioned that one of the greatest european values, which we have succeeded in widening the acceptance of, is the abolition of the death penalty, and i really think so too. but i also think that it undermines the credibility of the european union to a great extent to have a member state that is presenting this as a legitimate debate over and over again. i ask you what means you see beyond the rhetorical twists that we can suppress such voices within the european union once and for all, namely those who advocate the death penalty.
there are some very serious forms of human rights violations that are most commonly encountered outside the european union, but which, if they occur in any country of the european union, must be tackled immediately and decisively, and must be rooted out. arbitrary arrest is when someone is in power, abusing their power, and in our case abusing people's fear of terrorism... i'm sorry, i'd like you to ask mr. president to continue this conversation out loud if possible, because it's very difficult to talk like this. i'm going to ask you to stop the clock and ask mr. tannock, who entertains his audience so loudly all the time, to come out and speak there, because i can't get through what i have to say. thank you very much. so it seems that a phenomenon is emerging, or at least has already begun, which is essentially the following: some member states are pursuing their vile political aims by exploiting the fear of terrorism in the people by imprisoning their political opponents or persons they do not want. this happened to a szekler hungarian man, istván beke, in the romanian member state of kézdivásárhelyi, who is one of the leaders of the indigenous hungarian community. abusively, without evidence, in violation of the right to a fair trial and the right to a fair trial, he was imprisoned for preparing terrorism, as he was found with starbursts and firecrackers. i would like to convey to the european commissioner present here the summary of the case and ask that this matter be investigated immediately and that the phenomenon be dealt with at its root.
as the european union's action plan on human rights and democracy 2015-2019 shows, human rights are one of the most important pillars of our cooperation with the so-called third countries of the world. on an individual level, no one is arguing today that we need to make the world a place of basic human rights and protect the disenfranchised, the persecuted, the activists. but there is a collective dimension to this case. millions and millions of people around the world are persecuted because of their ethnic and/or religious affiliation, and they are violated in their collective rights as a minority. the rights of indigenous national minorities are not yet regulated in some countries of the union. even less so in the former communist countries of the eastern partnership, or in societies still under communist rule, and in most islamic countries. the plight of the tibetans and uighurs in china, as well as the unsustainable situation of christians who are being persecuted on a mass scale in the world, are striking examples. the excellent report by mr preda amongst other things identifies an important tool in eu enlargement policy for effectively enforcing human rights in the countries concerned. the countries of the western balkans, as well as the successor states of the former soviet empire, have an essential interest in breaking free from the legacy of communism and ensuring the human and community rights of all their citizens in accordance with the requirements of the union.
in writing. i would like to recall that the eu's enlargement policy is one of the most effective means of strengthening respect for human rights and democratic principles. i welcome the application of the new approach in the accession negotiations to the chapters on justice and fundamental rights and on freedom, security and justice, which takes due account of the time needed to properly implement the relevant reforms. the report shows that freedom of expression and freedom of the press are weakening in some accession countries and in many countries participating in the neighbourhood policy. freedom of expression and the media should continue to be monitored during the accession negotiations. the proper implementation of the legal framework for the protection of minorities remains a challenge. accession countries should step up their efforts to strengthen the culture of acceptance of minorities, for example by improving the involvement of minorities in decision-making processes and increasing their involvement in the education system. the report notes with concern the deterioration of the democratic political culture in some candidate and potential candidate countries, as well as in a number of countries participating in the european neighbourhood policy. i would like to recall that good governance, the rule of law, freedom of expression, respect for human rights, political dialogue, compromise and the involvement of all stakeholders in the decision-making process are at the heart of democratic systems.
in writing. i am pleased to see that the annual human rights report prepared by mr preda has been adopted in plenary. i congratulate the rapporteur, because the draft report itself was a balanced and comprehensive text, which provided a good basis for our further work. i would like to welcome the fact that the protection of vulnerable groups such as women, children, religious, linguistic and national minorities has been reinforced in the text. these groups also deserve special attention when we are dealing with pressing issues such as migration and the plight of those living in refugee camps. we must work with the countries concerned to ensure that children and young people in refugee camps receive adequate education and that girls and women are adequately protected. the final text also pays particular attention to the issue of national minorities. it is essential to ensure equality in practice between national minorities and the majority nation. this is true in all areas of life - social, economic, political and cultural. the protection of national and linguistic minorities should be given special attention during the accession process. we celebrated world human rights day a few days ago. i would like to welcome the announcement by the european commission on this occasion of a new comprehensive mechanism to support human rights defenders. we can support human rights activists who risk their lives to defend human rights in the most dangerous places in the world.
ladies and gentlemen, if we are trying to look at this matter here in this chamber, and not just in this chamber, but in the general media environment surrounding the european parliament, then i have to say that this debate is appropriate. but the european public discourse is much more complicated and much more crude than that, and what's more, reading and looking at the mainstream media, i can say again, opinions may be differing, but we have no idea what's at the end. this is the terrible public discourse that is generated by some governments, for example, the hungarian government, which, strange as it may seem to those in this room, built that terrible fence with european money, partly with european money, and partly with european money, and continues that government propaganda that doesn't literally suggest, on radio and television, that we should be afraid of refugees. the refugees are terrorists, everybody get ready, everybody get ready for self-defense, there's flooding and so on and so forth. the european union must be able to show more strength than that, and in that sense it is really necessary to unify the rules and to demand those we are talking about here today. and in this case, i would also mention the pnr control, the passenger registration system. so it's not possible to do that by having us, the european citizens here, checking each other from top to bottom, while at the same time hundreds of thousands of people can cross, say in greece, two schengen borders without any controls, when they come in and when they go out. so in english, i think we really need a much more cohesive and unified point of view, which is respected by everyone.
a fine analogy was used by dr. zetenyi zsolt, a lawyer who was a colleague of ours at the recent national defense service conference. imagine a very wealthy company inviting a huge foreign delegation to its beautiful, luxurious palace on the rocky coast. when the huge foreign delegation arrives, it happens to be a weekend and there's only the janitor in the duck-wire building. when he calls his bosses in a panic, they say it's okay, take them home to their own apartment, put them up, feed them and make sure they're having a good time. this is exactly what happened to us, a country where people live on salaries of 200-300 euros per month. you have been kind enough, with mrs merkel, your boss and germany at your head, to invite millions and millions of refugees here, and now you want the countries in misery to take the blame. no, thank you.
in writing. every crisis is an opportunity. the migration crisis is an opportunity for us to make the eu take responsibility for itself and put the things that are important to us first. however, it is important that we not be controlled by events, but that we be responsible for controlling events. i am convinced that if we bury our heads in the sand and start pointing at each other, it will not lead to a solution, but to chaos. schengen must remain, let us say, while more and more member states are calling for the temporary reintroduction of border controls. free movement is a great value. after that, i just don't understand why it's a problem for someone to comply with the eu law that we have collectively put in place and protect the schengen border. that's why they're suing us for breach of contract. i'm not sure. i don't know where it started. but i do know one thing. contradictory speech and action are harmful. our common goal is to live in fear of criminals and terrorists. this requires strict and fair rules that can be enforced and are enforced. in the current process, under migration pressure, the destabilisation of the eu must be avoided. it's okay to be honest and call it what it is, but it's the only way to get a solution together. the measures taken are not sufficiently common and therefore unenforceable. if something is not the right answer, then we should not force it, but find a real common action.
madam president, my colleagues have already ably and wisely listed the political lessons and constitutional complications emerging from a peace accord which, at the time of its making, was both necessary and reasonable but which became dysfunctional over time. i would like to direct our attention to a different, and maybe even more broadly relevant, story and lesson from the 20-year history of the peace negotiations. we should bear in mind that the dayton process was the first resolution of a brutal – very brutal – war in the post-world war ii period in which international humanitarian law was not pushed into the background for the sake of a political deal. this was the first case of its kind after the second world war. indeed, no impunity was offered to those suspected of war crimes and crimes against humanity. had, for example, radovan karadžić not been indicted by the tribunal, he would have led the republika srpska delegation, and that would have meant that the peace negotiations would have collapsed before they started. so, for me, the lesson we should bear in mind is this: the policy of no impunity is not only the right policy – we all know that – but it is very often, at the same time, the best policy.
in writing. i consider it important and symbolic that today we in the european parliament are also commemorating the fact that two decades ago, with the help of the international community, we managed to end a bloody balkan european civil war and prevent its flame from spreading further across europe. the anniversary should also serve as a reminder to europe's responsible leaders that the security, stability and european integration of the western balkans is now clearly a responsibility and a primary interest of the eu, and that the world's population and the people of the countries concerned expect active and effective action from us accordingly. the most important tool in the eu's hands is the dynamic continuation of the western balkans' accession process, which offers the countries of the region, and in particular the government and society of bosnia and herzegovina, a limited but realistic perspective of democratic transformation and economic prosperity. active engagement with the accession process gives the eu and commission negotiators the credibility to welcome the progress made by the government and the people of bosnia and herzegovina in the process of accession and to take account of the further steps towards the full functioning of the european rule of law. in the light of all these considerations, i believe that this anniversary should also be a good opportunity to acknowledge that the commission's programme was wrong in weakening the credibility of the process, the integration motivation of the countries concerned, by delaying the accession perspective.
it's a two-card draw. i'd like to ask you a very short question. all of this that you have just said, and i'm not going to argue with that, but how do you think this whole european-level issue is going to play out when it becomes a topic in the ttip negotiations?
in fact, there are a couple of lessons from today's debate which we have not talked about as much, but which may be useful later on, and i would like to turn to the commission in particular. big companies, especially multinational companies, they really want to be monopoly, but the way capitalism works is that they want their investments, their research money, to have some sort of guaranteed return. if we tell them not to do this - and i say not to do this - then european research institutions, european academies, should be at the forefront of this development, and in this respect i think the commission should consider how the european community can support innovation at the level of academic research with taxpayers' money. that's what i'm suggesting.
in writing. ‒ i supported, by my signature and later by my vote, the proposal to set up a specialised committee in the european parliament on emission measurement in the automotive industry. i think it is important that the representation system provides real solutions within such a framework, because the scale of the case requires it. i am already involved in the work of a similar special committee which is investigating the lux-leaks tax scandal (taxe). the new special committee is to examine alleged breaches of law and maladministration in the light of eu law and the role of the eu institutions in this regard. i believe that the future special committee, with the participation of several political groups, will be able to analyse effectively the current situation of emission measurement and possible future solutions for the benefit of the electorate.
in writing. ‒ the proposal calls for the establishment of a commission of inquiry into emission measurements in the automotive sector to investigate allegations of breaches and abuses of eu law in its application, without prejudice to the jurisdiction of national and eu courts. i voted in favor of the motion.
in writing. ‒ the rapporteur agreed to the conclusion of the protocol, citing, among other things, the recommendation of the committee on foreign affairs, which i myself supported.
in writing. ‒ the rapporteur agreed to the conclusion of the protocol, citing, among other things, the recommendation of the committee on foreign affairs, which i myself supported.
in writing. ‒ the comprehensive partnership and cooperation agreement aims to establish a modern, broad-based and mutually beneficial partnership based on common interests and principles such as equality, mutual respect, the rule of law and respect for human rights. vietnam is the eu's largest export market and has consistently taken a strong pro-european approach in recent decades and has been active in the asean-eu dialogue as an asean country coordinator. i supported the motion.
in writing. ‒ on 21 october 2015, the commission published a package of measures to achieve economic and monetary union (emu). the report of the committee on economic and monetary affairs recommends that parliament take note of the commission's proposal to strengthen the emu, acknowledging that several steps have been taken in the right direction, but stressing that further efforts will be needed to address the current shortcomings in the euro area institutional system. it urged the commission to open negotiations with parliament, the council and the eurogroup on an interinstitutional agreement on european economic governance. finally, it proposes that parliament should express its reservations about the lack of parliamentary control and debate at european level, which are necessary to ensure democratic accountability for decisions taken in the context of the emu. i supported the report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the decision to complete the european economic and monetary union. i welcome the efforts of the five presidents and the commission to strengthen economic and monetary union. the plan is ambitious but pragmatic, and it is no longer just a crisis management plan but a plan to consolidate and complete the union. democratic accountability and legitimacy have and will play a major role in this process, which is why it is important that the european parliament be given sufficient scope to review macroeconomic adjustment programmes. the european parliament's greater involvement in the european semester process is therefore crucial, without which it would not have full legitimacy.
in writing. ‒ significant and rapid progress is needed to strengthen the euro area. as a first step in the roadmap outlined in the five presidents' report, the european commission published on 21 october 2015 a package of measures to achieve economic and monetary union (emu). the commission's proposal has taken several steps in the right direction, but further efforts will be needed to address the current weaknesses in the euro area institutional framework. i supported the final text.
in writing. ‒ in its report 'the state of human rights and democracy in the world in 2014', the european parliament examines the situation of fundamental rights and freedoms and democracy in so-called third countries. the document stresses that human rights and democratic values such as freedom of expression and freedom of thought are more undermined than ever in many parts of the world. furthermore, while freedom of conscience, religion, or belief are basic human rights recognized in the universal declaration of human rights, they are also being grossly violated in many un member states. the report calls for the union and its member states to use the policy instruments at their disposal more effectively and urges them to step up their efforts to ensure that human rights are effectively at the heart of their international relations.
in writing. ‒ in its report 'the state of human rights and democracy in the world in 2014', the european parliament examines the situation of fundamental rights and freedoms and democracy in so-called third countries. the document stresses that human rights and democratic values such as freedom of expression and freedom of thought are more undermined than ever in many parts of the world. furthermore, while freedom of conscience, religion, or belief are basic human rights recognized in the universal declaration of human rights, they are also being grossly violated in many un member states. the report calls for the union and its member states to use more effectively the additional policy tools at their disposal and urges them to step up their efforts to ensure that human rights are effectively at the heart of their relations with the wider world. it is in this spirit that i voted in favour of the preda report, as human rights cannot be a secondary issue in eu foreign policy.
in writing. ‒ in its report 'the state of human rights and democracy in the world in 2014', the european parliament examines the situation of fundamental rights and freedoms and democracy in so-called third countries. the document stresses that human rights and democratic values such as freedom of expression and freedom of thought are more undermined than ever in many parts of the world. furthermore, while freedom of conscience, religion, or belief are basic human rights recognized in the universal declaration of human rights, they are also being grossly violated in many un member states. the report calls for the union and its member states to make more effective use of the policy instruments still available and urges them to step up their efforts to ensure that human rights are effectively at the heart of their relations with the wider world. it is in this spirit that i voted in favour of the preda report, as human rights cannot be a secondary issue in eu foreign policy.
in writing. ‒ in its report 'the state of human rights and democracy in the world in 2014', the european parliament examines the situation of fundamental rights and freedoms and democracy in so-called third countries. the document stresses that human rights and democratic values such as freedom of expression and freedom of thought are more undermined than ever in many parts of the world. furthermore, while freedom of conscience, religion, or belief are basic human rights recognized in the universal declaration of human rights, they are also being grossly violated in many un member states. the report calls for the union and its member states to use more effectively the additional policy tools at their disposal and urges them to step up their efforts to ensure that human rights are effectively at the heart of their relations with the wider world. it is in this spirit that i voted in favour of the preda report, as human rights cannot be a secondary issue in eu foreign policy.
in writing. ‒ in its report 'the state of human rights and democracy in the world in 2014', the european parliament examines the situation of fundamental rights and freedoms and democracy in so-called third countries. the document stresses that human rights and democratic values such as freedom of expression and freedom of thought are being disadvantaged in many parts of the world. freedom of conscience, religion, or belief are fundamental human rights recognized in the universal declaration of human rights, and they are also being grossly violated in many un member states. the report calls for the union and its member states to use the policy tools at their disposal more effectively and urges them to step up their efforts to ensure that human rights are effectively at the heart of their relations with the wider world. it is in this spirit that i voted in favour of the preda report, as human rights cannot be a secondary issue in eu foreign policy.
in writing. ‒ in its report 'the state of human rights and democracy in the world in 2014', the european parliament examines the situation of fundamental rights and freedoms and democracy in so-called third countries. the document stresses that human rights and democratic values such as freedom of expression and freedom of thought are more undermined than ever in many parts of the world. furthermore, while freedom of conscience, religion, or belief are basic human rights recognized in the universal declaration of human rights, they are being grossly violated in many un member states. the report calls for the union and its member states to use the policy tools at their disposal more effectively. it urges them to step up their efforts to make human rights a more prominent feature of their foreign policy. it is in this spirit that i voted in favour of the preda report, as human rights cannot be a secondary issue in eu foreign policy.
in writing. ‒ in its report 'the state of human rights and democracy in the world in 2014', the european parliament examines the situation of fundamental rights and freedoms and democracy in so-called third countries. the document stresses that human rights and democratic values such as freedom of expression and freedom of thought are more undermined than ever in many parts of the world. furthermore, while freedom of conscience, religion, or belief are basic human rights recognized in the universal declaration of human rights, they are also being grossly violated in many un member states. the report calls for the union and its member states to make more effective use of the policy instruments still available and urges them to step up their efforts to ensure that human rights are effectively at the heart of their relations with the wider world. it is in this spirit that i voted in favour of the preda report, as human rights cannot be a secondary issue in eu foreign policy.
in writing. the report is nowhere near balanced and as such, unacceptable to me. there's an old saying, "everyone should sweep in front of his own door". the indigenous peoples of europe, condemned to be minorities, would rightly expect and expect the european union, the champion of democracy and human rights, to be the first to put an end to their oppression and vulnerability. the catalans, the basques, the szekels and the peace dictates of trianon have forced our national regions abroad. i have not seen any attempt to do so, and the eu has not even repealed the venice decrees. two years ago, the report of that time called for the protection of traditional european national communities and the establishment of standards at eu level to guarantee their collective rights. why hasn't this been born since?
in writing. ‒ in june 2015, the council adopted the eu annual report 2014 on the situation of human rights and democracy in the world. in its motion for a resolution on this subject, the committee on foreign affairs proposes that parliament express its deep concern at the growing threat to human rights and democratic values, the shrinking mobility of civil society and the increasing number of human rights defenders under attack worldwide. it calls for the avoidance of double standards and for greater consistency between the union's internal and external policies with regard to respect for human rights and democratic values, recalling that the annual report by parliament's citizens' committee on the situation of fundamental rights in the union did not find that everything was in order within the union. proposes, in this context, to call on the union and its member states to address internal human rights challenges such as the situation of roma, the treatment of refugees and migrants, discrimination against lgbti persons, racism, violence against women, detention conditions and freedom of the media, in order to maintain the credibility and consistency of the union's external human rights policy; it suggests that the eu should speak with a consistent, unified voice and ensure that its message is heard. i voted for the report.
in writing. ‒ in its report 'the state of human rights and democracy in the world in 2014', the european parliament examines the situation of fundamental rights and freedoms and democracy in so-called third countries. the document stresses that human rights and democratic values such as freedom of expression and freedom of thought are more undermined than ever in many parts of the world. furthermore, while freedom of conscience, religion, or belief are basic human rights recognized in the universal declaration of human rights, they are also being grossly violated in many un member states. the report calls for the union and its member states to use more effectively the additional policy tools at their disposal and urges them to step up their efforts to ensure that human rights are effectively at the heart of their relations with the wider world.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the adoption of the report, which provides a useful overview of the current international human rights situation and, in particular, of the position and responsibilities of the european union and its member states. the deeply worrying picture only reinforces the importance of europe, the eu, to strengthen its active role as a role model and a guiding force in the global promotion of democratic norms and human rights. the report rightly stresses that in future human rights considerations should be placed more strongly in the focus of the eu's external relations - which is particularly important to me - and of its enlargement and neighbourhood policy - and that this should be done in a common voice among the eu member states. as a hungarian democratic politician and a socialist representative, this tells me that we must first restore our own credibility in a political and moral situation where the leader of an eu member state, viktor orbán, has just recently stated as his political credo that human rights are only a secondary value, compared to christianity or military virtues. fortunately, the report and the parliamentary debate on it have convinced me that the european democratic political community does not share this assessment.
in writing. ‒ in its report 'the state of human rights and democracy in the world in 2014', the european parliament examines the situation of fundamental rights and freedoms and democracy in so-called third countries. the document stresses that human rights and democratic values such as freedom of expression and freedom of thought are more undermined than ever in many parts of the world. furthermore, while freedom of conscience, religion, or belief are basic human rights recognized in the universal declaration of human rights, they are also being grossly violated in many un member states. the report calls for the union and its member states to use the policy tools at their disposal more effectively and urges them to step up their efforts to ensure that human rights are effectively at the heart of their relations with the wider world. it is in this spirit that i voted in favour of the preda report, as human rights cannot be a secondary issue in eu foreign policy.
in writing. ‒ the dayton peace agreement, signed in paris on 14 december 1995, brought an end to the bloodiest war in europe since the second world war. the draft resolution was tabled by the groups of the european people's party, the european coal and steel community, the european democratic alliance, the european democratic alliance, the european democratic alliance, the european people's party, the greens/efa, the european democratic alliance and the socialist and democrats group on the occasion of the 20th anniversary of the signing of the agreement. the political groups, with the exception of the enf, managed to reach a common position and to draw up a compromise proposal. i voted for that.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report because i think it is important that we in the european parliament also commemorate the fact that two decades ago, with the help of the international community, a bloody balkan civil war in europe was brought to an end. the report points out that the security, stability and european integration of the western balkans is now clearly a responsibility and a primary interest of the eu, and that the world and the people of the countries concerned expect active and effective action from us. the example of bosnia and herzegovina over the past 20 years demonstrates that the eu's most important tool for this is the dynamic continuation of the western balkans' accession process, which offers the countries and their citizens in the region a limited but realistic prospect of democratic transformation and economic prosperity. the results and concerns identified in the report indicate that a consistent continuation of the accession process gives the eu the credibility to welcome the progress made by the government and the people of bosnia and herzegovina in the process of accession and to take account of the further steps towards the full functioning of the european rule of law and the stabilisation of the border area. the latter aspect has been of particular importance in my deliberations as a citizen and politician of a member state neighbouring the balkans.
in writing. ‒ the dayton peace agreement was signed in paris on 14 december 1995, ending the bloodiest war in europe since the second world war. it is regrettable that 20 years after the end of the conflict and the adoption of a general framework agreement outlining the main aspects of the peace settlement and the future development of the situation in the country, successive governments have not been able to establish a fully functional, self-sustaining state. i voted in favour of the final text.
in writing. ‒ council common position 2008/944/cfsp of 8 december 2008 establishing common rules on control of exports of military technology and equipment. albania, bosnia and herzegovina, the former yugoslav republic of macedonia, iceland, canada, montenegro and norway have formally acceded to the criteria and principles set out in the common position as third countries. the draft resolution of the committee on foreign affairs points out that armed conflicts are mainly taking place in ukraine, syria, iraq, libya and yemen and that arms trafficking to conflict-affected states may have contributed to the emergence of these conflicts. it also refers to the fact that weapons often end up in the hands of terrorists or oppressive regimes in countries where children are recruited or may be recruited, or regimes with dubious links to international terrorism and repressive domestic policies and aggressive foreign policies. it also regrets that approximately half a million people die each year as a result of armed violence, whether in armed conflict or in the context of crime. it therefore proposes that parliament should call for the implementation, consistent observance and stricter monitoring of the common position in its resolution. i supported the motion.
in writing. ‒ it is deeply worrying that armed conflicts are spreading, especially in ukraine, syria, iraq, libya and yemen, and that all international conflicts, which in an increasingly globalised world pose a threat to global stability and security and have led to a decline in stability and security in the union's neighbourhood, are increasingly becoming a major source of concern. arms trafficking to conflict-affected states may have contributed to these conflicts. and you have to be able to fight that. i voted for the common position.
in writing. ‒ a draft resolution on the subject was tabled by the ppe, s&d, ecr and alde political groups. the four political groups managed to reach a common position and to draw up a compromise proposal. i supported the compromise proposal.
in writing. ‒ one of the important topics discussed by the european parliament today was the motion for a resolution on patents and plant breeding, which i also noted as a rapporteur and supported in the vote. the issue is food safety and it is therefore important to regulate it at european level. i believe that innovation, research and development should not be inhibited in any way, unless there is a risk to human or animal health. the european patent office should therefore help this process, and the intellectual property system is an important market- and competition-enhancing instrument. let's not forget that as a result of the work of ennoblement, we also produce public goods. it is important that the plant breeding sector has unrestricted access to biological material. in the interests of food security, biodiversity and adaptation to environmental change, i think farmers should even be allowed to produce their own seeds adapted to local conditions (if they meet certain criteria). this may be important in special cases such as organic farming. the regulation of this obviously needs to be improved: there is currently no coherence in the patent systems at eu or national level, plus there is no guarantee for plant breeders to have unlimited access to biological materials. in my speech i called for the relationship between this issue and ttip to be settled.
in writing. ‒ ensuring global food security, tackling climate change and preventing monopolies in the plant breeding sector, while at the same time providing more opportunities for smes, access to biological plant material, including plant traits, is essential to boost innovation and develop new varieties. i voted in favour of the s&d group's position.
in writing. ‒ in april 2015, president nkurunziza announced that he would run for a third term as president, despite the country's constitution forbidding it. contrary to the recommendations of the international community, president nkurunziza ran for office and won in august. all of this has plunged the country into the deepest political and humanitarian crisis since the civil war. since then, approximately 200 people have been killed and 200 forced to flee the country. the motion calls for an immediate end to the violence and calls on the burundian government to respect its obligations and guarantee the respect of fundamental human rights.
in writing. ‒ in april 2015, president nkurunziza announced that he would run for a third term as president, despite the country's constitution forbidding it. contrary to the recommendations of the international community, president nkurunziza ran for office and won the elections in august. all of this has plunged the country into the deepest political and humanitarian crisis since the civil war. since then, approximately 200 people have been killed and 200 forced to flee the country. the motion calls for an immediate end to the violence and calls on the burundian government to respect its obligations and guarantee the respect of fundamental human rights.
in writing. in april 2015, president nkurunziza announced that he would run for a third term as president, despite the country's constitutional prohibition against doing so. contrary to the recommendations of the international community, president nkurunziza ran for office and won the elections in august. all of this has plunged the country into the deepest political and humanitarian crisis since the civil war. since then, approximately 200 people have been killed and 200 forced to flee the country. the motion calls for an immediate end to the violence and calls on the burundian government to respect its obligations and guarantee the respect of fundamental human rights.
in writing. ‒ in april 2015, president nkurunziza announced that he would run for a third term as president, despite the country's constitution forbidding it. contrary to the recommendations of the international community, president nkurunziza ran for office and won the elections in august. all of this has plunged the country into the deepest political and humanitarian crisis since the civil war. since then, approximately 200 people have been killed and 200 forced to flee the country. the motion calls for an immediate end to the violence and calls on the burundian government to respect its obligations and guarantee the respect of fundamental human rights.
in writing. ‒ in april 2015, president nkurunziza announced that he would run for a third term as president, despite the country's constitution forbidding it. contrary to the recommendations of the international community, president nkurunziza ran for office and won the elections in august. all of this has plunged the country into the deepest political and humanitarian crisis since the civil war. since then, approximately 200 people have been killed and 200 forced to flee the country. the motion calls for an immediate end to the violence and calls on the burundian government to respect its obligations and guarantee the respect of fundamental human rights.
in writing. ‒ in april 2015, president nkurunziza announced that he would run for a third term as president, despite the country's constitution forbidding it. contrary to the recommendations of the international community, president nkurunziza ran for office and won the elections in august. all of this has plunged the country into the deepest political and humanitarian crisis since the civil war. since then, approximately 200 people have been killed and 200 forced to flee the country. the motion calls for an immediate end to the violence and calls on the burundian government to respect its obligations and guarantee the respect of fundamental human rights.
in writing. ‒ a draft resolution on the subject was tabled by the political groups ecr, verts/ale, epp, s&d, alde, gue/ngl and efdd. the seven political groups managed to reach a common position and to draw up a compromise proposal. i supported the compromise proposal.
in writing. ‒ in april 2015, president nkurunziza announced that he would run for a third term as president, despite the country's constitution forbidding it. contrary to the recommendations of the international community, president nkurunziza ran for office and won the elections in august. all of this has plunged the country into the deepest political and humanitarian crisis since the civil war. since then, approximately 200 people have been killed and 200 forced to flee the country. the motion calls for an immediate end to the violence and calls on the burundian government to respect its obligations and guarantee the respect of fundamental human rights. agreeing with the substance of the motion, i voted in favour of its adoption.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution because i am convinced that, after the un, the au and other international actors, the eu and the european parliament must also make a strong appeal to the burundian political players to put an end to the armed violence with serious consequences. in view of the facts mentioned in the report, i am particularly concerned about the risk of an escalation of internal conflict in the whole great lakes region, which could increase the already massive refugee flow to an extent that would be unmanageable for the neighbouring countries. moreover, i believe that the european union, as the largest local donor and a leading force in the international community, cannot remain silent in the face of the humanitarian catastrophe caused by the violence in burundi. i believe that urgent international action is needed on the basis of international solidarity, particularly as a large proportion of the victims of the burundi conflict, and even of the armed actors, are children. the european parliament's resolution on the situation in burundi is therefore a good opportunity to give the high representative a strong political basis for the eu to contribute more effectively to preventing a further deterioration of the security and humanitarian situation in burundi and to putting an end to the violence.
in writing. ‒ in recent days, following attacks on three military camps in bujumbura, the security situation in burundi has deteriorated significantly. as of december 2015, the fdlr has been responsible for the deaths of at least 11 people in the rdc. the burundian government has ignored the resolutions and recommendations adopted by the au and the east african community (eac) on 13 june 2015 and 6 july 2015 respectively, the full implementation of which would have paved the way for credible and fully participatory elections. i supported the s&d group's resolution.
in writing. ‒ the protection of the natural environment is given a prominent role in ensuring sustainable development. the resolution calls for the prevention of irreversible damage to virunga national park, which was declared a world heritage site by unesco in 1979 and a world heritage site in danger in 1994. the proposal seeks to draw attention to the irreversible damage that could be caused in virunga national park by illegal oil exploration and extraction activities. it also considers it unacceptable that the french oil company total and the british oil company soco international have obtained oil extraction rights in the national park, in breach of a number of international conventions.
in writing. ‒ the motion for a resolution calls for the prevention of irreversible damage to virunga national park, which was declared a world heritage site by unesco in 1979 and a world heritage site in danger in 1994. the proposal seeks to draw attention to the irreversible damage that could be caused in virunga national park by illegal oil exploration and extraction activities. it also considers it unacceptable that the french oil company total and the british oil company soco international have obtained oil extraction rights in the national park, in breach of a number of international conventions.
in writing. ‒ the motion for a resolution calls for the prevention of irreversible damage to the virunga national park, which was declared a world heritage site by unesco in 1979 and a world heritage site in danger in 1994. the proposal seeks to draw attention to the irreversible damage that could be caused in virunga national park by illegal oil exploration and extraction activities. it also considers it unacceptable that the french oil company total and the british oil company soco international have obtained oil extraction rights in the national park, in breach of a number of international conventions.
in writing. ‒ the motion for a resolution calls for the prevention of irreversible damage to virunga national park, which was declared a world heritage site by unesco in 1979 and a world heritage site in danger in 1994. the proposal seeks to draw attention to the irreversible damage that could be caused in virunga national park by illegal oil exploration and extraction activities. it also considers it unacceptable that the french oil company total and the british oil company soco international have been granted oil extraction rights in the national park, in breach of a number of international conventions.
in writing. ‒ the motion for a resolution calls for the prevention of irreversible damage to virunga national park. this area was declared a world heritage site by unesco in 1979 and a world heritage site in danger in 1994. the proposal seeks to draw attention to the irreversible damage that illegal oil exploration and extraction activities can cause in the virunga region. it also considers it unacceptable that the french oil company total and the british oil company soco international have obtained oil extraction rights in the national park, in breach of a number of international conventions.
in writing. ‒ the motion for a resolution calls for the prevention of irreversible damage to the virunga national park, which was declared a world heritage site by unesco in 1979 and a world heritage site in danger in 1994. the proposal seeks to draw attention to the irreversible damage that could be caused in virunga national park by illegal oil exploration and extraction activities. it also considers it unacceptable that the french oil company total and the british oil company soco international have obtained oil extraction rights in the national park, in breach of a number of international conventions.
in writing. the democratic republic of congo is a vast country rich in both mineral and natural resources. as you know, it suffered unbridled exploitation during colonial times throughout its history. it is now formally a free country, but it remains threatened by the profiteering of multinational corporations. that's why i voted for the resolution that seeks to protect the national park by curbing mining. it may be time for the former colonialists to consider how they can at least partially compensate for their damage. we have only one earth, which is a unified ecosystem.
in writing. ‒ virunga national park in the democratic republic of congo is africa's oldest national park, a unesco world heritage site, the most biodiverse park in africa and particularly famous for its mountain gorillas, which are listed as endangered in appendix i of the convention on international trade in endangered species of wild fauna and flora (cites) 1973. despite the park's status as a protected wilderness area, it has been threatened for decades by armed groups engaged in poaching, deforestation and other unsustainable and illegal forms of resource exploitation, which has resulted in virunga national park being declared a world heritage site in danger. the democratic republic of the congo (drc) has been in and around violent conflict for more than two decades and illegal mining, illegal exploitation of the park's natural resources (wood, charcoal) and poaching of endangered species, as well as other illegal trade in natural resources, are also sources of funding for rebels and the official army. the committee on development therefore proposes in its draft resolution to call on the european union, its member states, the european external action service, any relevant donors active in the drc and the drc authorities to do their utmost to protect the unique natural values of the park. i voted for the motion.
in writing. ‒ the motion for a resolution calls for the prevention of irreversible damage to virunga national park, which was declared a world heritage site by unesco in 1979 and a world heritage site in danger in 1994. the proposal seeks to draw attention to the irreversible damage that could be caused in virunga national park by illegal oil exploration and extraction activities. it also considers it unacceptable that the french oil company total and the british oil company soco international have obtained oil extraction rights in the national park, in breach of a number of international conventions. in view of all this, i voted in favour of the motion.
in writing. ‒ virunga national park, located in the democratic republic of congo's north kivu province and orientale province on the border with rwanda and uganda, is africa's oldest national park and a unesco world heritage site. it is world-renowned for its unique habitats and rich biodiversity, being the most biodiverse park in africa. it is especially famous for its mountain gorillas. the european commission and some eu member states have provided support for the park's maintenance over the past 25 years. i voted for the resolution to protect him.
