madam president, in order to force the irish people to pay 43% of the european banking crisis, dublin governments have introduced several new stealth charges and taxes that have caused devastation and hardship to many families. these taxes have not led to improved services; they have been unfair and have deliberately targeted those on lower incomes disproportionately. the irish people are sending a very clear message that they have had enough. in their hundreds of thousands, irish communities have joined together and marched against the latest tax on their families. the irish government has called it a water charge, but the irish people see it for what it is: another tax which, if introduced, would put many families over the edge and would further hamper domestic economies. that under pressure the irish government has now introduced temporary caps proves that the charge has absolutely nothing to do with water conservation but is just another attack on irish families. i want to take this opportunity to declare in the european parliament, as it has been declared on streets in every town in ireland, that the water tax will be defeated and a new economic policy that is based on fairness and prosperity and against the austerity agenda will emerge.
on behalf of the gue/ngl group. – madam president, almost five long years have passed since the commission initially tabled this hugely significant proposal on national updates for gmo cultivation. the long and winding path to today’s vote reflects the highly controversial nature of genetic modification for consumers, farmers, national governments and meps in this parliament. consistent polls show that citizens across the european union continue to be wary of gm – a wariness that biotech companies casually dismiss as lack of understanding. i would argue the opposite. citizens are acutely aware of the implications of gm. they have seen the impact that gm cultivation has had in america and india: increased herbicide resistance and the need for stronger pesticides and more frequent pesticide use. the ups and downs of this legislation have, unfortunately, ended on a disappointing note. parliament’s first reading and frédérique ries’s report from last year were both excellent rebuttals to the initial weak proposal by the commission in 2010 and the very worrying council position of june 2014. the council position introduced a system whereby democratically-elected governments would politely ask a biotech company to remove their territory from the authorisation procedure. the concept of a private company being placed on an equal footing with a sovereign country is deeply undemocratic and set a worrying precedent. while i welcome the fact that this system has been improved in the final document, i nevertheless believe that the legislation before us is flawed. parliament wanted to ensure that member states would be able to use justifications for opting out based on environmental and health grounds additional to those examined in the european risk assessment. unfortunately the key word ‘complementary’ has been removed to a recital, and the language is contradictory and would be worrying if it were ever challenged in court. there has been further weakening of the text with the change of the legal basis, environmental considerations relegated to the recitals, and the crucial liability scheme being removed. for countries such as ireland, where the agriculture sector is vital, it is essential that opting out should be definitive. in order for me to vote in favour of this report, opting out would have to be absolutely legally watertight, and i do not believe this legislation makes it so.
the next item is the vote. (for the results and other details of the vote: see minutes)
that concludes the vote.
in writing. — i abstained in the vote on the report entitled ‘protocol to the euro-mediterranean agreement between the ec and tunisia to take account of the accession of bulgaria and romania to the eu’. i did so because much of the euro-mediterranean agreement is effectively a classic free-trade agreement, which imposes liberalisation and privatisation on the people of the country concerned, and about which i have serious concerns. however, although i do not favour the euro-mediterranean agreement itself, it does already exist and this vote only amends it to allow for the accession of romania and bulgaria, which i recognise. for these reasons i abstained.
in writing. - i voted abstention on the report "protocol to the euro-mediterranean agreement between the ec and tunisia to take account of the accession of bulgaria and romania to the eu". i did so because much of the euro-mediterranean agreement is affectively a classic free trade agreement which imposes liberalisation and privatisation on the people of that country and which i have serious concerns about. however although i do not favour the euro-mediterranean agreement itself, it does already exist and this vote only amends it to allow for the accession of romania and bulgaria, which i recognise. for these reasons i voted abstention.
madam president, this report provided a great opportunity to protect european standards and the gmo status of countries like ireland. this report could have acted in the best interests of citizens and instead it has moved towards the interests of biotech companies. other groups and parties in this parliament may be willing to succumb to pressures from the council to basically rush through legislation, but we in sinn féin and others cannot stand over this legislation or any that slyly offers dangerous loopholes to private companies. i want to commend my party colleague lynn boylan who, as shadow rapporteur on this report, has clearly outlined the position of the vast majority of irish and european citizens. we will continue to press for absolute clarity that member states will be in a position to ban gmos in the interests of our communities and of our local food and agriculture industries.
madam president, one of the questions i often ask myself in deciding how to vote is whether my vote will improve the current situation. i believe that my vote today in favour of this report is a positive step. the current situation, where member states can be sued by multinationals if they ban approved gms, is totally unacceptable. before today’s vote the commission could approve gm crops even though a majority of member states disagreed. we had the case where 19 member states rejected the commission proposal to approve the cultivation of a particular type of gm maize, pioneer 1507, yet it was approved, leaving member states open to being sued. now, however, we have the opportunity for member states to take those decisions individually. ireland can take the decision to ban gms, even though the commission might approve their use, and this is surely the most democratic outcome. after today’s vote, irish citizens can hold an irish agriculture minister to account for decisions on gm cultivation. i think this is a situation which the vast majority will support.
a uachtaráin, tá áthas orm a rá gur vótáil mé leis an tuarascáil seo agus le mo ghrúpa, an epp agus, mar a dúirt tú féin, bhí móramh cáilithe ag teastáil. is é sin níos mó ná 50 % de na feisirí sa pharlaimint. ach ó thaobh na vótála féin, vótáil 70 % i bhfabhar na tuarascála seo agus is deacair argóint leis sin mar tugann sé cead do bhallstáit pé rud is mian leo a dhéanamh bunaithe ar thaighde eolaíochta. inár dtír féin ní thugtar cead barraí gm a fhás agus ní dóigh liom go n-athrófar é sin go fada an lá. ach b’fhéidir go dtiocfaidh ballstáit eile ar chinneadh difriúil agus tugann sé seo an cead sin a dhéanamh. dá bhrí sin is dóigh liom gur dul chun cinn é cé nach bhfuil sé b’fhéidir go hiontach ag deireadh an lae.
in writing. — my constituents have expressed their concerns about the cultivation of gmo crops in the eu on many occasions. while the majority in parliament voted to allow individual eu member states to ban or adopt gmo cultivation, i voted against the proposal as the legislation will make the authorisation process for gmos easy to adopt.
in writing. — for such a controversial and sensitive question, we must leave the decision to cultivate gmos up to the member states. this is an historic breakthrough. after three years of stalemate between member states, we finally have a viable solution. exaggerated demands of the greens have been stopped. at last we know where we are heading. member states, regions, citizens, farmers and industry are finally getting legal certainty. our most important aim was to shape the option for a national ban in such a way that gmo corporations cannot challenge them legally. this compromise is well-balanced. we must take the concerns of consumers into consideration and their fears seriously.
in writing. — i voted in favour of the ries report on the possibility for the member states to restrict or prohibit the cultivation of gmos as it provides a legal basis for member states to restrict or prohibit gmo cultivation in their territory, even where such gmos have been authorised at eu level. grounds for prohibiting gmo cultivation may include agriculture policy objectives, land use, socio-economic impacts, public policy and co-existence. for the first time member states have legal certainty about the cultivation of gmos, giving them freedom to cultivate or not in line with their own wishes. the amending directive respects the principle of subsidiarity.
in writing. — i voted in favour of the ries report on the possibility for the member states to restrict or prohibit the cultivation of gmos, as it provides a legal basis for member states to restrict or prohibit gmo cultivation in their territory even where such gmos have been authorised at eu level. grounds for prohibiting gmo cultivation may include agriculture policy objectives, land use, socio-economic impacts, public policy and co-existence. for the first time member states have legal certainty about the cultivation of gmo, giving them freedom to cultivate or not in line with their own wishes. the amending directive respects the principle of subsidiarity.
madam president, one thing that we can all do immediately is to speed up the eu passenger name record (pnr) directive. it has been mentioned – and i agree with previous speakers – that organised crime was behind last week’s killings in paris. they were funded through organised crime and by organised crime. we need to act together: the institutions of europe need to act together, we need to share information, support one another at state level and also move forward on this directive, which would be a vital element in equipping our security services to combat organised crime and terrorism. organised crime is a threat to society, whether it be through drugs, drug importation, drug smuggling or arms smuggling. and, of course, trafficking in human beings is an extremely serious crime against human beings that we need to tackle. it is particularly so for europe, which values its protection of the individual. crime against children, and specifically cybercrime, is a major challenge. sexual abuse of children on line is a horrendous crime that needs to be tackled, and i would urge the commission and the council to ensure that the internet companies assume responsibility here and play their part in ensuring that we can work together to tackle this vile crime.
mr president, madam prime minister, i am disappointed that the programme of activities of the latvian presidency fails to offer in any real sense an alternative to the fiscal austerity policies which have been championed by all the european institutions for far too long. the programme, of course, endorses president juncker’s investment package without, on the other hand, any real commitment to move away from the austerity policies, which have basically caused absolute devastation to domestic economies across europe. there are now serious questions to answer in terms of how this investment package is going to be funded, for example. as it stands, the presidency programme provides little evidence that peripheral countries like ireland will benefit, in terms of jobs or economic growth, from the financial measures proposed in the package. what we really need is a rejection of austerity policies. we need, among other things, a new fiscal and social agenda to ensure that we have real and substantial economic growth for all the eu member states.
on behalf of the gue/ngl group. – mr president, it has been a devastating week in nigeria, with fatalities on an absolutely horrific scale, and our thoughts are obviously with those who are bereaved and who are caught up in the violence. the atrocities that were committed by boko haram in baga are utterly deplorable and, in fact, border on the unimaginable. more than 2 000 people were murdered over the course of a number of days, and the government and state security forces were simply unfit to intervene to save them. it has to be noted – as has already been said – that the nigerian state is not exempt from responsibility for the recent escalations through a series of deplorable human rights abuses. amnesty international, for example, believes that at least 950 suspected members of boko haram died as a result of overcrowding, starvation, brutality and extrajudicial executions while in state custody in nigeria in the first half of 2013 alone. having said that, nothing could possible excuse the actions of boko haram. to strap a bomb to a child and detonate it is a vile, indefensible act that has shocked probably even the most seasoned of conflict observers. so there is now a moral responsibility on us all to show the same outrage and invest the same resources in addressing the causes and consequences of these atrocities as we would if they were happening anywhere else in the world. in a week when this house rightly defended media freedom of speech, we must also state that international media organisations have a moral duty to bring the situation in nigeria to prominent public attention in europe and across the world, because only then will we force governments to contribute positively and in a measured manner to the quest for stability and justice in the region. ( the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8))
blue-card answer. – there is a comment that you have made that i would disagree with: perhaps to say that only a military solution would address the scourge of boco haram. i would question that. certainly there does need to be a security response, and yes, i believe that international companies have a responsibility. primary responsibility lies with the nigerian government. i believe that right across the world we need to show the same outcry – and that includes this house and the european institutions as well as the governments of member states – to ensure that these atrocities that we witnessed in the last week simply cannot happen and cannot go unnoticed. the reality is that there are citizens in our member states who do not even realise that these happened only a week ago.
before i give the floor to mr wałęsa for one-and-a-half minutes, can i just repeat the announcement to the chamber that we are not taking blue cards because of the time constraints on our debate. i do apologise for that, but that is the ruling of the previous chair and i am maintaining that.
madam president, unfortunately, yes, we have seen repeated violations of ceasefires of late and a very unstable security situation in ukraine. nonetheless i note the comments you have made that, since 9 december, there has been relative peace and the situation has become more calm. however, it is fragile and uncertain. like my colleagues, i want to see implementation of the minsk agreements. we need to stress that sanctions will be upheld if russia does not change its course of action. a commitment to ceasefire is necessary, and russian sanctions must only be eased or lifted after real progress in implementing the minsk ceasefire is made by the russians. i was very happy to see the result of the free and fair parliamentary elections, but now we must insist on swift implementation of necessary reforms in ukraine also. as leaders we have a duty to engage in an overall peace settlement. ramifications for the world from anything other than a lasting peace agreement are unthinkable. a dangerous distrust has built up between russia and the west. nevertheless i do note your comments that we need a less reactive and more proactive approach to russia – a more strategic discussion in eu-russian relations, but no easing of sanctions until we see change.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow, thursday, 15 january 2015 at 12.00. written statements (rule 162)
the next item is the debate on the council and commission statements on the launch of the european year for development (2014/2508(rsp)).
thank you, ms mogherini, for what has been a long day for you here in the chamber, but this is an important debate so we appreciate your presence.
i know that one of our colleagues has asked for the floor with a blue-card question but, colleagues, because the debates have overrun quite significantly i am not going to take any blue cards, which is fair to everybody. i am apologising in advance to those who wish to ask blue-card questions.
i note your comments on the arrangements for the debate and indeed ms mogherini’s comments. we shall pass those on to our colleagues.
mr president, as we heard yesterday, the egyptian foreign minister has said there is a possibility that the three al-jazeera journalists could be pardoned. i would ask you to spare a thought for their cellmate, irish teenager ibrahim halawa, who has been imprisoned without trial since august 2013. ibrahim, at 17, was a child when first arrested following the protests in cairo and has since been deemed a prisoner of conscience by amnesty international and reprieve. denied urgent medical attention for a gunshot wound to his hand following the protest, he is now permanently disfigured. he has been badly beaten and subjected to solitary confinement in prison. his trial has been postponed three times and today he still faces a mass trial, along with 493 other prisoners with whom he has been jointly charged, despite a complete lack of evidence. i would like to take this opportunity to remind the high representative of my requests to meet to discuss ibrahim’s case and the urgent need for his immediate and unconditional release.
a uachtaráin, ar dtús báire ba mhaith liom mo chomhghairdeachas a ghabháil le emily o’reilly as ucht an obair mhaith atá ar bun aici mar an tombudsman. aontaím leis an tuairisc sa mhéid agus go gcuirtear béim ar thábhacht na follasachta agus an dea-chleachtais laistigh de hinstitiúidí na heorpa agus ba chóir go mbeadh na prionsabail seo mar dhearbhthosaíocht i gcónaí. é sin ráite, measaim go raibh an rapóirtéir lag go leor i leith an choimisiúin agus gur sheas sí leo maidir leis an méid gearán a tháinig isteach fúthu. is cúis áifeála é go bhfuair oifig an ombudsman an méid sin gearán maidir le droch-chleachtas. mar aon leis sin, ceapaim go raibh sé lag maidir le frontex agus is beag tagairt a rinneadh don ‘revolving doorʼ agus do chásanna coinbhleachta sna hinstitiúidí ae. gan dabht, gan trácht ar na fadhbanna ollmhóra atá againn le ttip agus tá sé scannalach nach bhfuil a fhios ag na feisirí eorpacha cad go díreach atá ar bun acu ó thaobh na gcainteanna sin. mar fhocal scoir, ba mhaith liom a chuir in iúl gur chúis bhróid é domsa gur bean éireannach thú agus guím gach rath ort sa todhchaí agus san obair atá amach romhat.
madam president, firstly congratulations to the ombudsman on her reappointment: she is worthy of the position. ombudsman, i would like to bring to your attention a matter that has been totally ignored by the irish and the european media: the destruction of thousands of millions of euros. it began in march 2011, when three billion was destroyed, and resumed last year with the destruction of a further one billion in two tranches of 500 million each. this obscenity is the legacy of the bail-out in 2010 of the failed institutional investors in two failed non-systematic irish banks. it served its purpose, bought some time for the euro, prevented the onset of the feared contagion had those banks been allowed to fail. there was a fall-out, however. the insistence by the ecb that, because the irish central bank printed that money, that must now be taken back into circulation. so you have this obscene situation where a broke, hugely indebted country, where the austerity programme has already wrought havoc, especially among those who can least afford it, is forced to borrow thousands of millions to destroy. the social repercussions of the bank bail-out cost in ireland have been horrendous: record numbers lying on trolleys; growing numbers suffering from depression; growing numbers taking their own lives; a quarter of a million emigrating. i ask you, please, as a priority, to have a look at this abomination. you talk about confidence in the european institutions; people in ireland cannot have confidence until this changes.
a uachtaráin, mar éireannach, ba mhaith liom a rá go bhfuil mé bródúil as an obair atá á déanamh ag an ombudsman emily o’reilly agus gan dabht ar bith tá na feisirí go ginearálta an-sásta leis an obair atá déanta aici agus dar ndóigh ós rud é gur glacadh léi arís mar ombudsman don tréimhse atá romhainn d’aon ghuth, taispeánann sé sin go bhfuil jab an-mhaith á dhéanamh aici. tá sé an-tábhachtach go mbeadh duine sa bpost sin, duine a bheadh éirimiúil, tuisceanach, ciallmhar agus tá na tréithe sin go léir ag emily agus tá moladh tuillte aici. nuair a thagann daoine go dtí an tombudsman, bíonn siad in ísle brí. ceapann siad nach bhfuil cothrom na féinne ar fáil ina dtír féin nó san eoraip agus is iontach go bhfaigheann siad cothrom na féinne ó emily o’reilly agus oifig an ombudsman. dá bhrí sin, molaim í agus an fhoireann atá aici agus mar fhocal scoir, ba mhaith liom a rá le ming flanagan cé go bhfuil drochrudaí b’fhéidir ag tarlú in éirinn tá a lán dul chun cinn á dhéanamh ann chomh maith agus is fiú é sin a aithint freisin.
mr president, i wish to congratulate the ombudsman on the publication of her first annual report and also on the dynamism that she has brought to the role. it is important that the european institutions be very concerned about the actual number of complaints being received by the ombudsman’s office and, obviously, one of the most common themes of complaints is the lack of transparency. we are moving towards a very important period in the lifespan of this mandate. there is a real threat to democracy, in terms of international trade agreements and specifically the isds mechanisms and, with a certain regard, towards ttip. i want to commend the ombudsman on the initiation of a report on transparency around the ttip negotiations and i would stress that, if these agreements are ratified, they will not only compromise democratically-elected member states’ governments, they are also going to be setting a very dangerous precedent for how the eu council and commission view the issue of transparency in the long term.
mr president, like my colleague matt carthy, i also want to congratulate emily o’reilly on her first annual report, and indeed on her very positive start to her tenure in office. there are many issues raised in the report, but because of time constraints i will only deal with one. i support amendment 3, which raised the importance of resources, both for the committee on petitions and for the ombudsman’s office. the number of petitions continues to increase, as indeed do the queries to the ombudsman’s office. i believe that citizens look to the ombudsman’s office and the petitions committee as their conduit to the eu institutions. it is hugely important that any queries or petitions or investigations are conducted in a timely and efficient manner. in order to do that, adequate resources are required. so in my view it is a crucial issue, because a smoothly-functioning ombudsman’s office and petitions committee help create a much more positive image for the institutions.
a uachtaráin, ní rachaidh mise thar mo chuid ama ach an oiread ach a rá go bhfuil an-áthas orm gur glacadh leis an tuarascáil seo – díreach anois – le 572 as 675 a vótáil ina bhfabhar. tabharfaidh sé sin an-ghríosú don ombudsman emily o’reilly agus tá sé tuillte aici mar tá sí ag dul faoina cuid oibre le fuinneamh, le féaráilteacht agus le crógacht mar a thaispeáin sí go háirithe lena coinne maidir le ttip. luadh freisin go bhfuil an chuid is mó de na hagóidí ag teacht de bharr daoine a bheith míshásta faoi obair an choimisiúin agus má laghdaítear an obair sin mar atá ráite ag an uasal juncker, b’fhéidir nach mbeidh na hagóidí an méid céanna ag dul go dtí an tombudsman agus caithfidh go dtiocfaidh laghdú ar an obair a bheidh le déanamh aici amach anseo. tugann sé sin, is dóigh liom, gríosú do gach duine agus beidh rudaí níos fearr amach anseo.
in writing. — despite having some concerns i voted in favour of the ombudsman’s annual report 2013 as i recognise the fantastic work that emily o’reilly has carried out in her role as ombudsman, and so as to place on record my full support and confidence in her for the time ahead. i agreed with this report in the sense that it stressed the importance of transparency and good administration for the eu institutions. these principles should always be an absolute priority. it was worrying to note that 64.3% of the complaints received by her office concerned the european commission. i thought the rapporteur’s approach in relation to this was soft and found that he was trying to justify the number of complaints received. a strong line should have been taken against the actions of the european commission. i also believe that it was pretty weak on certain aspects, in particular as concerns frontex and ttip. in addition to this, there is little mention made of the ‘revolving door’ and cases of conflict of interest within the european institutions. the ‘revolving door’ practices in the european commission should absolutely be denounced, as should the lack of transparency and public participation in the ttip negotiations.
in writing. — there is much room for improvement on transparency standards across all eu institutions. this is reflected in the fact that the most common complaint from eu citizens received by the european ombudsman related to eu institutions’ refusal of access to documents. i particularly commend ombudsman emily o'reilly’s investigation into the lack of transparency in the ttip talks, and the vigorous conclusions and recommendations addressed to the commission, on foot of her own-initiative inquiry.
scríofa. — cé go raibh mé buartha faoi ghnéithe áirithe den tuarascáil seo, chaith mise vóta i bhfabhar thuarascáil bhliantúil an ombudsman 2013, mar aithním an sár-obair atá ar bun ag emily o’reilly agus í mar ombudsman agus chun a chur in iúl go bhfuil muinín agamsa aisti don téarma atá romhainn. aontaím leis an tuarascáil sa chaoi go gcuirtear béim ar thábhacht na follasachta agus an dea-chleachtais laistigh d’institiúidí na heorpa. ba chóir go mbeadh na prionsabail seo mar dearbhthosaíocht i gcónaí. ba chúis buartha é áfach go raibh 64.3% de na gearáin a fuair an oifig sin aici bainteach leis an gcoimisiún eorpach. is cúis aiféala go bhfuair a hoifig an méid sin gearán maidir le droch-chleachtas. measaim go raibh an rapóirtéir lag go leor i leith an choimisiúin agus gur sheas sé leis maidir leis an méid gearán a tháinig isteach faoi. mar aon leis sin, ceapaim go raibh sé lag maidir le frontex agus is beag rud a thagair don ‘revolving door’ agus do chásanna coinbhleachta in institiúidí ae.
i was pleased to vote with my group on all the amendments and, obviously, on the resolution here today. i think it is laudable what we have done in the european parliament in the past few months in helping ukraine, a country which is trying to move forward both democratically and also in economic terms. we have moved speedily and that is good. one thing i must say is that i was taken aback at the last part-session here in strasbourg when one mep suggested that by passing resolutions on ukraine we were heckling or goading, or almost insulting, russia. this is an absolute farce. ukraine is an independent country, and it is no business of russia or china or the usa or any other country what we do to help them. i hope we will continue to help them because they deserve it and we have resources that they may not have.
in writing. — the eu should be prepared to provide a strong and decisive answer to the ukrainian crisis resulting from russia’s waged aggression and occupation. it does a lot, but it is still not enough. we often do too little, too late, and in a shy manner. we are hiding behind the osce, the un, the red cross, and some member states. we are not calling things for what they are – war as war and terror as terror. by contributing to security in ukraine, the eu is providing security for itself. only determined and united eu and ukraine actions and russia’s return to the path of respect of the rights of its neighbours and of international law can offer a solution to the ukrainian crisis. russian terrorism on ukrainian territory should be fought with the same determination as any other form of terrorism, like for example islamic fundamentalism. at the same time, we should not close our communication channels with russia, bearing in mind that diplomatic solutions should be sought to resolve the conflict. we therefore support meetings in geneva or normandy formats if tangible results can be achieved
in writing. - i voted in favour of this motion for a resolution because i believe that ukraine needs strong support from the european union at this difficult time. armed conflict is still ongoing in the eastern regions of the country and i believe that the eu must act in solidarity with the people of ukraine and to protect its democratic sovereignty and independence.
mr president, i voted in favour of this resolution, but i would like to use the opportunity of my explanation of vote to raise once again the issue of the continued detention of ibrahim halawa. last july i raised this issue in the parliament here in strasbourg. and what we find in that period of time is that his trial has once again been postponed. it has now been postponed for the fourth time. he has been declared a prisoner of conscience by amnesty international, and the irish minister for foreign affairs, charlie flanagan, has expressed his deep concern about his detention. ibrahim halawa is an irish citizen. his detention, i believe, is a violation of the eu-egypt association agreement and is a clear breach of his human rights. furthermore, i believe ibrahim should not be tried as part of a group trial which involves a large number of defendants. he is entitled to be tried as an individual.
a uachtaráin, vótáil mé arís le mo ghrúpa sna vótaí go léir anseo agus glacadh leis an tuarascáil freisin. like my colleague marian harkin, i too spoke about the position of ibrahim halawa last july, and i want to reiterate it again today: his situation is not acceptable. this is basically a teenager who went to egypt and got caught up in the protests there. his three sisters were with him; they were allowed to go home but he has been detained ever since. he is awaiting a mass trial, as marian pointed out. we would again earnestly ask the egyptian authorities to return him to ireland so that he can pursue his studies, and let us watch his development from there. i think that would be the best course of action. hopefully it can be done.
in writing. — i abstained on this motion for resolution on egypt. i was disappointed that reference to the case of ibrahim halawa was not included in the joint motion. sinn féin was successful in including his case in the gue/ngl resolution and it is regrettable that the joint motion does not mention him. as a prisoner of conscience who was imprisoned as a child following protests in august 2013, his case is an important example of the brutal repression of human rights, including the freedom of expression. i also regret that there was an emphasis on egypt as a strategic partner for trade and security for the european union. relations between the eu and third countries should not be predicated on trade issues – egypt’s citizens are currently experiencing severe repressions of their democratic rights to freedom of expression, speech and association. concern for the violation of their democratic rights should not be diluted by mentioning trade concerns.
in writing. - i abstained on this motion for a resolution on egypt. i was disappointed that reference to the case of ibrahim halawa was not included in the joint motion. sinn féin was successful in including his case in the gue/ngl resolution and it is regrettable that the joint motion does not mention him. as a prisoner of conscience who was imprisoned as a child following protests in august 2013, his case is an important example of the brutal repression of human rights, including the freedom of expression. i also regret that there was an emphasis on egypt as a strategic partner for trade and security for the european union. relations between the eu and third countries should not be predicated on trade issues – egypt’s citizens are currently experiencing severe repression of their democratic rights to freedom of expression, speech and association. concern for the violation of their democratic rights should not be diluted by mentioning trade concerns.
in writing. — the ongoing restrictions of human rights in egypt under the rule of field marshal abdel fattah al-sisi are of serious concern to the eu and we call for the immediate release of those detained for exercising their freedom of speech. the eu must work to secure the release of 19-year old dublin teenager ibrahim halawa, who has been imprisoned without trial since august 2013.
in writing. — two years ago we were all very enthusiastic about the arab spring and excited about the birth of a new democracy, but i am afraid we are slipping back into an islamist winter. the transition is difficult and will take a long time in egypt, therefore you need patience, determination and solidarity. in order to establish a good partnership between egypt, the epp group and the european union, we must share some basic values. the eu should not only give money for unclear purposes. we need to be attentive to what is going on in egypt. the status of christians is of particular interest; however, apart from that, the eu is looking to ensure the respect of human dignity for everybody, and the respect of minorities, which is based on this principle as well. we should be talking about a ‘civilisational dialogue’
in writing. - i voted in favour of this joint motion for a resolution as i believe the eu has a responsibility to work to promote democracy and open society in egypt. although it was not included in the text of the joint motion, i believe that the eu should call for the immediate release of irish teenager ibrahim halawa, who has been detained in egypt without trial since august 2013.
in writing. — i abstained on this motion for resolution on egypt. i was disappointed that reference to the case of ibrahim halawa was not included in the joint motion. sinn féin was successful in including his case in the gue/ngl resolution and it is regrettable that the joint motion does not mention him. as a prisoner of conscience who was imprisoned as a child following protests in august 2013, his case is an important example of the brutal repression of human rights, including the freedom of expression. i also regret that there was an emphasis on egypt as a strategic partner for trade and security for the european union. relations between the eu and third countries should not be predicated on trade issues – egypt’s citizens are currently experiencing severe repressions of their democratic rights to freedom of expression, speech and association. concern for the violation of their democratic rights should not be diluted by mentioning trade concerns.
a uachtaráin, bhí sé suimiúil nár éirigh le haon ghrúpa tromlach a fháil dá rún anseo inniu ach bíodh sin mar atá, tá obair le déanamh againn agus tá plean againn ón uachtarán juncker. i must say that the commission is going to be judged on the success of its plans, and there are three particularly strong areas. one: cutting red tape. two: less legislation, particularly at the european level, that can best be done at national or local level under subsidiarity. three: the investment plan. president juncker and the commission never said they were going to invest over eur 300 billion themselves. it is all predicated on being able to leverage private investment. some people are sceptical, some are not, but i think it behoves us all to try and give as much support as we can to try and make this happen so that europe can become more competitive and we can get back to jobs and growth and a better quality of life for everybody.
in writing. — i voted in favour of paragraph 23, b8-0035/2015, to register my concerns on poor air quality and health.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this motion for resolution as i believe it is vital that the european parliament condemn actions that disregard the freedom of the media. freedom of speech and freedom of the media are core democratic principles, ones which the eu is founded upon and ones which should be defended at all times. a free press is an essential part of any functioning democracy.
in writing. — i feel that at this point in time, the intention of the turkish authorities is no longer clear - do they still want to join the eu or not? do they still want to build a democratic, free society? those in the turkish society that support eu accession, and particularly businessmen, are extremely worried about the independence of the judiciary and the freedom of the press. more than anything, this should raise the alarm about the recent events to all those who support the european future of this country. i call once again on the european commission to establish clear benchmarks for the opening of negotiations on chapters 23 and 24 on justice and fundamental rights, because in doing so the european union could contribute constructively to the debate on these issues in turkey. we need the cooperation of the turkish authorities for this to be successful.
mr president, can i make a request to the conference of presidents? one of the most important opportunities for meps is that provided by the one-minute speeches, where we can raise issues of particular interest to our own constituencies or to the european union. half an hour at each part-session is a very short period of time and i would ask that the rules be changed so that the conference would have an opportunity to extend that to one hour when time allows.
on behalf of the gue/ngl group. – mr president, it is almost exactly two years after the horsemeat scandal exploded across europe, and we are still calling on the slumbering commission to wake up and propose legislation for origin labelling for all meat, including meat as an ingredient. the horsemeat scandal was the biggest food fraud of the 21st century, and it exposed the lengthy, complex, and often very murky extremes of food chains in europe. that some of the biggest supermarkets were able to just apologise, and claim they didn’t know where the meat came from, is astounding. whilst this scandal was – as rightly pointed out – caused by criminal activity, it underlined the extremely poor levels of traceability in the food chain, for consumers to know where their food is coming from. ninety percent of consumers want to know the origin of their meat, both fresh and processed. this is a demand which has pre-dated the horsemeat scandal, and it still goes unfulfilled. the european commission needs to stop being apologists for the corporate food industry and start acting to defend and represent the interests of the citizens that they supposedly work for. it would do well to avoid bleating out the big food industries’ arguments against and seek to implement as soon as possible what citizens and consumer groups have been calling for for years. the commission claims, in its 2013 report – we have heard it here – that the production costs could increase by anything up to 50%. we know that the consumer groups have shown that the opposite is true. let us not forget that, when it was introducing country-of-origin labelling for meat – unprocessed meat – we heard these same arguments. in ireland, our voluntary labelling scheme, which includes meat and processed meals, has been a remarkable success, with almost 40 000 producers and 122 processors currently involved; this is a perfect example of the appeal and benefit to businesses such labelling can have. in fact, it is so successful that now what we have, because of the absence of mandatory labelling, is dishonest food manufacturers giving misleading representations of where the food comes from, labelling them as irish recipes, traditional, farmhouse and local. so the european commission needs to stop sticking its head in the sand and start listening to what consumers want.
mr president, here is a really radical thought for the commission: the whole concept that the customer might be right. that seems to stick in the commission’s throat. it seems to be a problem for it. at the moment we are being asked to make a decision on very shaky information. the information that we have from the commission has come from enterprise and business self-reporting. how on earth can we trust that? i trust the consumers, and the consumers say that they want this. one thing, though, that we have to be wary about, and i do agree with the liberal member who spoke earlier, is that this cannot be too onerous and too burdensome for the producers, because it will not be the big producers that will be hurt, because they will have the money to do this; it will be the small producers. but it is quite clear that the public wants this and surely the public should get what it wants. i know the commission very rarely does it, but how about making it a first here?
mr president, can i just say that i do not quite see this debate as it has been framed by many here this evening, that is about it being industry versus consumers. i do not think it is as black and white as that. i also do not think it is any surprise that when we ask consumers if they want the country of origin labelling they will say yes, and i do not think it is any surprise that they are not prepared to pay more for it, but in my view this debate should be much more about the sustainability of the food supply chain. in my view, reputable food producers, whether of products with processed meats or otherwise, have sustainable long-term relationships with their suppliers and therefore should not have the need to switch and swap between those suppliers. that is how i come to this debate. i am torn between the debate about what consumers want and what they are prepared to pay for. i do not see this on the commission’s work programme for this year. i think it requires more debate but i would ask us to do it in the context of the sustainability of the food supply chain, above all else, and having these long-term supplier relationships. lastly, can i say that on the issue of fraud you can stick on a fraudulent label. the issue of food fraud will only be tackled when we monitor and control the food supply chain adequately.
mr president, this debate is about a better balance between greater consumer information and the cost burden of any measures that would be proposed. i have heard many comments tonight about big industry versus the consumer. i do not think it is about big industry really, when you see the costs that the commission has put forward in terms of the cost of providing the labelling of food origin. i think we need to look at and focus on the small and medium enterprises, who i speak to regularly, who are involved in processing of food. they say that this will result in increased cost to them in producing the products they produce and then ultimately to the consumer, because the consumer is always the bottom of the chain and will certainly absorb these costs. i think really it is the small and medium businesses along this route, the businesses to whom we promised that this commission would not introduce more red tape – would use better regulation and not more regulation – who need to be the centre of this debate. i am not convinced that mandatory labelling will protect the consumer. as i said, this is not a food safety issue, it is a consumer information issue, but also it is about the price to the consumer. that needs to be the centre of our deliberations tonight.
mr president, in ireland we have a joke that if a stranger asks you for directions and the route is very complicated, you might answer by saying: ‘if i were you i would not start from here’. well it is the same with the current crisis: a currency still not fit for purpose, a europe where trust between countries and citizens is fast eroding, and politicians in all member states make promises they cannot keep and/or tell their edited version of the truth to their citizens. yes, there were reckless borrowers and some lived beyond their means, but equally, there were reckless lenders and tons of cash fuelled by low interest rates to suit some member states flowed across european borders in a torrent. those who were lucky enough to grab a lifeboat should now help the other survivors to clamber aboard or at least throw a lifebuoy. the solution will not be just between germany and greece; we need a european solution – one that does not promote moral hazard but one that is sustainable for all member states. yes, we would prefer not to start from here, but we are here and we must start.
on behalf of the alde group. – madam president, i would like to express my concern at the continuing disagreement on the interpretation of convention no 87, the ilo convention on the freedom of association and protection of the right to organise. it now appears that employer groups within the ilo no longer support the interpretation of the committee of experts on this particular convention. the jurisprudence of the ilo has stood for 60 years on this convention and has interpreted the right to strike as an intrinsic corollary to the right to organise. this right has been recognised internationally as a fundamental right of workers and their organisations. the freedom to associate, to organise, to bargain collectively, make it possible to ensure decent working conditions. collective bargaining is a mechanism that helps to ensure beneficial outcomes for workers and productive solutions for employers. collective bargaining can only be achieved by the freedom to organise, and one of those freedoms is the right to strike – as a last resort, to withdraw labour. without that right it is like having really good legislation in place but no sanctions for non-compliance. collective bargaining has no proper foundation without the right to strike. with regard to the current situation, as the commissioner said, there will be a tripartite meeting at the end of february to try to resolve the current impasse. you, commissioner, have outlined very clearly the current situation and the willingness of the commission to support all players by supplying information from the eu, where the right to strike is fundamental. however, cases like rüffert, laval, etc. and the thorny issue of the posting of workers may have sown some of the seeds of this dissent, and we need to finally sort out that matter. but i am heartened to hear of your commitment to finding a resolution. at a global level it is crucial.
madam president, let me say first of all i fully support the commissioner’s initiative to significantly increase the amount of pre-financing that is available to member states to implement the youth employment initiative (yei). you saw that there was painfully slow progress and you reacted. well done on that. as we are all aware, and as you mentioned, the youth unemployment rate is over 50% in greece and spain, and only three member states – austria, the netherlands and denmark – have rates below 10%. we know those figures, but every time we read them, they still shock us. my own country, ireland, has an unemployment rate of 22%, and we have the safety valve of emigration. we will get an allocation of 68 million in ireland for the yei and a further 68 million under the social fund. i think it is important to say that this pre-financing – all of this money – is available to member states and it can be used to support, not just the provision of traineeships and internships and apprenticeships, further education, training, etc., but also business set-up, support for entrepreneurs and targeted wage and recruitment subsidies. last week i met the youth sections of the european federation of public services unions and the irish civil and public services union. they emphasised to me the need to deal with demand as well as supply and pointed out that virtually no jobs are being created in the public service in ireland. i know that the youth employment initiative cannot deal with this specifically, but it is crucial that money spent under the youth employment initiative delivers real outcomes and real jobs. not just training and up-skilling – yes, that’s important – but also a significant increase in employment.
mr president, in ireland last week we heard that youth unemployment is once again on the rise. coupled with the mass emigration of over 160 000 youths since the crash, a lost generation of young people is being created. the european union’s attempt to address these devastating levels of youth unemployment across europe has been marred by a lack of ambition, funds and understanding. the eur 6 billion allocated to the youth guarantee is a mere drop in the ocean. if europe’s leaders were less concerned with making themselves look good and more serious about getting young people into work, they would have created a properly funded scheme of at least eur 21 billion, as recommended by the ilo. as it is, the scheme is simply once again paying lip service to our jobless youths. yes, the commission should frontload the eur 1 billion but, without a well-funded system in place, young people are once again being offered overall an empty promise and not a guarantee of proper employment.
mr president, i just have a query regarding catch-the-eye. i was here for the last debate, i did not speak. i was here for the entirety of this debate and at the very outset – i could not do it any quicker – i bid for catch-the-eye. you were not presiding then. most of the assistants around you were not presiding then. i want to know what criteria you used to select those you chose for catch-the-eye. one colleague said to me that i should try the lotto as i would have a better chance. i also want to understand why it is that when members come in here and spend their time here and are told that they need to be here at the beginning to get called, they do not get called. it is not very pleasant. you seem to know some of those you were calling pretty well, which is all very fine, but i would like to know, since you were not here presiding at the beginning of this debate, what intelligence was brought to bear in choosing those you called to catch-the-eye. secondly, as we do not have votes today, why did you not allow some more catch-the-eyes, and how many of those who bid did you not actually call to speak on this most important topic for all of us, and particularly those of us in countries like mine where there is very high youth unemployment?
mr president, already this morning we discussed the right to strike and the need to create new jobs to tackle youth unemployment. our current discussion on the promotion of employee financial participation has some potential to help deal with both issues. as a worker and an employer, you are much more likely to recognise the rights and duties of all partners, and employee ownership schemes have some potential to create more and better jobs. however, for me one matter is paramount, and that is the potential that employee financial participation has to ensure a better share-out of the wealth that is being created by employment. the gap between workers and those with wealth continues to grow, and employee financial participation can help bridge that gap. today we asked a number of questions of the commission, and while we were told about an action plan and about risks, etc., i am still waiting to hear specific, concrete actions. listening to all the colleagues, it is clear that employee financial participation varies significantly from one member state to another, with a glowing report from the uk. i agree with ms mcintyre in that we need the commission to create, first of all, an environment that is conducive to the take-up of these schemes, and secondly, the flourishing of these companies. you, as commissioner, have an opportunity to make a real difference here after years and years of talking. i look forward to hearing your proposals.
blue-card question. – ms seymour, your arguments would make sense were it not for the fact that your own country has a jurisdiction in ireland which comprises, along the county that i come from, around 500 regional and local roads which it would be impossible to enforce any sort of border control over. do you not, therefore, accept that there is a need to have some form of a system in place that allows drivers travelling into one or the other jurisdiction to live up to their responsibilities under road safety regulations?
madam president, i think it is very important that we set a legal basis and ensure that there is no gap through which those who commit traffic offences in another jurisdiction can escape. for many years, drivers could act with impunity whilst driving on our roads relatively safe in the knowledge that they would not be prosecuted. that is all to change now and i welcome it. this directive is above all about safety, and i welcome the cross-party support it has received going through the committee on transport and tourism, of which i am a member. i want to commend the rapporteur ms ayala sender, and indeed our shadow rapporteur, georges bach, on their work. according to an eec impact assessment study, these new proposals will save between 350 and 400 road deaths per year. i do not think anybody can argue with that statistic in terms of the work we are doing here in ensuring that those lives are saved – not to mention the horrific injuries that we also have on our roads. this directive will save lives, but it will also bring europe together in our common goal of saving lives on our roads and ensuring that we want to be one integrated europe. we cannot have one law for domestic drivers and another for foreign drivers who choose to break the law. the eight traffic offences that have been covered are, i am sure, the most common. i know safety belts were mentioned and i would like to think that when we speak of safety belts we speak of ensuring that adults ensure that children are secure and have proper restraints in place. we have made considerable progress and i know, madam commissioner, it is one of your priorities to reduce deaths on our roads. in 1990, there were 76 000 deaths on european roads, and last year 26 000. that is considerable progress, but still a lot more needs to be done. i look forward to working with you, madam commissioner, over the next five years as you set out to improve road safety for all our citizens.
member of the commission. ladies and gentlemen, please believe that i am as outraged and shocked as you are that this practice persists in such huge numbers not only outside of europe, but also in europe. i only recently became aware of these numbers, and i really did not know that this barbaric practice was so deeply rooted on our continent. i looked at all the different tools that europe has and the tools that the member states have, and i have to say that there is legislation on the part of the member states that gives the possibility to prosecute this practice, if there is no specific mention in the criminal code of this particular form of mutilation, then there is always the crime of serious harm to health with lasting consequences, which is highly sanctioned in all the criminal laws of european countries, so i was really surprised how little use is made of this legal possibility of prosecuting this barbaric crime. we are talking about zero tolerance for female circumcision. and yet, when we talk about zero tolerance for crime, we feel like it's taken for granted. zero tolerance for crime, that's something that's not up for discussion. when we talk about zero tolerance for female genital mutilation, i've come across arguments like, "oh, well, it's tradition", in my consultations on this issue. it's something that's been around for centuries and it can't just be eradicated. i will be the first to stand for the preservation of cultural traditions and multiculturalism, but not for the preservation of a tradition that is in direct contradiction to the law that has its place in the eu. so again, the tools are there, both the criminal law and the asylum directive, which are in place, which we monitor, and which give the member states a direct obligation to deal with the asylum procedure with the vulnerable groups of those who come to europe to seek asylum, and specifically, there is a concern or attention directed towards women and women who are at risk from this practice. so we have the legislation in place. i think the eu should whatever it says here that we have no right to put pressure on member states appeal to member states to make better use of the legal instruments that already exist and to be swift in punishing this practice. what we're missing is data. it also said that we can't fight strongly enough and convincingly enough against something that we don't actually know how big it is, and we don't have a map of it. i could read here, and i do not want to delay, the statistics we have from the member states where this problem is very serious. it's just amazing to me that we have the most recent data from 2007 somewhere. so that means, on the one hand, we don't have fresh data, and i don't understand why we're not trying to get better mapping of this problem and more fresh data. and on the other hand, we have numbers that are probably just estimates, because, as i've been pointed out, it's really hard to collect this data. so it's up to us to focus on this issue in collaboration with eige, and you know that i spoke here a while ago about how we're working on a new strategy for gender equality, and that a significant chapter here will be a chapter on fighting violence against women. and what we're going to be doing here is we're going to be preparing or actually creating that action plan that will bring the specific steps that we're going to take. but in my experience, an action plan won't be reliable enough unless we have a reliable database. so this is where we have to start, and as i said at the beginning, we're already working on it. i would like to conclude by saying that i think this question or this problem will be repeated here from time to time, because it is a very serious problem indeed, and i will be available not only here in the plenary, but also in the interim to give information on how the commission is proceeding. i understand all of you calling for concrete steps and concrete action.
in writing. – we urge the commission to take concrete steps in order to eradicate the practice of female genital mutilation (fgm) in the european union. around 120 million women and young girls in the world have been the victims of such horrible mutilations. it is time now that all women at risk of fgm in the eu should be protected, as it is recognised as a violation of human rights of girls and women. this practice brings no health benefits and only harms the human body, carrying long-term consequences and health risks. that is why asylum must be granted to those at risk from fgm and we must enact legislation prohibiting fgm. preventive measures to stop violence against women and girls are also vital and we should promote and support action taken at the individual member state level.
madam president, my role in tonight’s debate is really to address the work i do as the parliament’s international parental child abduction mediator and it is in that context that i would say the following. the theory behind the hague convention is that it is a perfect instrument, but in practice it is not so. the length of time is now much longer for children to be returned than the 42 days that is recommended. equally with brussels ii – and i would ask the commission to take on board our request to have this review of its implementation, because member states differ in interpretation, and indeed in their commitment to this issue. the committee on petitions is a good barometer of what is happening across the member states on this issue. my office receives at least one contact from a distressed parent every single week. we help where we can by mediating, but i believe that this issue is much greater than we understand, and i think that this parliament has a duty of care to be involved in it and to make things happen.
in writing. — i voted in favour of this proposal as its implementation will provide for greater legal certainty and clarity. the proposal relates primarily to the codification of legal texts. this is important because if you do not codify texts, the several amended former versions of the texts remain. codification is, in a nutshell, a simplification. any proposal that provides greater legal clarity and transparency should be welcomed, as it is the complex nature of such texts that frequently leads to unnecessary legal challenges, often at the taxpayers’ expense.
in writing. — this is in the best interests of both the european economic community and the republic of iceland.
scríofa. — chaith mise vóta i bhfabhar an togra seo toisc go gciallóidh cur i bhfeidhm a leithéid go mbeidh níos mó soiléireachta agus deimhneacht dhlíthiúil ann. tá an togra seo bainteach le téacsanna dlíthiúla a chódú. tá sé seo tábhachtach mar mura ndéantar códú ar an téacs, an rud a bhíonn agat ná an t-iar-théacs le an-chuid leaganacha leasaithe. simpliú atá i gceist leis an gcódú. ba chóir fáilte a chuir roimh aon togra a chuireann níos mó soiléireachta dlíthiúla agus follasacht i bhfeidhm toisc gurb as téacsanna de chineál casta dá leithéid seo a thagann agóidí dlíthiúla nach bhfuil riachtanach ar chor a bith, agus go minic a bhíonn ar chostas an cháiníocóra.
mr president, we voted in favour of all these reports as they allow for the accession of a number of countries to the 1980 hague convention on the civil aspects of international child abduction. these need to be welcomed as it will help extend the legal framework to countries that are not presently covered by the hague convention. in real terms this will provide a pragmatic solution where a child has been abducted and taken to another country without the consent of the parents. furthermore, the overarching principle of these reports provides that the welfare of the child should be the first and foremost consideration in childcare proceedings, which is something we all should ensure is paramount at all times.
in writing. — i voted in favour of the accession of gabon to the hague convention, as this proposal will assist authorities in returning wrongfully removed children, and will help to address issues of conflict of laws (competence of courts). in real terms, it will provide a pragmatic solution where a child has been abducted and taken to another country without the consent of one of the parents. furthermore, the overarching principle of the proposal is that the welfare of the child – something that should always be paramount – should be the first and foremost consideration in child care proceedings. that is why it was necessary to support this proposal.
in writing. — i voted in favour of the accession of gabon to the hague convention, as this proposal will assist authorities in returning wrongfully removed children, and will help to address issues of conflict of laws (competence of courts). in real terms, it will provide a pragmatic solution where a child has been abducted and taken to another country without the consent of one of the parents. furthermore, the overarching principle of the proposal is that the welfare of the child – something that should always be paramount – should be the first and foremost consideration in child care proceedings. that is why it was necessary to support this proposal.
in writing. — the hague convention of 25 october 1980 on the civil aspects of international child abduction is a vitally important instrument. it has been ratified by all the eu member states. the convention introduces a system of cooperation between the contracting states aimed at settling cases of international child abduction. in many instances, these problems arise when a couple has separated. if the mother and father are from different states, there is a temptation to exploit the lack of cooperation between those states in order to secure custody of the child. the biggest problem in such cases is the differences between the legal systems of individual states. it may often be that the courts in both of the states concerned declare themselves competent, with each of them awarding custody of the child to the parent who is a national of their state. the purpose of the convention is to resolve such situations at an international level.
scríofa. — chaith mise vóta i bhfabhar aontachas na gabúine le coinbhinsiún apastaile na háige mar go gcabhróidh an togra seo leis na húdaráis na páistí sin a tugadh chun siúil go héagórach a thabhairt ar ais. cabhróidh an togra seo le gnéithe atá bainteach le coinbhleacht dlí chomh maith. cuirfidh sé seo réiteach pragmatach ar fáil i gcásanna inar tógadh páistí ó thír amháin go tír eile gan cead faighte, ar a laghad, ó cheann amháin de na tuismitheoirí. mar aon leis sin, is é an príomhphrionsabal den togra seo ná chun a chinntiú gurb é leas an pháiste an rud is tábhachtaí in aon imeacht dlíthiúil. creidim gur chóir dó seo a bheith mar thosaíocht i gcónaí. sin an fáth go raibh sé tábhachtach domsa mo thacaíocht a thabhairt don togra seo.
mr president, i referred to this in my previous speech, and i will not speak on all these votes, but just to clarify for the benefit of members who have indicated their opposition: nobody is suggesting that today’s votes are going to solve all the problems in relation to child abduction. what we are saying – those of us who voted in favour of these resolutions – is that this is an important aspect in terms of international law. we have to ensure that what measures can be put in place, through international cooperation to ensure the safety of children, will be put in place. that is why we supported these resolutions.
in writing. — i voted in favour of the accession of andorra to the hague convention, as this proposal will assist authorities in returning wrongfully removed children, and will help to address issues of conflict of laws (competence of courts). in real terms, it will provide a pragmatic solution where a child has been abducted and taken to another country without the consent of one of the parents. furthermore, the overarching principle of the proposal is that the welfare of the child – something that should always be paramount – should be the first and foremost consideration in child care proceedings. that is why it was necessary to support this proposal.
in writing. — the hague convention of 25 october 1980 on the civil aspects of international child abduction is a vitally important instrument. it has been ratified by all the eu member states. the convention introduces a system of cooperation between the contracting states aimed at settling cases of international child abduction. in many instances, these problems arise when a couple has separated. if the mother and father are from different states, there is a temptation to exploit the lack of cooperation between those states in order to secure custody of the child. the biggest problem in such cases is the differences between the legal systems of individual states. it may often be that the courts in both of the states concerned declare themselves competent, with each of them awarding custody of the child to the parent who is a national of their state. the purpose of the convention is to resolve such situations at an international level.
in writing. — i voted in favour of the accession of the seychelles to the hague convention, as this proposal will assist authorities in returning wrongfully removed children, and will help to address issues of conflict of laws (competence of courts). in real terms, it will provide a pragmatic solution where a child has been abducted and taken to another country without the consent of one of the parents. furthermore, the overarching principle of the proposal is that the welfare of the child – something that should always be paramount – should be the first and foremost consideration in child care proceedings. that is why it was necessary to support this proposal.
in writing. — the hague convention of 25 october 1980 on the civil aspects of international child abduction is a vitally important instrument. it has been ratified by all the eu member states. the convention introduces a system of cooperation between the contracting states aimed at settling cases of international child abduction. in many instances, these problems arise when a couple has separated. if the mother and father are from different states, there is a temptation to exploit the lack of cooperation between those states in order to secure custody of the child. the biggest problem in such cases is the differences between the legal systems of individual states. it may often be that the courts in both of the states concerned declare themselves competent, with each of them awarding custody of the child to the parent who is a national of their state. the purpose of the convention is to resolve such situations at an international level.
in writing. — i voted in favour of the accession of russia to the hague convention, as this proposal will assist authorities in returning wrongfully removed children, and will help to address issues of conflict of laws (competence of courts). in real terms, it will provide a pragmatic solution where a child has been abducted and taken to another country without the consent of one of the parents. furthermore, the overarching principle of the proposal is that the welfare of the child – something that should always be paramount – should be the first and foremost consideration in child care proceedings. that is why it was necessary to support this proposal.
in writing. — the hague convention of 25 october 1980 on the civil aspects of international child abduction is a vitally important instrument. it has been ratified by all the eu member states. the convention introduces a system of cooperation between the contracting states aimed at settling cases of international child abduction. in many instances, these problems arise when a couple has separated. if the mother and father are from different states, there is a temptation to exploit the lack of cooperation between those states in order to secure custody of the child. the biggest problem in such cases is the differences between the legal systems of individual states. it may often be that the courts in both of the states concerned declare themselves competent, with each of them awarding custody of the child to the parent who is a national of their state. the purpose of the convention is to resolve such situations at an international level.
in writing. — i voted in favour of the accession of albania to the hague convention, as this proposal will assist authorities in returning wrongfully removed children, and will help to address issues of conflict of laws (competence of courts). in real terms, it will provide a pragmatic solution where a child has been abducted and taken to another country without the consent of one of the parents. furthermore, the overarching principle of the proposal is that the welfare of the child – something that should always be paramount – should be the first and foremost consideration in child care proceedings. that is why it was necessary to support this proposal.
in writing. — the hague convention of 25 october 1980 on the civil aspects of international child abduction is a vitally important instrument. it has been ratified by all the eu member states. the convention introduces a system of cooperation between the contracting states aimed at settling cases of international child abduction. in many instances, these problems arise when a couple has separated. if the mother and father are from different states, there is a temptation to exploit the lack of cooperation between those states in order to secure custody of the child. the biggest problem in such cases is the differences between the legal systems of individual states. it may often be that the courts in both of the states concerned declare themselves competent, with each of them awarding custody of the child to the parent who is a national of their state. the purpose of the convention is to resolve such situations at an international level.
a uachtaráin, bhí mé sásta vótáil ar son na tuarascála seo agus ar son na dtuarascálacha eile a bhaineann le coinbhinsiún na háige 1980. mar a dúirt mo chomhghleacaí éireannach matt carthy, aon rud a chabhraíonn le slándáil ár leanaí a chinntiú caithfimid a bheith ina fhabhar. an fáth go bhfuil mé ag labhairt faoi shingeapór in ionad na dtíortha eile ná go bhfuilim i mo rapóirtéir ar an margadh saorthrádála idir an taontas agus singeapór. chun aon mhargadh saorthrádála a shíniú, ba chóir go mbeadh gach rud i gceart agus dar ndóigh tá maidir le singeapór agus táim sásta faoi sin. is léir freisin go raibh an chuid is mó de na feisirí ó gach taobh den pharlaimint i bhfabhar na tuarascála seo. sin mar ba chóir, agus sin rud eile a thaispeánann go bhfuilimid dáiríre faoin ábhar seo.
in writing. — i voted in favour of the accession of singapore to the hague convention, as this proposal will assist authorities in returning wrongfully removed children, and will help to address issues of conflict of laws (competence of courts). in real terms, it will provide a pragmatic solution where a child has been abducted and taken to another country without the consent of one of the parents. furthermore, the overarching principle of the proposal is that the welfare of the child – something that should always be paramount – should be the first and foremost consideration in child care proceedings. that is why it was necessary to support this proposal.
in writing. — the hague convention of 25 october 1980 on the civil aspects of international child abduction is a vitally important instrument. it has been ratified by all the eu member states. the convention introduces a system of cooperation between the contracting states aimed at settling cases of international child abduction. in many instances, these problems arise when a couple has separated. if the mother and father are from different states, there is a temptation to exploit the lack of cooperation between those states in order to secure custody of the child. the biggest problem in such cases is the differences between the legal systems of individual states. it may often be that the courts in both of the states concerned declare themselves competent, with each of them awarding custody of the child to the parent who is a national of their state. the purpose of the convention is to resolve such situations at an international level.
in writing. — i voted in favour of the accession of morocco to the hague convention, as this proposal will assist authorities in returning wrongfully removed children, and will help to address issues of conflict of laws (competence of courts). in real terms, it will provide a pragmatic solution where a child has been abducted and taken to another country without the consent of one of the parents. furthermore, the overarching principle of the proposal is that the welfare of the child – something that should always be paramount – should be the first and foremost consideration in child care proceedings. that is why it was necessary to support this proposal.
in writing. — the hague convention of 25 october 1980 on the civil aspects of international child abduction is a vitally important instrument. it has been ratified by all the eu member states. the convention introduces a system of cooperation between the contracting states aimed at settling cases of international child abduction. in many instances, these problems arise when a couple has separated. if the mother and father are from different states, there is a temptation to exploit the lack of cooperation between those states in order to secure custody of the child. the biggest problem in such cases is the differences between the legal systems of individual states. it may often be that the courts in both of the states concerned declare themselves competent, with each of them awarding custody of the child to the parent who is a national of their state. the purpose of the convention is to resolve such situations at an international level.
in writing. — i voted in favour of the accession of albania to the hague convention, as this proposal will assist authorities in returning wrongfully removed children, and will help to address issues of conflict of laws (competence of courts). in real terms, it will provide a pragmatic solution where a child has been abducted and taken to another country without the consent of one of the parents. furthermore, the overarching principle of the proposal is that the welfare of the child – something that should always be paramount – should be the first and foremost consideration in child care proceedings. that is why it was necessary to support this proposal.
in writing. — the hague convention of 25 october 1980 on the civil aspects of international child abduction is a vitally important instrument. it has been ratified by all the eu member states. the convention introduces a system of cooperation between the contracting states aimed at settling cases of international child abduction. in many instances, these problems arise when a couple has separated. if the mother and father are from different states, there is a temptation to exploit the lack of cooperation between those states in order to secure custody of the child. the biggest problem in such cases is the differences between the legal systems of individual states. it may often be that the courts in both of the states concerned declare themselves competent, with each of them awarding custody of the child to the parent who is a national of their state. the purpose of the convention is to resolve such situations at an international level.
in writing. — i voted in favour. on the basis of a report prepared by the legal affairs committee, parliament verifies the credentials without delay and rules on the validity of the mandate of each of its newly elected members and also on any dispute referred to it, except those based on national electoral laws. the committee’s report is based on the official notification by each member state of the full results of the election specifying the names of the candidates elected and those of any substitutes together with their ranking in accordance with the results of the vote.
mr president, i would like briefly to welcome the resolution that was carried today in respect of the cross-border exchange of information. it is crucially important that we act collectively on this issue because we know that when foreign drivers of foreign cars are driving in any of our member states the propensity for offences to occur is much greater. that goes back to evidence in 2007, when a commission report showed that unless you have proper means of enforcement it becomes very easy for people to break the law. so, it is a good day’s work that we have managed to put this resolution through. bad and dangerous driving behaviour can be affected only if people feel they are going to be caught. and there is a responsibility on all member states to ensure a proper, adequate flow of information from one country to the next in order to make sure that happens. lastly i would say this: in my own country, in ireland, i have been arguing for a very long time that we need to have a joint approach, north and south, to penalty points. we have been trying, on a cross-party basis and with the british government, to achieve that. i think it makes sense, especially where there is a shared border between two jurisdictions, to have a common approach to penalty points. if today’s resolution on the exchange of information leads to that in countries which are close to one another, it makes absolute sense from a european perspective.
mr president, i voted in favour of this regulation which is aimed at facilitating the cross-border exchange of information relating to traffic offences. the implementation of this is crucial as it should mean that people who have committed a road traffic offence in a country that they are not resident in can still face the penalties for their actions. this is a particular issue, as has already been said, in ireland, where unfortunately we have a land border and a minority of drivers have used that border as a mechanism to basically show disregard for road safety laws when travelling on the opposite side. we know also that drivers from other eu countries have been basically immune when they are driving on irish roads. so, hopefully we can now reach the point where penalty points can be shared across jurisdictions, because the priority has to be to ensure the safety of all road users.
a uachtaráin, bhí áthas orm vótáil ar son an cheithre vóta a bhain leis an tuarascáil seo de réir threoir mo ghrúpa an epp. dar ndóigh bhí an tuairim chéanna ag an gcuid is mó de na feisirí. bhí tromlach mór ina fabhar agus ní nach ionadh é sin mar tá sé go léir ráite ag an rapóirtéir, feisire sender, nuair a labhair sí roimh an vóta. sábhálfaidh an tuarascáil seo saolta amach anseo. maraítear na mílte duine ar bhóithre na heorpa gach uile bhliain agus is fiú rud éigin a dhéanamh faoi. táimid ag déanamh sin anois agus taispeánfaidh sé sin gur féidir leis an aontas oibriú ar son ár saoránach, rud go bhfuil géarghá dúinn a thaispeáint sna laethanta seo agus a lán daoine ag cáineadh. freisin is léir go raibh na saineolaithe go léir i bhfabhar na tuarascála seo agus is fiú agus is ceart i gcónaí éisteacht leis na saineolaithe agus rinneamar é seo inniu.
in writing. — i voted in favour of this regulation, which aims to facilitate the cross-border exchange of information related to traffic offences. the implementation of this regulation is crucial, as it should mean that people who commit a road traffic offence in a jurisdiction where they are not resident can face the penalties for their actions. this is a particular issue in ireland, as a minority of drivers have used the border as a means of showing disregard for road safety laws on one side of it or the other. we also know that drivers from other eu countries have been basically immune to irish traffic laws. hopefully these problems can now be addressed. the priority must be to ensure the safety of all road users.
in writing. — i voted in favour of this regulation, which aims to facilitate the cross-border exchange of information related to traffic offences. the implementation of this regulation is crucial, as it should mean that people who commit a road traffic offence in a jurisdiction where they are not resident can face the penalties for their actions. this is a particular issue in ireland, as a minority of drivers have used the border as a means of showing disregard for road safety laws on one side of it or the other. we also know that drivers from other eu countries have been basically immune to irish traffic laws. hopefully these problems can now be addressed. the priority must be to ensure the safety of all road users.
in writing. — it is important that every citizen is treated equally in the eu, no matter which member state roads they are driving on. however, what is also vitally important is data protection in relation to traffic offences. information such as national vehicle registration data will be shared across borders in order to track down drivers liable of safety-related offences such as speeding and drink-driving. ireland will soon be integrated in the cross-border exchange information on road safety related offences. the previous directive has proved to be effective in mainland europe and my colleagues and i are positive that the new directive, which will also be extended to ireland and the uk, will reduce the number of road deaths even further.
in writing. — for many years, drivers could act with impunity whilst driving in other european countries relatively safe in the knowledge that they would not be prosecuted. that is all to change with the introduction of this directive. i welcome it. this directive, is above all else, about safety! i welcome the cross-party support that it has received in its journey through parliament. i want to commend the rapporteur on this directive, inés ayala sender, and our own epp shadow george bach for the important work they have done on it.
in writing. — i supported the proposal to facilitate cross-border exchange of information on road safety traffic offences. the objective of the proposal is to allow for an exchange of vehicle registration information between member states to identify drivers who commit a road traffic offence in a member state other than the one where their vehicle is registered. the offences covered are speeding, driving under the influence of alcohol, not using a seat belt and failing to stop at a red light. this directive replaces a previous directive which essentially would have had the same effect but a dispute arose over its legal base. all of the different issues have now been sorted out and we can expect this new legislation to enter into force in the near future.
in writing. — i voted in favour of this report as the cross-border exchange of information on road safety and traffic offences is an important step in creating safer roads across europe. this report will also help reduce the number of road deaths by half by 2020 compared to 2011.
in writing. — i voted in favour of this regulation, which aims to facilitate the cross-border exchange of information related to traffic offences. the implementation of this regulation is crucial, as it should mean that people who commit a road traffic offence in a jurisdiction where they are not resident can face the penalties for their actions. this is a particular issue in ireland, as a minority of drivers have used the border as a means of showing disregard for road safety laws on one side of it or the other. we also know that drivers from other eu countries have been basically immune to irish traffic laws. hopefully these problems can now be addressed. the priority must be to ensure the safety of all road users.
in writing. — given that the senegalese economy will undoubtedly prosper from the improved exploitation of available stocks – in accordance with the principles of a sustainable fishery and the best practices in the industry – it is the rapporteur’s opinion that the new fpa and the protocol established between the european union and senegal are in both parties’ interests.
mr president, i voted in favour of this resolution as hopefully it will lay the foundation for an important inquiry report into illegal rendition programmes within member states. many european countries – unfortunately and regrettably including my own – have stifled any attempts to conduct real, proper investigations. for our part, in my own party, sinn féin, we have been very vocal in our condemnation of the facilitation of secret cia detention, rendition and interrogation programmes, which unfortunately have been facilitated through the use of a domestic airport in ireland. i have to say that it is very disappointing that the irish government has helped facilitate these illegal actions. so therefore we supported this resolution in the hope that it would provide the necessary safeguards to ensure that these types of practices are not allowed to continue under our noses and against the wishes of the citizens of our states.
a uachtaráin, is dócha go bhfuil a lán tíortha daonlathacha i gcás idir dhá chomhairle faoi conas gur cheart déileáil le sceimhlitheoirí, sceimhlitheoirí mar a chonaiceamar i bpáras le déanaí agus ina lán áiteanna eile timpeall an domhain atá ag éirí níos dainséaraí agus níos dána. dar ndóigh is ceart go háirithe in aon chóras daonlathach cearta daoine a chosaint agus go háirithe cloí leis na dlíthe. nuair nach dtarlaíonn sé sin is ceart é a cháineadh. chuaigh na stáit aontaithe agus an cia thar fóir is dócha agus ní ceart gan dabht gan é sin a cháineadh mar atáimid ag déanamh anseo inniu. tá locht á fháil ar mo thír féin freisin nuair nár chuamar ar bord eitleán a bhí in éirinn ar a slí go dtí na stáit aontaithe agus iad a chuardach. b’fhéidir go bhfuil sé sin fíor, ach mar a deirim táimid i gcás idir dhá chomhairle má caithfimid gach duine a chosaint agus is deacair déileáil le daoine nach gcloíonn le haon dlíthe in aon chor.
in writing. — i voted in favour of this resolution as it lays the foundation for an important inquiry into and report on illegal rendition programmes within member states. it will also pave the way for more pressure to be put on the council, and on the member states concerned, to respond once and for all to parliament’s continued demands, as set out in 2012 and 2013 and in today’s resolution. the ongoing attempts by some european countries to stifle investigation of these human rights abuses are completely unacceptable. my own party, sinn féin, has been very vocal in its condemnation of the facilitation of secret cia detention, rendition and interrogation programmes in ireland through the use of our domestic airport in shannon. the irish government has helped facilitate the illegal actions of the cia by permitting the use of its airspace and airports for flights associated with cia extraordinary rendition operations. neither ireland nor any other eu member state can be complicit in human rights violations.
in writing. — i voted in favour of this resolution as it lays the foundation for an important inquiry into and report on illegal rendition programmes within member states. it will also pave the way for more pressure to be put on the council, and on the member states concerned, to respond once and for all to parliament’s continued demands, as set out in 2012 and 2013 and in today’s resolution. the ongoing attempts by some european countries to stifle investigation of these human rights abuses are completely unacceptable. my own party, sinn féin, has been very vocal in its condemnation of the facilitation of secret cia detention, rendition and interrogation programmes in ireland through the use of our domestic airport in shannon. the irish government has helped facilitate the illegal actions of the cia by permitting the use of its airspace and airports for flights associated with cia extraordinary rendition operations. neither ireland nor any other eu member state can be complicit in human rights violations.
in writing. — since 2006, the european parliament has been at the forefront of exposing the truth about european involvement in the cia rendition and secret detention programmes. in resolutions in 2007, 2009, 2011, 2012 and 2013, the parliament has consistently promoted accountability and justice in europe. its input has been widely recognised in europe and the us; the landmarks reports of 2007 and 2012 were referenced in particular by the un, the council of europe and historic judgments of its court of human rights on the complicity of eu member states in cia rendition and secret detention.
scríofa. — chaith mise vóta i bhfabhar an rúin seo mar go gcuireann sé an chéad chéim cun tosaigh i gcomhair tuarascáil fiosrúcháin a bhunú maidir le cláir de ghéilleadh neamhdhleathach laistigh de na ballstáit. mar aon leis sin, faoi dheireadh, is bealach é le níos mó brú a chur ar an gcomhairle agus ar bhallstáit áirithe freagairt a thabhairt ar na héilimh leantacha atá tagtha ón bparlaimint agus mar a leagtar amach i rúin ó 2012 agus 2013 agus sa rún seo. ní féidir glacadh le hiarrachtaí atá ar siúl ag tíortha eorpacha áirithe fiosrúcháin ar threascairtí ar chearta an duine a stopadh. tá sé sin do-ghlactha. le tamall fada anuas anois, bhí agus tá mo pháirtí féin, sinn féin, an-ghlórach inár gcáineadh ar an tslí a bhfuil éascú á dhéanamh in éirinn ar choinneáil rúnda, géilleadh agus ceistiúcháin cia trí úsáid ár n-aerfoirt intíre i sionainn. tá rialtas na héireann ag éascú gníomhaíochtaí neamhdhleathacha de bharr go bhfuil sé ag tabhairt cead do cia úsáid a bhaint as aerspás agus aerfoirt na héireann d’eitiltí atá bainteach le géilleadh urghnách. ní féidir le héirinn ná le haon bhallstát san aontas eorpach a bheith comhpháirteach le sáruithe ar chearta an duine.
in writing. — an eu pnr scheme can be useful but it must be very clear in its scope and purpose and meet stringent data protection standards. when collecting passenger name records, we must be very careful to safeguard the protection of our citizens’ fundamental rights. the commission has so far failed to present us with a satisfactory explanation of how these records can be used to detect and prevent terrorism and serious cross-border crime, and of how it will ensure that they will be used for these purposes only. we must also keep in mind that we will be processing wholesale information pertaining to absolutely everyone who flies into europe, an overwhelming majority of whom are innocent people whose privacy rights must be taken into consideration.
in writing. — we welcome this show of unity. today, meps hailing from almost all political colours showed unity in their abhorrence of terror and barbarity and showed that they are ready to prevent it. we should keep this unity alive. we should no longer allow terrorism to divide us. terrorists would win if we are divided. the time to act is now.
mr president, i voted in favour of this resolution on country-of-origin labelling. i have to say that i am mindful of the arguments that people put about over-regulation and the additional cost that could follow from such an initiative, but i think the arguments that the consumer makes win out over any potential difficulty that could emerge in terms of additional cost or more regulation. this proposal has been in the offing now since 2011 and, as the previous speaker said, the horsemeat scandal in 2013 is an example of where the internal market was used for financial gain, for processors to effectively sell something that was not there for their own financial end. i believe consumers have rights here. i believe people want to know where their food comes from. i think it is in the interests of countries like my own, which have a hugely significant agri-foods industry, that we move in this direction. i very much hope that the commission takes note of this resolution and takes note of the strong consumer sentiment that supports information such as this, so that we can have a sustainable food system, not just in europe but throughout the world – and also a sustainable food system that people have certainty about, in terms of knowing where their food comes from.
mr president, i supported the proposal for mandatory country-of-origin labelling for meat in processed food because, as many other speakers have said, research has proven that eu consumers want access to this information. this is also important for farmers in countries like my own – ireland – who deserve to have their produce recognised but who also need the protection of law, ensuring that companies cannot label products for example as being irish when in fact they are not. the bord bia voluntary labelling scheme in ireland already includes meat in processed meals and this scheme has had a huge uptake with almost 40 000 producers and 122 processors currently involved. it is clear that this is not just what consumers want but it is also what is in the best interests of farmers and businesses.
in writing. — i voted in favour of this resolution, which provides strong measures to ensure that mandatory country-of-origin labelling for processed meat products is included on all processed meats. the benefits of origin labelling are not limited to consumers: it is clear from the number of producers and farmers who have voluntarily opted into the bord bia scheme in ireland that it offers advantages to the food industry. moreover, this resolution highlights the need for more transparency, and that is why i voted in favour.
in writing. — i am glad the european parliament endorsed my committee’s proposal, so that we can convince the european commission to bring a labelling proposal to the table. families want to know, and should know, where the meat they buy and eat comes from. in fact, consumer surveys show that over 9 out 10 people want to know the origin of the meat contained in the products they choose, especially after last year’s horsemeat scandal. while we must acknowledge that better traceability alone will not put an end to food fraud, better traceability gives consumers information they value and helps food manufacturers and retailers to make better informed decisions when choosing their suppliers. unprocessed beef prices did not escalate when labelling of origin became mandatory, and neither will those of processed food including meat, according to research conducted by the commission itself and by consumers’ organisations in the eu.
in writing. — i voted against compulsory origin labelling for meat products used in processed food today as i believe that we need to send a strong message that excessive regulation for smes will not be tolerated. this is about protecting jobs. an estimated 99 % of eu businesses have fewer than 250 employees. these firms are the job creators in ireland and they must be protected against regulation and unnecessary red tape. irish food companies already adhere to a wide range of food safety, traceability and quality standards. let us be very clear on this: the proposed measures would not enhance food safety or quality.
in writing. — i supported the proposal to ask the eu commission to come forward with a proposal for mandatory country of origin labelling in processed foods. as of april 2015, fresh or frozen unprocessed meat from pigs, sheep, goats and poultry will have to bear information on where the animal was reared and slaughtered. however, the european parliament has now asked the commission to come forward with a proposal to ensure that all meat used as an ingredient in processed food, like ready-made meals should have country of origin labelling. this requirement is already there for fresh beef and beef products since january 2002 because of the bse crisis. we now need the same regulation for all other meat products.
in writing. — i voted in favour of the resolution on the country of origin labelling for processed meat as i believe consumers have the right to know where the meat they are consuming comes from.
scríofa. — chaith mise vóta i bhfabhar an rúin seo mar go gcuireann sé bearta láidre i bhfeidhm chun a chinntiú go bhfuil sé éigeantach lipéadú thír tionscnaimh na feola próiseáilte a chur ar na táirgí seo. ní hamháin gur buntáiste é seo do thomhaltóirí, ach tá sé soiléir ón méid táirgeoirí agus feirmeoirí atá mar pháirt de scéim bhord bia in éirinn go bhfuil buntáistí soiléire ag a leithéid do thionscal an bhia. mar aon leis sin, leagann an rún seo béim ar an ngá atá le níos mó follasachta agus sin an fáth gur chaith mé vóta i bhfabhar.
in writing. — i welcome the fact that the jpa, as one of the joint institutions of the cotonou agreement, continues to provide a framework for an open, democratic and comprehensive dialogue between members of the european parliament and parliamentarians from acp countries on implementation of this agreement, including scrutiny of development cooperation under the edf and the conclusion and implementation of the epas;
in writing. — i voted in favour of this report as i believe the acp-eu joint parliamentary assembly is a unique body which can strengthen political dialogue between eu politicians and their african counterparts. this body has significant influence in defining the post-2015 development agenda and for furthering eu development goals which seek to give everyone in developing countries a decent standard of living by 2020.
a uachtaráin, gan dabht ar bith is cás truamhéalach é seo mar ar láimh amháin tá gaol maith againn le ríocht na haraibe sádaí. tá a lán dul chun cinn déanta ag an ríocht sin agus, mar shampla, tá níos mó daoine a úsáideann twitter san araib shádach ná in aon áit eile sa mheánoirthear. ach ar an láimh eile, tarlaíonn a leithéid seo: buillí uafásacha ar dhroim duine sa lá atá inniu ann mar thaispeántas poiblí. ní féidir cur suas leis seo. i ndáiríre, tá sé ag déanamh saghas spóirt de, spórt reiligiúin mar tá sé ag tarlú os comhair mosc agus dá bhrí sin ba chóir dúinn gach iarracht a dhéanamh chun brú a chur ar údarás ríocht na haraibe sádaí deireadh a chur leis an nós aineolach, barbarach, meánaoiseach seo agus raif badawi a ligean saor.
in writing. — i voted in favour of the establishment of a special committee to investigate extensive allegations of tax fraud and tax evasion by a number of multinational corporations across the european union and the alleged role of key eu political figures in relation to same. the investigation of such serious practices is unequivocally one of the most critical inquiries of our time. in this regard, i am dissatisfied that the european parliament did not see fit to proceed with the proposed inquiry committee. an inquiry committee would have possessed the necessary legal powers to ensure that an objective, equitable and unprejudiced decision was reached. it is yet to be explored in full detail as to whether the special committee will have the requisite powers to investigate the legal loopholes which it has been maintained were deployed on a mass scale by multinationals across the european union and aided by senior eu political figures. it was with these reservations in mind, that i provided support to the creation of the special committee and both my party and my group will be monitoring this matter very closely.
in writing. — i voted in favour of the establishment of a special committee to investigate extensive allegations of tax fraud and tax evasion by a number of multinational corporations across the european union and the alleged role of key eu political figures in relation to same. the investigation of such serious practices is unequivocally one of the most critical inquiries of our time. in this regard, i am dissatisfied that the european parliament did not see fit to proceed with the proposed inquiry committee. an inquiry committee would have possessed the necessary legal powers to ensure that an objective, equitable and unprejudiced decision was reached. it is yet to be explored in full detail as to whether the special committee will have the requisite powers to investigate the legal loopholes which it has been maintained were deployed on a mass scale by multinationals across the european union and aided by senior eu political figures. it was with these reservations in mind, that i provided support to the creation of the special committee and both my party and my group will be monitoring this matter very closely.
in writing. — we want to shed light on all member states’ tax rulings and put pressure on them to end unfair tax practices, as well as combat tax evasion. this has to be done on a pan-european basis and must not simply isolate and concentrate on smaller states. for us this is a crucial question of fairness. this is why we decided to start work in a special committee with a broad mandate immediately.
in writing. — i was very happy to support the proposal to set up a special committee on tax rulings and other measures. this special committee will allow investigation and discussion of issues such as the third-country dimension of aggressive tax planning, administrative cooperation in the field of taxation, the application of eu state-aid and taxation law in relation to tax rulings. eu citizens are genuinely concerned about the prospect of large multinationals using systems to evade paying the required levels of corporation tax and hopefully this committee will work towards an equitable system while respecting the principle of subsidiarity.
scríofa. — chaith mise vóta i bhfabhar bunú sainchoiste chun fiosrúchán cruinn a dhéanamh ar líomhaintí d’imghabháil cánach agus de chalaois chánach atá déanta ag roinnt corparáidí ilnáisiúnta trasna an aontais eorpaigh, agus an bhaint a líomhnaítear a bhí ag roinnt ionadaithe polaitíochta leis. is é mo thuairim go bhfuil géarghá ann go dtarlóidh fiosrúchán mar seo. nílim sásta leis an dóigh nár cheap an pharlaimint go raibh sé tábhachtach go leor brú ar aghaidh leis an gcoiste fiosrúcháin a bhí molta. dá mba rud é go mbeadh coiste fiosrúcháin bunaithe bheadh na cumhachtaí dlíthiúla acu a chinntiú go mbeadh cinneadh a tháinig mar thoradh den fhiosrúchán oibiachtúil, cothrom agus gan chlaonadh. tá sé fós le bheith cinntithe go sonrach an mbeidh na cumhachtaí cearta ann chun fiosrú a dhéanamh ar na bealaí éalaithe dlíthiúla a bhí i bhfeidhm ag corparáidí ilnáisiúnta ar fud an aontais eorpaigh le cabhair ó ionadaithe polaitíochta sinsearacha. i gconclúid, mar gheall ar na hagúis go léir atá mínithe agam, chaith mé vóta i bhfabhar bhunú an tsainchoiste seo agus beidh mo pháirtí agus mo ghrúpa ag déanamh monatóireachta ar an scéal seo.
mr president, it is a pity that we did not have a roll-call vote for the final vote here, so that it could be on the record that the vast majority of members in this house condemn without reservation the activities of islamic state. this is one of the most brutal movements, if we can call it that, that the world has ever seen. certainly in the modern era, when so many countries have moved forward in trying to respect human rights, to see some of the activities of this islamic state, in terms of beheadings, the treatment of women and their use as gifts for soldiers, forced marriages etc., it is so out of date that we have to condemn it without reservation – and, indeed, use all the methods we can to ensure that this type of activity is written out of history.
in writing. — the eu must act in unison and resolutely against terror and develop a stronger capacity on internal security. we must reach out to the people of iraq and syria and provide whatever help and assistance we are able to.
mr president, it has been said that we do not need an energy union because we have the european union. well, in actual fact, we have a european union but we do not have an energy union. i hope that today’s proposals will be the first step in ensuring that we do have one as soon as possible. we have also learned in recent times that it is very dangerous to put all your eggs in one basket, particularly when that basket is a russian basket, so we have to diversify supply, in particular to ensure security. i think energy terminals are one way to make the world our oyster in terms of being able to avail of the shale gas revolution etc. in the united states. within europe we have also got to do far more in renewables – renewables that are cost-effective. i think an energy union will help to make that happen, particularly in areas like wind – which we have a surfeit of all over northern europe – sun in the south of europe, biomass possibly, but also, as mr petersen mentioned, district heating and cooling. it is a very easy and cost-effective way to make it happen.
in writing. – solidarity is most important in times of struggle. the european union was meant to be as much about solidarity as about cooperation. but when countries like ireland entered into an economic crisis, partially caused by european policies, solidarity was sorely lacking. we see this same attitude being displayed again towards the people of greece. the antagonistic attitude shown towards greece by both germany and the irish government is indicative of the contemptuous attitude which is held towards those who have suffered the most. instead of support, both the irish and the european institutions foisted an austerity agenda on greece and ireland and other domestic countries across europe. this includes the fine gael and labour government in dublin who themselves have been obedient agents of austerity in ireland. this obedience was evident recently in the comments from the euro group president (jeroen dijsselbloem) when he said that greece ‘should follow ireland’ which he said, ‘is making strong progress on all fronts’. i wonder how the euro group president defines ‘progress on all fronts’. ‘all fronts’ apparently does not include the most vulnerable in society such as the homeless, the disabled or unemployed which are bearing the brunt of austerity in ireland and greece.
in writing. – listening to all that has gone on in the past week as the new greek government negotiated for its life and the lives of its citizens with the other members of the eurogroup, i was struck by one thought: in all the barometers for ‘success’ used by mr dijsselbloem and the other austerity hawks, where is the measure for human suffering? in fact i’d go further – where is the humanity? questioning mr dijsselbloem in the econ meeting yesterday, dimitrios papadimoulis mep – who sees it all first-hand – outlined some of those human sufferings: ‘you know very well that the (existing) programme caused 25% recession in the greek economy and a huge humanitarian crisis – over 25% unemployment, 2 500 000 greeks living below the poverty line, nine out of 10 greeks unemployed who don’t receive a cent of unemployment allowance…’ his words, however, fell on deaf ears. ‘fiscal targets, 3%, 60%’, that’s all mr dijsselbloem understands; all the suffering and misery caused? collateral damage. it leads to the question – is the eu a community of peoples governed by elected politicians, or simply a company run by cold-blooded bureaucrats, technocrats, economists and accountants?
the next item is the report by pablo zalba bidegain, on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs, on the european central bank annual report for 2013 (2014/2157(ini)) (a8-0011/2015).
i am now giving the floor to mr draghi, who i understand needs to leave us before the debate is over.
mr marias, excuse me, please. (mr marias continued to express his objections to what mr draghi had said)mr marias, i would ask you to show respect for the chair. i gave you a little extra time. you are disrespectful to mr draghi. however much you disagree with him, let him finish the point. there are many more speakers to come.
i am informed that the groups were fully aware of the scheduling this evening. perhaps you could speak to your group. i will communicate your point as you have made it.
let me clarify. the commission remains with us so i think that charge is not particularly well made.
mr president, 2013 was the year during which the irish government held the presidency of the eu. it was also the year when the central statistics office in ireland (sco) recorded that over 250 people every day were leaving irish shores in an emigration wave that was a direct result of the austerity policies that were championed by the ecb. when we look at the matter of banking debt it is quite apparent from listening to the discussions today that the ecb has provided no thought to, or indeed mention of, the huge amount of debt that irish generations are going to be saddled with. it should be remembered that, despite the fact that ireland makes up 0.9% of the european population – 1.2% of the eu gdp – the irish people have paid over 42% of the european banking crisis. it should also be remembered that this was a european financial crisis, not just an irish one, and the irish people have suffered beyond all proportion. i again call on the president of the ecb to acknowledge the role that his institution played in bailing out the irish banks at the cost of billions to our people, and it is simply not good enough to continue to abdicate responsibility. the irish people need – and deserve – answers.
mr president, i come to this debate from an employment and social affairs perspective. i believe the ecb must make a real contribution to improving growth and boosting employment, creating jobs that will lift people out of poverty. the commission’s own figures show that this is not happening, with significant increases in part-time work and temporary contracts. also the employment and economic differences between member states represent a major risk for both the eu’s economic stability and social cohesion. that is the stark reality and the ecb must take its share of the responsibility. earlier this evening mr draghi spoke about the ecb’s transparency and accountability measures and they are to be welcomed. yesterday i received a letter from mr draghi to say that the vice-president of the ecb, mr vítor constâncio, will be available to take part in an informal exchange of views with the irish banking inquiry. i hope that the accountability and transparency that mr draghi boasted about earlier will fully apply to any such exchange of views. if that happens, the engagement will be meaningful. otherwise it will be meaningless.
mr president, this debate without president draghi is a bit like hamlet without the prince, but we will plough ahead regardless. when president draghi was first appointed, i said he was a breath of fresh air. i think he has proven that since, and he has been given credit generally for saving the euro and, possibly, saving the european union. it took courage and wisdom and initiative. i have three questions for him. question one: he mentioned interest rates. i would like to know from him when he thinks they might start to rise and by how much? question two: he said that quantitative easing was the only remaining measure open to the ecb to deal with the financial crisis. if that fails, what then? and the third question: he has made vítor constâncio available to us for the banking inquiry in ireland. would he encourage his predecessor, jean-claude trichet, to do the same? i do not think there are restrictions on him to appear, and maybe he might be able to influence him to do likewise.
mr president, ttip could well develop into the biggest bilateral free trade agreement in history, but citizens across europe have begun to view the process with increasing concern and have in fact begun to question the very integrity of the commission. in my view, the negotiation is wholly premature. the european position, entering negotiations, should first of all have been open to debate and discussion with those who were elected to represent the citizens of europe. instead the commission has pursued its mandate in secret until very recently. the proposed inclusion of an isds mechanism which would provide corporations with the power to threaten elected governments, ignore established legal systems and exercise influence on domestic legislation is meeting with unparalleled opposition. many farmers in my own constituency already cannot face further cuts in the price of their produce, for example, and opening our markets and allowing products that are produced at a lower cost and standard places farmers in a position of great disadvantage. while the commission has made claims that standards will not be reduced, we have yet to see any of these claims substantiated in tangible proposals or measures. while growth is always welcome, we will not support any agreement with limited gains at the cost of our most prized standards and protections.
mr president, there is a need for all governments to encourage and upgrade their housing to be more efficient in line with the green economy and to save energy. across europe lack of investment in retrofitting domestic and indeed public buildings to conserve energy is costing us. for every one euro invested by governments in retrofitting buildings, a return of up to five euros is generated for public finances in a very short time. retrofitted domestic homes can save up to eur 450 per home annually in heating bills. it makes sense to launch an ambitious programme of retrofitting social housing, public buildings and domestic homes to drive down our electricity bills and our dependence on fossil fuels. ten thousand public buildings in ireland are costing eur 600 million annually in heat, light and energy costs. so we need to encourage investment in retrofitting: it will create jobs, particularly in our rural areas; it will give a boost to the construction sector, which is slowly recovering. i would call on the commission to work with the european investment bank to draw on mr juncker’s investment plan, to ensure that we invest in energy-saving measures in our homes.
could i ask if you will take a blue card question from ms jaakonsaari? (ms bours did not wish to take a blue-card question)
on behalf of the gue/ngl group.– madam president, according to leaks within the european commission, we have heard that an eu paper on endocrine disruptors was due to propose criteria for categorisations of endocrine—disrupting chemicals which would have led to an eu ban on a range of hazardous substances but, once again, amidst heavy lobbying from the major chemical industry, which stands to lose big profits on these chemicals the report has mysteriously yet to surface. instead, what we hear is that the european commission is proposing to release an impact assessment in 2016. it is disheartening to hear yet again another story of the commission bending to its corporate bedfellows instead of implementing rigorous regulation to protect consumers and the environment. there is no excuse for any delay. there is plenty of scientific evidence to support the immediate suspension of the use of certain harmful substances, and it is a view which is also held by certain influential member states. so, given that edcs are used routinely in everyday household items such as toiletries, cosmetics, food containers, plastics and pesticides to name but a few, it is extremely urgent that the precautionary principle be upheld and that action be postponed as the commission plans. edcs have been linked to a wide range of diseases and conditions such as – as we have heard – foetal abnormalities, infertility, autism, diabetes and hormonal cancers. this frankenstein list of health causes is only compounded when we consider the staggering economic cost of edc exposure.
member of the commission.– mr president, i have listened closely to this very interesting debate. i take note of your views and will pass them on to my colleagues for further reflection. i am a medical doctor and i say very clearly that, first and foremost, health is number one. if we speak of impact assessment, we must speak about health, the environment, then agriculture, then complex issues related to all, but in all this complexity health is the number one issue. the issue of pressure from industry was mentioned. believe me, this is not correct. i am open and i would like to do my job in a transparent manner. i have 17 meetings with some of you here and with ministers of agriculture, health and the environment. i have meetings with experts, with the european food safety authority (efsa), with ngos, meetings with green 10 and so on. i am ready to continue to do my job in this way. we have, of course, established a taskforce inviting experts in order to see all the complexity and to establish a good picture, taking in the scientific evidence-based arguments. some speakers mentioned the issue of delay putting the health of european people at risk. this is not true. eu legislation in force already considers endocrine disruptors. in particular, consumers are protected from endocrine disruptors through european union legislation on the authorisation of chemical substances to be used as plant protection products, biocidal products or industrial chemicals. we have such rules now and we use these rules to protect our people. regarding the possibility of doing this in a transparent manner, i would like to say that i am ready to invite you to our debates and, of course, the website will be ready where we can do it in a transparent manner.
in writing.– even though a majority of meps and member states agreed on the need to phase out the use of these kinds of pesticides back in 2011, they all remain in use because the commission, which is in charge of adopting criteria to classify this kind of hazardous chemicals, has stalled on the matter. the commission has instead decided to prepare a redundant impact assessment. this kind of procrastination is very valuable to the chemical industries that sell such products but quite useless and dangerous to our health. we already have strong, scientifically solid criteria that are validated by the who and used for the purposes of identifying chemical substances that cause a range of health problems. banning these is all the more urgent given that very small amounts of these chemicals suffice to seriously disturb the normal functioning of hormones in our bodies. the commission had a legal deadline, which expired at the end of 2013, to define which chemicals qualify as endocrine disruptors according to sound scientific criteria. instead it was circumvented by a strategically timed impact assessment that is not only poorly framed in terms of economic costs, but serves the industryʼs interest in profiting from inaction. this is unacceptable and the commission must answer for it.
the uachtaráin, of course, has always been smachtbhannaí and has always been a certain group under the laws thereby. we knew there was an industrial dispute under the law until now, but last night we called an industrial dispute and the law was changed and the situation is worse. i said to the commissioner that there is no joke about that. but maybe it's true. but it's the same thing. we should at least be prepared to help them in their own way to show that they understand the situation. i don't know what to do. i can't read your hair. we should do something in europe; what is going to be difficult, the commissioner said. we have of course taken a stand against the laws in the smachtbhannaí go dtí go gcuireann an rúis deireadh the laws an drochiompar are in the ukraine.
mr president, in april 2016 ireland will transpose three new procurement directives into national law and previous guidelines from the commission give scope for the government of ireland to use procurement as a positive instrument to achieve gender equality and sustainable development, and to realise social goals such as its national anti—poverty targets. in order to ensure real public accountability, labour rights, equality and environmental considerations should be explicitly referred to at all stages of procurement processes. the right to organise collective bargaining and gender equality, as set out by the ilo standards, must also be complied with and monitored on an ongoing basis. given that my country, ireland, is second in the oecd for low pay – and women are particularly vulnerable in this area – the living wage should always be included when applying the best price-quality ratio. the directives do not oblige ireland to contract out services that they wish to provide themselves, and they should therefore remain in public control. community and voluntary services must also be protected and not disadvantaged by a move from a grant—based funding model to one of tendering.
aachtaráin, táimse ar fheachtas teanga na laethanta seo chun mo theanga dhúchais a chur chun cinn toisc go bhfuil seachtain na gaeilge ar siúl againn ag an mbaile. (the irish language week is held in the town of seachtain na gaeilge, which is the capital of the province of seachtain na gaeilge in the country of ireland.) i would also like to thank the european union for the work it has done on my own language. for example, is is not possible to speak irish here now because there is a translation service that can explain what is going on, and in the future many people will be employed by the citizens of our european documents to translate. next week there will be a death in our ngael, the fhéile pádraig, and i will be more than happy to welcome the parliament there. you'll be welcomed by the chat. i want to hear a single word from the gaelainn: in lieu cheers no bon appétit a rá, abair sláinte sin is an téarma gaelainne. therefore, the uachtaráin, sláinte.
the uachtaráin, gan dabht ar bith tá sábháilteacht ar na boithre an-tábhachtach mar maraítear agus gortaítear an iomarca daoine gach uile bhliain. the uachtaráin is the seat of the parliament, and the president of the senate is the head of the government. at the same time, we know that the economic collapse is almost over, but there will be more to do on the road to cars and especially to take goods back to the sea. so it's important to know our limits, and we're going to be there in the next few months. is dóigh liom go bhfuil jab maith déanta ag an rapóirtéir agus a chomhghleacaithe mar tá difríochtaí móra idir sa bóithre, mar shampla, i mo thír féin oileán na héireann agus na bóithre sa mhór-roinn agus is is se sin seen ins in the ruin that is here. is dóigh liom go bhfuil jab maith déanta ag an rapóirtéir agus a chomhghleacaithe mar tá difríochtaí móra idir na bóithre, mar shampla, i mo thír féin oileán na héireann agus na bóithre sa mhór-roinn agus is se sin seen ins in the ruin that is here. therefore, i think that i have done well in hell.
mr president, i want to begin by welcoming commissioner vestager to the european parliament, and i also want to congratulate alain lamassoure for his work on this proposal. i think, together with the juncker investment plan and the new funds for strategic investment, we are beginning to see europe emerge from this appalling crisis – a crisis where effectively 20% of investment has been taken out of the eu—wide economy since the fall of lehman brothers in 2008. what we now need to do – and it is the key issue for me – is to provide certainty. there is a wall of funds within the pensions industry, within the insurance industry, that will invest in a long—term investment project. but they are looking for two things: they are looking for certainty, firstly that they will get their money back, and secondly they are looking for certainty in terms of the projects that they need to invest in. what europe needs right now is that period of absolute certainty. the commission itself has said that between now and 2020 we will need to boost investment somewhere between eur 1 trillion and eur 2 trillion. we need this instrument in place to give certainty to the markets to make sure that they can invest on a long—term basis in all of the things that we need to do. finally, i will make this one point. as public budgets improve, as the situation develops, we will see further capital projects. we need to move quickly to the capital markets because that is the best way to give us the stability we need to see. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8))
blue-card answer.– i absolutely agree that they could benefit from juncker’s plan and, if there is one thing we need to learn from the united states of america in terms of venture capital, it is that they use venture capital in a much more strategic way than we do in europe. why is it the case that successful businesses in europe are frequently bought by us venture capitalists and transformed into multiglobal businesses, and we lose out in europe? so i do see venture capital funding as an absolutely crucial way that we can provoke the european-wide economy. i very much agree with you.
the president shall, by the end of the year, submit to the european parliament and to the council a report on the implementation of the budget. however, there is an economic advantage to this, and therefore it is important to invest in europe, especially in places that will have economic advantages associated with it. i'm thinking especially about energy. it is necessary to establish a network of gas and electricity terminals. it is also tourism, and of course we could do much more with an industrial base than we have in all places around europe and it is also investment in tourism as well.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report. this report is concerned with the re-integration into the labour market of an estimated 50 out of 615 workers who have been made redundant in the manufacturing sector. this is a particularly important issue for me as only recently in my own constituency and my home town of carrickmacross, 140 workers were made redundant from our local bose factory. this has had a devastating effect on the workers, their families and the wider community as a whole. we do not yet know if an application for funding from the european globalisation adjustment fund will be made in this instance but adequate support for the workers in retraining and upskilling must be provided in any case. the fund plays a vital role in ameliorating what is a very distressing situation for workers who have found their whole livelihoods placed into disarray. in what is often a very harrowing situation, it is important to focus on the positive and constructive options which are available. however, i would like to add a general qualification that no government should use this fund as a justification for making workers redundant.
in writing. ‒ i am pleased to support the application for the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund made by zachem. the european globalisation adjustment fund was set up to provide additional assistance to workers who have lost their jobs as a result of major structural changes in world trade patterns. zachem was the biggest employer in the kujawsko-pomorskie province of poland and the 615 redundancies which have resulted from its closure, have had a significant adverse impact on the local economy. i therefore voted in favour of this report as it is a means by which the eu can give valuable help to the local economy and support the workers affected.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report. this report is concerned with the re-integration into the labour market of an estimated 476 out of 657 workers in the solar manufacturing sector in the german federal state of brandenburg who have been made redundant. this is a particularly important issue for me as only recently in my own constituency and my home town of carrickmacross, 140 workers were made redundant from our local bose factory. this has had a devastating effect on the workers, their families and the wider community as a whole. we do not yet know if an application for funding from the european globalisation adjustment fund will be made in this instance but adequate support for the workers in retraining and upskilling must be provided in any case. the fund plays a vital role in ameliorating what is a very distressing situation for workers who have found their whole livelihoods placed into disarray. in what is often a very harrowing situation, it is important to focus on the positive and constructive options which are available. however, i would like to add a general qualification that no government should use this fund as a justification for making workers redundant.
in writing. ‒ i am pleased to support the application for the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund made by aleo solar. the european globalisation adjustment fund was set up to provide additional assistance to workers who have lost their jobs as a result of major structural changes in world trade patterns. aleo solar was a large employer in the prenzlau/brandenburg region of germany and the 657 redundancies which have resulted from its closure, have had a significant adverse impact on the local economy, which was already struggling with high unemployment. i therefore voted in favour of this report as it is a means by which the eu can give valuable help to the local economy and support the workers affected.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report. this report is concerned with the re-integration into the labour market of an estimated 701 out of 708 workers in the belgian region of hainaut who have been made redundant in the basic metals sector. this is a particularly important issue for me as only recently in my own constituency and my home town of carrickmacross, 140 workers were made redundant from our local bose factory. this has had a devastating effect on the workers, their families and the wider community as a whole. we do not yet know if an application for funding from the european globalisation adjustment fund will be made in this instance but adequate support for the workers in retraining and upskilling must be provided in any case. the fund plays a vital role in ameliorating what is a very distressing situation for workers who have found their whole livelihoods placed into disarray. in what is often a very harrowing situation, it is important to focus on the positive and constructive options which are available. however, i would like to add a general qualification that no government should use this fund as a justification for making workers redundant.
in writing. ‒ i am pleased to support the application for the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund made by hainaut steel (duferco and nlmk). the european globalisation adjustment fund was set up to provide additional assistance to workers who have lost their jobs as a result of major structural changes in world trade patterns. duferco and nlmk were large employers in the hainaut region of belgium and the 708 redundancies which have resulted from their closure, have had a significant adverse impact on the local economy. many of those made redundant do not hold qualifications and will have to be retrained to find new employment. i therefore voted in favour of this report as it is a means by which the eu can give valuable help to the local economy and support the workers affected by helping them re-enter the labour market.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report. this report is concerned with the re-integration into the labour market of an estimated 910 out of 1 285 workers in the area of liège in belgium who have been made redundant in the steel production sector. this is a particularly important issue for me as only recently in my own constituency and my home town of carrickmacross, 140 workers were made redundant from our local bose factory. this has had a devastating effect on the workers, their families and the wider community as a whole. we do not yet know if an application for funding from the european globalisation adjustment fund will be made in this instance but adequate support for the workers in retraining and upskilling must be provided in any case. the fund plays a vital role in ameliorating what is a very distressing situation for workers who have found their whole livelihoods placed into disarray. in what is often a very harrowing situation, it is important to focus on the positive and constructive options which are available. however, i would like to add a general qualification that no government should use this fund as a justification for making workers redundant.
in writing. ‒ i am pleased to support the application for the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund made by arcelormittal liège s.a. the european globalisation adjustment fund was set up to provide additional assistance to workers who have lost their jobs as a result of major structural changes in world trade patterns. arcelormittal was a large employer in the liège region of belgium and the 1285 redundancies which have resulted from its downsizing have had a significant adverse impact on the local economy. i therefore voted in favour of this report as it is a means by which the eu can give valuable help to the local economy and support the workers affected.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report. this report is concerned with the re-integration into the labour market of an estimated 630 out of 1 030 workers in the charleroi area in belgium in the manufacture of machinery and equipment sector. this is a particularly important issue for me as only recently in my own constituency and my home town of carrickmacross, 140 workers were made redundant from our local bose factory. this has had a devastating effect on the workers, their families and the wider community as a whole. we do not yet know if an application for funding from the european globalisation adjustment fund will be made in this instance but adequate support for the workers in retraining and upskilling must be provided in any case. the fund plays a vital role in ameliorating what is a very distressing situation for workers who have found their whole livelihoods placed into disarray. in what is often a very harrowing situation, it is important to focus on the positive and constructive options which are available. however, i would like to add a general qualification that no government should use this fund as a justification for making workers redundant.
in writing. ‒ i am pleased to support the application for the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund made by caterpillar belgium s.a. the european globalisation adjustment fund was set up to provide additional assistance to workers who have lost their jobs as a result of major structural changes in world trade patterns. caterpillar belgium s.a. was a large employer in the hainaut region of belgium and the 1030 redundancies which have resulted from its closure have had a significant adverse impact on the local economy. in addition, many of those made redundant do not hold qualifications and will have to be retrained to find new employment. i therefore voted in favour of this report as it is a means by which the eu can give valuable help to the local economy and support the workers affected by helping them re-enter the labour market.
the president, the members and the commission voted on the report in august, but of course my group also voted in favour of the report. it is very important that we have a debate on the report this morning. in particular, it is essential to have a safe environment for all persons to use and to be able to report without delay. freisin, caithfimid focus on the reduction of costs and the amount of traffic on the roads now and we are dealing with laws and regulations on the environment, especially in the motor vehicle, in the railway and in the trucking industry and the use of the road. i think it's a good thing we're here now and we can't go on like this.
in writing. ‒ i voted for this report as it allows:• an increase in vehicle length to accommodate changes to the cab design of trucks to improve aerodynamics and road safety;• an increase in vehicle length to accommodate aerodynamic devices at the rear of vehicles which improve fuel consumption and reduce emissions;• an increase in vehicle length to accommodate 45ft containers used in intermodal transport;• an increase in vehicle weight (up to a maximum of one tonne) for alternatively fuelled vehicles;• improved inspection and enforcement related to checks on vehicle weights.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this legislative resolution to revise the maximum weights and dimensions of certain road vehicles, as larger and heavier trucks are a threat not only to road safety but also to the environment. this proposal will limit the size of heavy-good vehicles, promoting the shift from road to rail transportation and enhancing support for the development and use of low-carbon technologies. this will ensure that emissions are cut, helping us achieve our climate change goals, and will make the roads safer for all citizens.
the president, who had been very supportive of the report, had discussed it with us in the morning and then made a statement to the lamassoure government. but of course, we want to evaluate the economic impact, and we want to make investments, especially in areas where there are laws. i'm especially thinking about the bhonneagar dfhuinneamh agus of the thai language and especially agus is already without luaite. freisin, is maith an rud is mar a dúradh ar maidin go bhfuil ár mbainc ag obair arís. 70% of people who are in the business are looking for a trusted partner and are now sitting at the same table as their partner. chabhródh is without go more linn agus ma lanamíd laws an invesment sin, and elóamíd the an gcúlú economic economic se agus beidh fás agus borradh san európa arís.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report. the core idea that european long-term investment funds (eltifs) would support social and environmentally sustainable investments is a positive one. however, the commission have failed to table adequate provisions in relation to this. the commission’s proposal aims to provide investors with guaranteed security if investing long term in infrastructure, education, health industry or housing. the shadow rapporteurs equitable and exhaustive amendments were not included in the compromises, despite being focused on sustainable and viable alternatives. my party are seeking improvements for the real economy and we will not endorse proposals which are designed to benefit certain vested financial interests. moreover, related to this report is the commission’s recent green paper on long-term financing of the european economy. i have a number of concerns with this green paper. it needs to be reiterated that the lack of bank lending is primarily because of austerity policies which eradicated credit demand as opposed to the repetitive claim that the problem is over-regulation of banks. the lack of investment is to do with austerity policies and the introduction of a capital markets union will have no tangible benefit if it is not combined with a rejection of austerity policies.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report. the core idea that european long-term investment funds (eltifs) would support social and environmentally sustainable investments is a positive one. however, the commission has failed to table adequate provisions in relation to this. the commission’s proposal aims to provide investors with guaranteed security if investing long-term in infrastructure, education, the health industry or housing. the shadow rapporteursʼ equitable and exhaustive amendments were not included in the compromises, despite being focused on sustainable and viable alternatives. my party are seeking improvements for the real economy and we will not endorse proposals which are designed to benefit certain vested financial interests. moreover, related to this report is the commission’s recent green paper on long-term financing of the european economy. i have a number of concerns with this green paper. it needs to be reiterated that the lack of bank lending is primarily because of austerity policies which eradicated credit demand as opposed to the repetitive claim that the problem is over-regulation of banks. the lack of investment is to do with austerity policies and the introduction of a capital markets union will have no tangible benefit if it is not combined with a rejection of austerity policies.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because this agreement between parliament and council signals the evolution of alternative forms of financing the real economy in the eu. the development of european long-term investment funds will help to provide private investors with steady and regular returns. in europe our capital markets are not evenly developed and it is our task to ensure that capital markets can play a key role in the provision of long-term, sustainable and growth-enhancing finance for our future.
in writing. ‒ i have voted in favour of this regulation as i believe it will help put the european economy on a path of sustainable, smart and inclusive growth. the creation of european long-term investment funds (eltifs) will enable long-term finance to be provided to various infrastructure projects and companies, acting as a driver for growth by delivering infrastructure, machinery, education and research results. it will also ensure that funds are subject to consistent rules across the eu, so that a secure and equal standard is implemented in all member states.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report. the situation to date has been that interchange fees for card-based payments, paid by the merchantʼs bank to the bank that issued the card, have not been transparent and they differ between eu countries, where they are subject in some cases to legislation and in others to decisions by national competition authorities. the positive vote means in practice that cross-border debit card transaction fees will now be capped at 0.2 % of the transaction value. for credit card transactions, a fee cap of 0.3 % of the transaction value will apply. member states, including ireland, can decide to impose a lower cap if they so wish. these changes will be a positive development for customers and for irish businesses operating on a cross-border basis. the issue of cross-border transactions is particularly important in an irish context where we need to break down all barriers in order to create an effective all-ireland economy.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report for which i was shadow rapporteur. the situation to date has been that interchange fees for card-based payments, paid by the merchantʼs bank to the bank that issued the card, have not been transparent and they differ between eu countries, where they are subject in some cases to legislation and in others to decisions by national competition authorities. the positive vote means in practice that cross-border debit card transaction fees will now be capped at 0.2 % of the transaction value. for credit card transactions, a fee cap of 0.3 % of the transaction value will apply. member states, including ireland, can decide to impose a lower cap if they so wish. these changes will be a positive development for customers and for irish businesses operating on a cross-border basis. during discussions at preparatory meetings of the committee on economic and monetary affairs i urged that the issue of cross-border transactions be included in any caps as this is particularly important in an irish context where we need to break down all barriers in order to create an effective all-ireland economy.
in writing. – one of the ways merchants pass on the costs of these fees to consumers is by surcharging. otherwise, including when surcharging is not legally allowed in a member state jurisdiction, merchants raise prices overall, which passes on the cost to all consumers irrespective of the means of payment they use. together with other legislation governing payments in the eu (such as the payment services directive, under review, governing intra-eu payments in euro and eu currencies) this regulation aims at improving competition, transparency of fees and choice of card schemes by retailers and consumers. while it may not be a breakthrough in a direct and immediate sense for consumers, it is a necessary step to address serious issues with our payment systems in europe, and one which has great potential to bring down the invisible costs that consumers pay when they make retail payments.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this regulation because i believe it is good news for retailers and consumers in the eu that card-based transaction fees will be capped at 0.2% for debit card payments and 0.3% for credit card payments. the commission estimates that the rules could result in approximately eur 6 billion in annual savings for retailers. however, there needs to be proper enforcement and oversight of this regulation so that savings are passed on from retailers to consumers.
in writing. ‒ i have voted in favour of the regulation as it promises to cut costs for card users by creating common rules for interchange fees in the european union through the introduction of maximum fee levels of 0.2% for debit transactions and 0.3% for credit transactions on both cross-border and domestic card-based payments. it will also greatly enhance transparency, allowing retailers and consumers to make better informed choices of payment instruments.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report as it introduces a cap payment on card fees that banks charge retailers to process shoppers’ payments. this should result in lower costs for consumers as well as retailers.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) application for saint-gobain sekurit in belgium, which was authored by fellow sinn féin mep liadh ní riada. the egf is vitally important in reintegrating back into the labour market workers made redundant due to closures brought about by structural changes in world trade patterns due to globalisation. this is particularly the case in small open economies like belgium, or ireland for that matter. i support mobilisation of the fund based on the intervention criteria of article 2(c) of the egf regulation, under which, in exceptional circumstances, an application may be considered admissible even if other intervention criteria are not met, given that the redundancies have a serious impact on the local economy.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report. this report is concerned with the re-integration into the labour market of an estimated 257 workers who have been made redundant in the automotive safety glass sector. this is a particularly important issue for me as only recently in my own constituency and my home town of carrickmacross, 140 workers were made redundant from our local bose factory. this has had a devastating effect on the workers, their families and the wider community as a whole. we do not yet know if an application for funding from the european globalisation adjustment fund will be made in this instance but adequate support for the workers in retraining and upskilling must be provided in any case. the fund plays a vital role in ameliorating what is a very distressing situation for workers who have found their whole livelihoods placed into disarray. in what is often a very harrowing situation, it is important to focus on the positive and constructive options which are available. however, i would like to add a general qualification that no government should use this fund as a justification for making workers redundant.
in writing. ‒ i am pleased to support the application for the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund made by saint-gobain sekurit. the european globalisation adjustment fund was set up to provide additional assistance to workers who have lost their jobs as a result of major structural changes in world trade patterns. sgs benelux was gravely impacted by the decrease and shift in production of automotive safety glass, resulting in 257 redundancies. those made redundant are mainly production line workers, who will need to retrain to find new employment. i therefore voted in favour of this report, as it is a means by which the eu can give valuable support to these workers by helping them re-enter the labour market.
the european parliament i think it is better to have equal opportunities for men and women and as soon as it happens in europe it is better for us all. but at the same time, there is a lot of uncertainty about the report, and i would say that it is very important to do something about it, and to do something about it. i voted against the motion without a vote, and i'm not going to vote against the motion. i do not agree that europe should be making rules on the sea which are governed by laws in different states and of course that is not about the balance between men and women and there can be no fear of it. therefore, i hope that when we come back to this issue, we will be able to make the right choices and we will do our best to create a true equality between men and women as soon as possible.
in writing. ‒ there are many positive aspects within this report which i would fully support. i am pleased that this report made reference to important aspects of gender equality including the worrying feminisation of poverty, the persistent gender pay gap and the importance of member states acceding to the istanbul convention on violence against women, especially considering that ireland is one of only six eu countries not to have signed this vital treaty. however, i believe that the formulation and implementation of health policies, including sensitive positions taken on abortion services, is a competence of sovereign governments and i therefore, in line with sinn féin policy on the issue, abstained on the resolution overall. sinn féin believe that in the case of rape, sexual abuse or incest or where a woman’s life is in danger, or in the case of fatal foetal abnormality, the option of termination should be available. sexual and reproductive health and rights cannot be reduced to mean abortion. reproductive rights can refer to a range of services covering maternal, post-natal, menopausal, reproductive cancers and fertility treatments. it is my party’s and my own view that women should not be denied access to such services.
in writing. ‒ there are many positive aspects within this report which i would fully support. i am pleased that this report made reference to important aspects of gender equality including the worrying feminisation of poverty, the persistent gender pay gap and the importance of member states acceding to the istanbul convention on violence against women, especially considering that ireland is one of only six eu countries not to have signed this vital treaty. however, i believe that the formulation and implementation of health policies, including sensitive positions taken on abortion services, is a competence of sovereign governments and i therefore, in line with sinn féin policy on the issue, abstained on the resolution overall.
in writing. ‒ persisting gender inequalities are and will remain a great concern for many years to come. for example, we almost certainly will not be able to achieve equal pay any time before 2034 and womenʼs employment rate will not be comparable to menʼs until 2038. however, we have taken small steps to reduce this gender inequality gap. we did the right thing by pushing for the maternity leave directive to be unblocked by the eu council of ministers and to push for better paid paternity leave rights across the eu. we also want to see more financial support given by governments to make childcare systems more affordable, as it will give mothers increased opportunities to return to work. it is also important that, in every member state, women have control over their sexual and reproductive health rights.
in writing. ‒ progress on equality between women and men in the european union in 2013 is a report that was voted upon in parliament on 10 march 2015. i welcome the elements of this report that deal with equality for women. the report referenced important issues like gender pay gaps, gender equality and violence against women. however, it is my view that the formulation and implementation of policies on abortion are a matter for each individual member state and not the european parliament. parliament must not overstep its competence and must recognise the principle of subsidiarity, which is a founding principle of the eu. therefore i voted to take out any reference to abortion from the report on equality. i felt that the report overall had merit and advocated for equality for women and as such, i was happy to support it.
in writing. ‒ progress on equality between women and men in the eu in 2013 is a report that was voted upon in the european parliament on march 10th, 2015. i welcome the elements of this report that deal with equality for women. the report referenced important issues like gender pay gaps, gender equality and violence against women. however, it is my view that the formulation and implementation of policies on abortion are a matter for each individual member state and not the european parliament. the european parliament must not overstep its competence and must recognise the principle of subsidiarity, which is a founding principle of the eu. therefore i voted to take out any reference to abortion from the report on equality. i felt that the report overall had merit and advocated for equality for women and as such, i was happy to support it.
in writing. ‒ progress on equality between women and men in the eu in 2013 is a report that was voted upon in the european parliament on march 10th, 2015. i welcome the elements of this report that deal with equality for women. the report referenced important issues like gender pay gaps, gender equality and violence against women. however, it is my view that the formulation and implementation of policies on abortion are a matter for each individual member state and not the european parliament. the european parliament must not overstep its competence and must recognise the principle of subsidiarity, which is a founding principle of the eu. therefore i voted to take out any reference to abortion from the report on equality. i felt that the report overall had merit and advocated for equality for women and, as such, i was happy to support it.
in writing. ‒ i abstained in the final vote on this report as i believe that the matters covered in this report are subject to the subsidiarity principle.
in writing. ‒ this report did contain some positive aspects and it attempted to address some of the difficulties within eu competition law. however, its focus was primarily concerned with maintaining the current failed economic paradigm. there was a particular emphasis on the functioning of the single market and providing priority for the liberalisation of public sectors and a number of other unacceptable provisions. and so while welcoming some aspects of this report, namely the need to guarantee the universality of public services, the need to bring alternatives to the workers of industries affected by sanctions and the focus on sustainability; i felt it necessary to abstain in this vote.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report as i believe that parliament has a strong input into competition policy in the eu. however, i do have concerns with some aspects of the text which aim to project undue influence on member states’ national tax policies. the principle of subsidiarity allows member states to keep taxation under national legislation and i think we need to recognise that.
in writing. ‒ this report raises valid points of note in response to the eu commission’s annual report on its competition policy. above all, the report stresses that fairer tax competition is needed to ensure the continued integrity of the internal market, in order to promote growth and competitiveness across the eu. it calls on the commission to ensure the consistent implementation of eu state aid control rules and to keep the european parliament informed of the progress of its investigations.
the president, voted me in favour of all the amendments to the report and my group was pleased to see that it was not done, but i was here last night to send a message to president draghi to the annual report of our committee. it is true that the report was submitted without debate and without any discussion, but it is also true that it was not accepted as a result of the work carried out. labhair is a night without any cainníochtúil ear. i'm not sure i'm ready to go. i've also been to the cheltenham festival in the last week of quantitiveeasing. i've got a couple of euros to spend on a new head. i hope that the situation in the eu will improve as a result.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report as this report failed to address with any sincerity the impact that austerity policies have had on both ireland and indeed across the eu. this report was concerned with the year 2013. the year 2013 was the year during which the irish government held the presidency of the eu. it was also the year in which the central statistics office recorded 250 people a day leaving irish shores. this widespread emigration was as a direct result of the austerity policies championed by the ecb. despite the fact that ireland makes up 0.9 per cent of the european population and 1.2 per cent of the euʼs gdp, the irish people have paid over 42 per cent of the european banking crisis. every individual in ireland will pay eur 9 000 each. the average that citizens across the eu will pay is eur 192 per capita. the ecb still continues to fail to acknowledge the role that it played in bailing out the irish banks. it is simply not good enough to continue to abdicate responsibility. the irish people need and deserve answers and so do other citizens across the eu.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, as amongst other things, it calls on the ecb to remain vigilant on its policies of low growth and inflation and to adopt the right mix of monetary policies, fiscal policies and structural reform. i support these actions and therefore support this report.
the commission is actually scanning the amount of money that is being spent at the level of the member states and the union by keeping a record of all the types of money that olaf has to deal with and by keeping a record of the laws in the various registers that we have. he said a report had been prepared to allocate more than eur 2 billion per year to the fund for financial aid. as for the laws of the sea, they are not in the pioneers' hands. if they were higher, chabhródh se sin chun deireadh a chur leis an gcalaois. in addition to the laws on financial transparency, there is also a need to simplify the rules on administrative procedures. chabhródh is without go more agus could give a rud without to do, perhaps go dtiocfadh ar ar reduktion in the myrialtachtaí that are to tarlú.
i have received one motion for a resolution see minutes. tabled in accordance with rule 123(2) of the rules of procedure. i have received one motion for a resolution see minutes. tabled in accordance with rule 123(2) of the rules of procedure. the debate is closed. the vote will take place on wednesday, 11 march 2015. we have two more debates and with your permission and because it has been a long afternoon, i am going to ask for a five-minute break and we will resume here in five minutes. (the sitting was suspended for five minutes)
the next item is the debate on the council and commission statements on the 2014 progress report on serbia (2014/2949(rsp)).
i have received one motion for resolution see minutes. from the committee on foreign affairs tabled in accordance with rule 123(2) of the rules of procedure. i have received one motion for resolution see minutes. from the committee on foreign affairs tabled in accordance with rule 123(2) of the rules of procedure. the debate is closed. the vote will take place on wednesday, 11 march 2015. written statements (rule 162)
the next item is the debate on the council and commission statements on the european integration process of kosovo (2014/2950(rsp)).
i have received one motion for a resolution see minutes. from the committee on foreign affairs tabled in accordance with rule 123(2) of the rules of procedure. i have received one motion for a resolution see minutes. from the committee on foreign affairs tabled in accordance with rule 123(2) of the rules of procedure. the debate is closed. the vote will take place on wednesday, 11 march 2015.
mr president, i want to begin by congratulating mr rosati on his report. even though voters in my constituency do not stop me on the street and talk about macroeconomic imbalances, growth—friendly fiscal consolidation or the european semester, they do talk to me about this crash that they have gone through, the biggest financial crash in the lifetime of the european union, and we have to make sure that this crash never comes back. we have to make sure that the system we put in place for economic governance is strong and robust, and i think it is crucially important that we take some ownership of the decisions that come from this process. i think, as is said in the report, we should have a longer period of time between the publication of the national plans and a debate in the member state parliament. it is crucially important that member states take ownership of the country—specific recommendations. what is shown to be the case in ireland is that where you restructure radically, where you go through an enormous crash, you can come out the other side with substantially improved growth rates. in those countries that have gone through the biggest shock, we can come out the other side with much more enhanced and restructured economies and we can get more and more people back to work. this is a fundamental part of that process in making sure that we have economies that are fit for purpose. finally, can i make this point – in the country—specific recommendations, public sector reform and change of public sector administration is crucial. we should use the eu budget to help countries implement those country—specific recommendations as an incentive to those countries. many of them have gone through a very difficult period. finally, can i say this – we have to have the same rules for everyone, big countries and small countries. (the president cut off the speaker)
in writing.– it is futile to discuss the proposed aims for the european semester in 2015, when the commission unremittingly refuses to acknowledge the underlying structural and economic problems which the two-pack and six-pack reforms pose. reading through the aims of the commission for the 2015 european semester, the focus is supposedly to avoid economic boom and bust cycles, and aimed at restoring economic growth to the eu. however there is no mention of equitable growth and poverty reduction. it shows a clear disconnect between european bureaucrats and the reality that is facing millions of struggling working families in ireland and right across the eu. the primary aim of the european semester reforms seems to be just to ensure that member states do not deviate from the economic neo-liberal ideology that it is pushing. it does not leave member states with flexibility to implement alternative policies, which would be pro-investment, pro-growth, pro-jobs. in effect it is working to deny both irish and other eu citizens real political choices when electing their governments and is further eroding sovereignty and reducing economic independence.
in writing.– the first lines of the introduction to the annual growth survey 2015 read as follows: ‘having come through the worst financial and economic crisis in generations, the eu has done a lot to create the foundations for more sound and sustainable growth in the future’. it begs the question – what planet do those people live on? seven years into this crisis and far from ʽhaving come throughʼ, we have lurched from one emergency to another, with the commission/council/various eurogroups/ecb all combining to come up with one ʽfixʼ after another, many of those fixes then making matters worse, not better. we are still in crisis: the juncker plan and the qe programme the latest sure-fire ʽfixesʼ concocted by the institutions. when will you learn? what will it take for you to see that the medicine again being prescribed for us all in this semester is what is actually killing the patient? it is now as plain as day – austerity and all the neoliberal policies imposed on struggling countries is not working! please understand, you are dealing with real people, real poverty, real pain; in persevering with these policies you deal out more real poverty, more real pain. this is madness, pure and simple.
we will move to the vote. mr gollnisch, you have heard the vice-president’s ruling. you may make a remark if somebody has made a comment today in the chamber and on that basis only.
the next item is the vote.
thank you for that important point.
could i clarify for the house ... (interjection from mr gollnisch, protesting about his earlier point of order)mr gollnisch, would you please resume your seat. i have something to say and perhaps you would listen with respect. the president has already made an announcement about the television broadcast. he does not have a remit over what is said outside this chamber and i think that is particularly clear. thank you for raising the issue, ms forenza. now, colleagues, we can proceed to the vote ... (interjection from mr gollnisch, protesting about his point of order; the national front members banged the lids of their desks.) mr gollnisch, could i ask you to listen for one moment. i am going to ask the services to clarify directly with you about your issue of a point of order. i am very clear about this point. would you then please be respectful to the house. (applause from the national front)now, colleagues, i will open the vote.
that concludes the vote. ***
written explanations of vote
in writing. ‒ due to the fact that the purpose of this regulation is technical, i.e. to adapt and update the decision-making procedure in this case, i voted in favour.
write it down. ‒ the commission has set itself the technical objective of implementing this regulation, and has also set itself the objective of implementing the decisionmaking process in this field.
written explanations of vote
in writing. ‒ the european union has proved that the enlargement process is still high on the agenda and this will encourage other countries of south-east europe in their pro-reform-agenda efforts. i am glad that the eu stands behind its commitments. i hope that montenegro will keep up with its reform processes and that the negotiations will proceed smoothly. the decision to start accession negotiations opens the door for other countries in the region to get closer to the eu. we expect that the former yugoslav republic of macedonia will follow soon.
write it down. - it was an election that changed the coding and made it really simple. toisc go bhfuil sé teicniúil agus bainteach laws an simplified in áit an ábharthacht chaith mé vóta i bhfabhar.
written explanations of vote
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report as its implementation will provide for greater legal certainty and clarity. this report primarily relates to codification of legal texts. this is important as, if a text is not codified, previously amended versions of it remain valid. codification is - in a nutshell - simplification. any proposal that provides greater legal clarity and transparency should be welcomed as it is the complex nature of such texts which frequently leads to unnecessary legal challenges, often at taxpayers' expense.
written explanations of vote
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report as its implementation will provide for greater legal certainty and clarity. this report primarily relates to codification of legal texts. this is important as, if a text is not codified, previous amended versions of it remain in force. codification is - in a nutshell - simplification. any proposal that provides greater legal clarity and transparency should be welcomed as it is the complex nature of such texts which frequently leads to unnecessary legal challenges, often at taxpayers' expense.
written explanations of vote
written explanations of vote
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report as it was concerned with the establishment of the general fisheries commission for the mediterranean. this is an important procedural matter. it should be noted that i have particular concerns with fishing provisions which are stipulated within the general fisheries commission. however, as this report was solely to do with the establishment of this commission, i voted in favour.
written explanations of vote
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report as it is a democratic prerequisite that legal process is complied with. moreover, it serves the interests of all parties that the matter is heard before a court of law where it can be ruled on objectively and impartially.
written explanations of vote
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report as it is a democratic prerequisite that legal process is complied with. moreover, it serves the interests of all parties that the matter is heard before a court of law where it can be ruled on objectively and impartially.
oral explanations of vote
the president, i am voting against this report because i do not know what good things are in it, and i think the laws should be changed so that they can be reviewed and a financial report can be made. it is without doubt not possible to support it because it is not credible that we have failed to take action against the commission in the light of the serious financial crisis that we are currently facing. it's been said time and time again that the budget has been created completely differently from the budget that was reviewed. the public investment programme is strong, investment will strengthen the economic and social cohesion of the region; investment will be decided by a large number of regions, and will strengthen the social and economic cohesion. there is currently a lot of talk about the juncker plan, and it is important to be aware of public investment and to stop the privatisation of important sectors such as housing and energy in the member states. we have also supported the development of small businesses and the resources made available for research, education and fisheries.
written explanations of vote
i wrote it. i am not voting in favour of this report because i do not know what the good things in it are, but i think it is a good thing that it has been reviewed and that it has been made a financial crime. of course, i was not able to support the report because i do not believe that the commission is capable of doing anything about the current illicit financial market. it's been said time and time again that the budget has been created completely differently from the budget that was reviewed. the public investment programme is strong; investment will strengthen the economic and social cohesion of the region; investment will be decided upon by the commission and will be financed by the european regional development fund. we shouldn't be making laws to avoid breaches. it is currently under discussion with mr juncker. it is important to study the state of public health and to stop the spread of this disease. caithfimid bogadh or in the polsaithe déine instantane agus polsaithe a chur i iction to oibri ar are in the ndaoine statt ina contrary.
i wrote it. i'm standing by the vote that i'm going to take to the floor to say that there are things that i would like to say that i'm going to say that i'm going to say that i'm going to say that i'm going to say that i'm going to say that i'm going to say that i'm going to say that i'm going to say that i'm going to say that i'm going to say that i'm going to say that i'm going to say that i'm going to say that i'm going to say that i'm going to say that i'm going to say that i'm going to say that i'm going to say that i'm going to say that i'm going to say that i'm going to say that i'm going to say that i'm going to say that i'm going to say that i'm going to say that i'm going to say that i'm going to say that i'm going to say that i'm going to say that i'm going to say that i'm going to say that i'm going to say that i'm going to say that i'm going to say that i'm going to say that i'm going to say that i'm going to say that i'm going to say that i'm going to say that i'm going to say that i'm going to say that i'm going to say that i'm going to say that i'm going to say that i'm going to say that i'm going to say that i'm going to say that i'm going to say that i'm going to say that i'm going to say that i'm going to say that i'm going to say that i'm going it is without doubt that there was a great deal of support for it because it is a very important commission and the current financial framework is very important. it's been said time and time again that you've created a completely different budget than you've reviewed. the programme is a strong public investment programme, investing in the body of the laws and the economy. the investment decision will lead to a reduction in the huge amount of money that is invested in the region and will contribute to its social and economic cohesion. we should not be making laws to cheat. there is a lot of pleas currently under the junker plan. it is important to ensure that public investment does not stop the privatisation of this sector. we must be prepared to accept the policy immediately and to accept the force that operates on the other side rather than against it.
in writing. ‒ the eu needs to promote employment, strengthen our citizensʼ skills, support businesses (smes in particular) and encourage entrepreneurship across the eu. the eu budget is mostly about investment, with around 94 % of the total budget re-invested. it has a strong leverage effect and acts as a catalyst for growth, competitiveness and job creation. by pooling resources, many important investments with european added-value are made possible.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of these guidelines as the european commission is to put the eu budget back in order by tackling the overdue payments backlog.
oral explanations of vote
madam president, i voted in favour of this annual report, which is an important part of the treaties. every year the commission is asked to bring forward a report on the state of play in terms of the level of fraud that exists across the european union. one of the obvious examples of fraud, not just in europe but worldwide, is of course the area of illicit tobacco. the global threat depriving member states is close to eur 10 billion every year in terms of lost revenue. estimates put the potential figure of illegal cigarettes sold on the world market by 2017 at over 628 billion cigarettes. ireland is a prime target for cigarette smuggling. in ireland last year olaf’s operation replica seized 130 million cigarettes. if there is one key message from this report, it is the need for much closer coordination and cooperation between the revenue service, the customs service and the police and border authorities to make sure we get on top of this problem.
written explanations of vote
in writing. ‒ given that fraudulent irregularities in 2013 involved €309 million of eu funding, there is little doubt of the need to fight against fraud and other irregularities. tá sé tabhachtach caiteachas poiblí a chosaint, go háirithe sa ré déine seo. this is particularly the case now, more than ever, in this era of austerity, particularly given that the multiannual financial framework for 2014-2020 represented the first cut to the eu's seven-year budget in 57 years. i am glad to see some recognition in this report of the need for administrative capacity - in detecting fraudulent activity. to detect and prevent financial irregularities, member states and the eu need to adequately invest in training and resourcing people. however, i have serious concerns in relation to the establishment of the european public prosecutor's office and the parameters of its remit. the rationale for the development of eu criminal law is to combat transnational organised crime. the intention is of course to be welcomed, but not at the expense of subjugating the existing judicial systems of individual member states to the interests of the eu and undermining those systems.
in writing. ‒ i abstained in this vote. while there were many positive aspects to this report, i have serious concerns in relation to the establishment of the european public prosecutor's office and the parameters of its remit. the rationale for the development of eu criminal law is to combat transnational organised crime. the intention is of course to be welcomed but not at the expense of subjugating the existing judicial systems of individual member states to the interests of the eu and undermining those systems. however, the overall intention of this report is to be welcomed, which is the fight against fraud and other irregularities. this is particularly the case now, more than ever, in this era of austerity. unfortunately the multiannual financial framework for 2014-2020 represented the first cut to the eu's seven-year budget in 57 years. i am glad to see some recognition in this report of the need for administrative capacity - in detecting fraudulent activity. to detect and prevent financial irregularities, member states and the eu need to adequately train and resource people and, in this regard, more needs to be done.
in writing. ‒ it is important that the european parliament take the lead on strengthening measures to combat fraud in the eu budget. although the total amount of money involved in fraudulent and non-fraudulent irregularities went down, the number of cases went up by 17% in 2013 compared to 2012.
in writing. ‒ given that fraudulent irregularities in 2013 involved €309 million of eu funding, there is little doubt of the need to fight against fraud and other irregularities. tá sé tabhachtach caiteachas poiblí a chosaint, go háirithe sa ré déine seo. this is particularly the case now, more than ever, in this era of austerity, particularly given that the multiannual financial framework for 2014-2020 represented the first cut to the eu's seven-year budget in 57 years. i am glad to see some recognition in this report of the need for administrative capacity - in detecting fraudulent activity. to detect and prevent financial irregularities, member states and the eu need to adequately invest in training and resourcing people. however, i have serious concerns in relation to the establishment of the european public prosecutor's office and the parameters of its remit. the rationale for the development of eu criminal law is to combat transnational organised crime. the intention is of course to be welcomed, but not at the expense of subjugating the existing judicial systems of individual member states to the interests of the eu and undermining those systems. for these reasons i abstained.
oral explanations of vote
written explanations of vote
in writing. ‒ while there were a number of issues highlighted in this report that i welcome, such as the need to tackle corruption, protect the independence of the judiciary and of the media and the need to tackle impunity in war crimes cases, among others, i believe this report should have been stronger on human rights issues in the country. although it mentioned issues such as women's rights, gender equality, lgbti rights etc., it did so briefly and failed to express the importance to that society of addressing systemic discrimination in these areas. significantly, in paragraph 22 the report commends montenegro's role in the "process of regional reconciliation", while, in the same paragraph, "invites relevant eu member states to consider accelerating montenegro's nato accession process in order to enhance regional stability". i do not believe the expansion of nato is consistent with either regional reconciliation or regional stability, and i oppose the call for eu member states to facilitate or encourage nato expansion. for these reasons i voted against this report.
in writing. ‒ while there were a number of issues highlighted in this report that i welcome, such as the need to tackle corruption, protect the independence of the judiciary and of the media and the need to tackle impunity in war crimes cases, among others, i believe this report should have been stronger on human rights issues in the country. although it mentioned issues such as women's rights, gender equality, lgbti rights etc., it did so briefly and failed to express the importance to society of addressing systemic discrimination in these areas. significantly, in paragraph 22 the report commends montenegro's role in the "process of regional reconciliation", while, in the same paragraph, "invites relevant eu member states to consider accelerating montenegro's nato accession process in order to enhance regional stability". i do not believe the expansion of nato is consistent with either regional reconciliation or regional stability, and i oppose the call for eu member states to facilitate or encourage nato expansion. for these reasons i voted against this report.
write it down. ‒ while there were many good things in this report such as the lack of transparency, the lack of independence in britain and the need to have a co-ordinated approach, i think it was right that this report should be much more robust in terms of questions about the whole world. i'm going to talk about things like women's rights, sexual rights, people's rights against women, sex, drugs, and transgender people, and i'm not going to talk about them, but i think it's important to talk about the issues that are important to our society. it is important to note that article 22 of the report describes the role of montenegro in the process of regional reconciliation and calls on relevant eu member states to consider accelerating montenegro's nato accession process in order to enhance regional stability. i do not believe that nato should be involved in regional conflicts or regional security, and i am against the way in which the eu should be involved in nato. because of the sin of the caith, i voted against this report.
oral explanations of vote
written explanations of vote
in writing. ‒ i abstained on the 2014 progress report on macedonia as i feel there are contradictory aspects to it. the report calls for the authorities and civil society to overcome ethnic and identity divisions in macedonia. i welcome this. in ireland we are still working towards national reconciliation and respect for all our identities. recently at our annual party conference, the sinn féin chairperson, speaking about the irish peace process, said:"there should be a fearless resolve to dismantle barriers and build bridges by all sides. those who want to push the peace process backwards, and directly or implicitly oppose reconciliation should be challenged, without fear or favour." unfortunately the report also calls for macedonia's accession to nato. i believe the expansion of nato is contrary to the spirit of peace and reconciliation. hence my abstention.
in writing. ‒ i abstained on the 2014 progress report on macedonia as i feel there are contradictory aspects to it. the report calls for the authorities and civil society to overcome ethnic and identity divisions in macedonia. i welcome this. in ireland we are still working towards national reconciliation and respect for all our identities. recently at our annual party conference, the sinn féin chairperson, speaking about the irish peace process, said:"there should be a fearless resolve to dismantle barriers and build bridges by all sides. those who want to push the peace process backwards, and directly or implicitly oppose reconciliation should be challenged, without fear or favour." unfortunately the report also calls for macedonia's accession to nato. i believe the expansion of nato is contrary to the spirit of peace and reconciliation. hence my abstention.
write it down. - i'm not going to vote for you. the report was prepared by the authorities and the society concerned and was published in the official journal of the european communities. in ireland we are still working towards a national ambition and we want to see all our credibility achieved. recently at a national conference and speaking about the síochána process in éirinn, cathaoirleach shinn féin said: "there should be a fearless resolve to dismantle barriers and build bridges by all sides. those who want to push the peace process backwards, and directly, or implicitly oppose reconciliation should be challenged, without fear or favour. the european union has asked for a report on macedonia's accession to nato. i believe that nato will be forged directly against the syrian people and that the syrian people will not be able to stand for more than that vote.
oral explanations of vote
written explanations of vote
in writing. ‒ there are some positives in this progress report for serbia, particularly calls for enhancing human rights, children's rights, fundamental freedoms, respect for cultural and linguistic diversity, justice and reconciliation. these recommendations are all important issues that need to be dealt with in a post-conflict society such as serbia. in ireland's experience the good friday agreement commits signatories to delivering an irish language act and a bill of rights for the north and charter of human rights for all-ireland. we are still fighting for the implementation of these. so i welcome such recommendations. however i am concerned by calls for "structural economic reforms" and "fiscal consolidation". in ireland's experience these so-called reforms, at the behest of the eu, have caused much hardship particularly to the most vulnerable. on this basis i abstained.
in writing. ‒ there are some positives in this progress report for serbia, particularly calls for enhancing human rights, children's rights, fundamental freedoms, respect for cultural and linguistic diversity, justice and reconciliation. these recommendations are all important issues that need to be dealt with in a post conflict society such as serbia. in ireland's experience the good friday agreement commits signatories to delivering an irish language act and a bill of rights for the north and charter of human rights for all-ireland. we are still fighting for the implementation of these. so i welcome such recommendations. however i am concerned by calls for "structural economic reforms" and "fiscal consolidation". in ireland's experience these so-called reforms, at the behest of the eu, have caused much hardship particularly to the most vulnerable. on this basis i abstained.
write it down. ‒ the report highlights the importance of the right to be heard, the right to be heard, the right to be heard, the right to respect for cultural diversity and the diversity of languages, the right to be heard and the right to be heard. it is in this context that all that is important to be said about the english law and society is that the law should be applied in serbia. in éirinn, agus le comhaontú aoine an chéasta, there are promises to the signatories acht na gaeilge, bille na gceart don tuaisceart agus cairt um chearta an duine don tír ar made to be followed by a first. we are still working on these things. i would like to welcome the many people who have contributed to this report. i was, of course, very surprised to see that report in the wake of structural economic reforms and fiscal consolidation. in irland, there is a lot of work being done on the 'leasuithe' in our society. there's a lot of damage and a lot of damage created here. they're on the other side of the river.
oral explanations of vote
written explanations of vote
in writing. ‒ there were a number of positive aspects in this report on kosovo. the text outlines a number of current social and economic issues facing kosovo including poverty, ethnic division and need for reconciliation, unemployment, minority rights and the social exclusion of, or discrimination against, women, the lgbt community, etc. however, the report also calls for ‘structural economic reforms’ and further liberalisation of its market, which i believe would be damaging for kosovo and its people, as it has been for many other countries in europe and beyond. on this basis i abstained.
in writing. ‒ there were a number of positive aspects in this report on kosovo. the text outlines a number of current social and economic issues facing kosovo including poverty, ethnic division and need for reconciliation, unemployment, minority rights and the social exclusion of, or discrimination against, women, the lgbt community, etc. however, the report also calls for ‘structural economic reforms’ and further liberalisation of its market, which i believe would be damaging for kosovo and its people, as it has been for many other countries in europe and beyond. on this basis i abstained..
write it down. ‒ there were a few questions about the report in the archives. the commission has also been asked to examine the economic and social aspects of the situation, such as the laws on housing, the rules on the right to housing, the rights of the minority and the social issues that are not addressed in the main areas of public policy. the report is, of course, looking for structural economic reforms, but more freedom to market and to believe that this would be in line with the laws in other european countries. because they're not on that vote.
oral explanations of vote
written explanations of vote
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report as it is futile to discuss the proposed aims for the european semester in 2015, when the european commission unremittingly refuses to acknowledge the underlying structural and economic problems which the two-pack and six-pack reforms pose, specifically failing to address the need for wide-scale investment in employment and social investment. reading through the aims of the commission for the 2015 european semester, the focus is supposedly to avoid economic boom and bust cycles, and aimed at restoring economic growth to the eu. however there is no mention of equitable growth and poverty reduction. it shows a clear disconnect between european bureaucrats and the reality that is facing millions of struggling working families in ireland and right across the eu. the european semester reforms’ primary aim seems to be just to ensure that member states do not deviate from the economic neo-liberal ideology that it is pushing. it does not leave member state with flexibility to implement alternative policies, which would be pro-investment, pro-growth, pro-jobs. in effect it is working to deny both irish and other eu citizens real political choices when electing their governments and is further eroding sovereignty and reducing economic independence.
written explanations of vote
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report as it is futile to discuss the proposed aims for the european semester in 2015 when the european commission unremittingly refuses to acknowledge the underlying structural and economic problems which the two-pack and six-pack reforms pose, specifically failing to address the need for wide-scale investment in employment and social investment. in the light of the aims of the european commission for the 2015 european semester, the focus is supposedly on avoiding economic boom-and-bust cycles and restoring economic growth to the eu. however, there is no mention of equitable growth and poverty reduction. it shows a clear disconnect between european bureaucrats and the reality that is facing millions of struggling working families in ireland and right across the eu. the primary aim of reforms concerning the european semester seems to be just to ensure that member states do not deviate from the economic neo-liberal ideology that is being pushed. it does not leave member states with flexibility to implement alternative policies, which would be pro-investment, pro-growth and pro-jobs. in effect it is working to deny both irish and other eu citizens real political choices when electing their governments and is further eroding sovereignty and reducing economic independence.
written explanations of vote
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report as it contained nothing new or of substance. it was simply repackaging earlier reports and advocating what is a failed economic paradigm. moreover, the singular focus on the single market fails to address serious democratic deficit concerns, further eroding sovereignty and reducing economic independence for both ireland and other member states. for this reason, i voted against.
written explanations of vote
in writing. ‒ our focus in this resolution is on the safety and well-being of the child. it is our responsibility to ensure that there are genuine measures to protect children, but we must ensure such measures are appropriate and proportionate; to ensure that measures protecting children are balanced with children's rights to access information on the internet and utilise it for educational and communication purposes; to protect fundamental rights of people in relation to internet freedom; and to protect against the privatisation of internet security/policing. unlike the resolutions from the other groups, the gue/ngl resolution respects legal due process and the separation of powers, balanced with respect for citizens' fundamental and democratic rights. for this reason we abstained on the joint motion for a resolution.
in writing. ‒ i abstained on this resolution as my party's focus is primarily on the safety and well-being of the child. it is our collective responsibility to ensure that there are genuine measures to protect children, but we must ensure such measures are appropriate and proportionate; to ensure that measures protecting children are balanced with children's rights to access information on the internet and utilise it for educational and communication purposes; to protect fundamental rights of people in relation to internet freedom; and to protect against the privatisation of internet security/policing. the resolution that we tabled was child-centred and protected the best interests of the child. moreover, unlike the resolutions from the other groups, the gue/ngl resolution respects legal due process and the separation of powers, balanced with the protection of children's rights and citizens' fundamental and democratic rights. for this reason we abstained on the joint motion for a resolution.
in writing. – children are our future and we must do everything in our power to keep them safe. the eu has the chance to establish laws that will apply across borders, something which is ever more relevant when we are dealing with crimes perpetrated through the internet. the directive on combating sexual abuse and exploitation of child on the internet finally lays down the common minimum sanctions for the offences. it is now up to the individual member states to transpose this directive into effective national law.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report as it is vital to protect child victims, 80% of whom are under 10, and remove any illegal online content.
in writing. ‒ i abstained on this resolution as my party's focus is primarily on the safety and well-being of the child. it is our collective responsibility to ensure that there are genuine measures to protect children, but we must ensure such measures are appropriate and proportionate; to ensure that measures protecting children are balanced with children's rights to access information on the internet and utilise it for educational and communication purposes; to protect fundamental rights of people in relation to internet freedom; and to protect against the privatisation of internet security/policing. the resolution that we tabled was child-centred and protected the best interests of the child. moreover, unlike the resolutions from the other groups, the gue/ngl resolution respects legal due process and the separation of powers, balanced with the protection of children's rights and citizens' fundamental and democratic rights. for this reason we abstained on the joint motion for a resolution.
we will take the remainder of the explanations of votes tomorrow after the voting session. that concludes the explanations of vote. (the sitting was suspended at 14.45 and resumed at 15.00)
the president, however, has the right to make his views known again in the report, but the situation is very different from that which has been reported in the past few years. we know that the issues with the us are far more important than the cheapest things, and we may not have to look at what happened in the us in the ukraine to understand. when they entered the european parliament today, no police cars were near the parliament and they seemed to be watching the gunmen outside the parliament. perhaps we should not be so alarmed at the fact that the romish singers have no doubt that we are not at present the only people in europe who have no doubt that we are the only ones who are going to speak about the future. i was told to be united with you and i said to commissioner mogherini, i was told to work with you. he said yes gurb is sin an eochair chun dul ar aghaidh agus an ceart aici sa mhéid sin. i would like to see you too, so that our hearts may be filled with the hope that king abdulladh ii will give us a better life.
madam president, at the outset, i would like to say that if a member of this house has used the words ‘poison in society’ when referring to members of the gay and lesbian community, i think that this parliament should disassociate themselves from that remark and i would like it if you would do something to address that, madam president. in my notes that i made i wanted to welcome the special attention this report has given to issues such as freedom of religion, freedom of expression and violence against women and young girls and, in particular, the focus that it places on the issues of forced child labour, poverty and malnutrition. all too often we hear horrific stories of rape, torture, and forced marriage, of young women in particular, and we have an obligation to help them. the best policy that we can do is to support them, to engage with them and maybe to educate them as well, which is something we have heard recently in many debates in this chamber, and to allow them to think and to act for themselves. the report reiterates the importance of mainstreaming human rights and democracy in all eu activities and calls for the commitment of placing human rights at the centre of all eu relations with third countries. we see that what we have to do is more than just words, we have to support people with freedom of religion, freedom of expression and indeed freedom of thought.
madam president, we have an expression in the irish language – ‘ní neart go cur le chéile’ – which means ‘together we are much stronger’, and it is together, working with the league of arab states, that we can defeat those who are intent on attacking our own way of life here in europe. when it comes to the situation in libya, to the middle east peace process and to syria and iraq, we share a common interest in looking for long-lasting solutions to ensure regional peace and stability. it is together, working with the league of arab states, that we can counter the threat that groups like isis pose to both the middle east and the rest of the world. the rising threat posed by islamic fundamentalists to our young people in europe is a concern. together with the arab world, we are fully aware that this is not only a military fight but also a political and a cultural one. the question of how to de-radicalise and integrate the disaffected person is one of the key points on which our strategy focuses, and a primary point of focus for parliament and the commission is the fact that, of the approximately 10 000 foreign fighters in crisis regions, more than 3 000 radical islamists are from europe. most of them are young men and they are travelling to fight in countries like syria. the rise of isis makes it clear that there is no room for complacency among the international community when it comes to the growth of extremism among our young people. we must cooperate on security, intelligence, early warning protocols and counter—terrorism measures.
mr president, i think this is an excellent document and it summarises very clearly what needs to be achieved. one point i would like to highlight in particular is paragraph 8, which says that members of the council should only come from states that uphold respect for human rights. i think that is something we should certainly push, because it would make a very important diplomatic statement. secondly, one has to ask the question, are violations of human rights lessening or growing in the world? certainly the barbarity seems to be growing, when in recent times we have had beheadings, public floggings, burning people alive, and sometimes this is done in the name of religion. i think we should recall what king abdullah ii of jordan said, that ʽno religion espouses hate, religion is about love and respectʼ. i think that is something that needs to be brought home to many people. i also agree with what has been said about women’s rights, and also in relation to culture and sports events – we can move there.
a uachtaráin, is cuimhin liom to be talking to the parliament here cúpla bliain ó shin nuair a fuair an tsúdáin theas neamhspleáchas agus ag an am without bhíomar dóchasach go rachadh an tír ar aghaidh, ach ní mar without a tharla faraor. i actually did imitate him. no one can do anything when they're caught by cathartha and the sea is theirs. it's tragic that they're using children to kill themselves; that they're going to school to take children to school, that they're going to shoot people in the face, that they're going to kill themselves. the commission shall endeavour to ensure that the laws in force are respected and that appropriate resources are made available, in particular through the use of the funds available to schools to open up education to young people.
mr president, thank you for the opportunity of explaining my support for the semester. i think it is crucially important if we are to really deal with the problems of poverty and inequality in europe that we create a pro-jobs, enterprising europe where countries are encouraged to create jobs and where the right environment is there. that is the best way to tackle poverty. the case in ireland recently where in excess of 90 000 net new jobs have been created over a three-year period is an example of how the restructuring of our economy has helped to create more jobs, reducing unemployment from 15% to 10%. this year alone in ireland in excess of 40 000 net new jobs will be created. so here is an example of a country that can restructure itself based on the recommendations that were there within the semester and create real job opportunities for people. finally, can i say this. another reason why i voted in favour of the semester is that we need the same set of rules for every country within the eurozone and for every country within the european union. we cannot have one rule for big countries and another rule for small countries. that is why it is important that we stick to these rules... (the president cut off the speaker)
the president, like the other feisirí chuir marú cheannaire an fhreasúra, boris nemtsov, deistin ormsa agus chuir a lán daoine an cheist: conas go bhféadfadh a leithéid tarlú chomh gairid laws an gcreimil. the president, like the other feisirí eile chuir marú cheannaire an fhreasúra, boris nemtsov, deistin ormsa agus chuir a lán daoine an cheist: conas go bhféadfadh a leithéid tarlú chomh gairid laws an gcreimil? there was a lot of anxiety about people under sin. i'm also very proud to have been chosen to be a partner of my friend, sandra kalniete, in an old raid. she was held at an airport, taken to a documentary studio and had to stay there for several hours to find out what was going on. the eu is a great example of how much we can do to help the poorest countries in the world. rud amháin nach bhfuil mé ró-shásta faoi inniu ná nach raibh vótaíl le glao rol againn ag an deireadh; it was the general vote of the people. it would be better if we knew how much we were doing in that report. be better than putin's theachtaireacht gives him a right figure. but outside of sin, i voted for my group in all the votes.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because i believe it is important that the eu continues to demonstrate its position on the key security issues facing the world. we are currently at an important moment in global security policy and it is important that the eu and its member states coordinates closely to protect european values and establish its potential as a global player.
the president, there are many things in the report that i voted for with my group in all the votes. the aths also have a group against some of the many, especially those who are trying to get rid of the people. i do not think that human rights are sinful, but in exceptional cases they are written down, such as the constitution of ireland. taobh amuigh sin, there are a lot of an-mhaith anseo agus go háirithe bhí áthas orm gur glacadh laws an leasú to bhéal a bhaineann lenár n-oidhreacht chultúrtha a chosaint. the law is not a law, it is a law. it's not important chomh maith. therefore, i will hold all good things in reserve, out of which the world will not be able to avail itself.
in writing. ‒ this report is a call to the eu to protect and promote human rights across europe and to ensure that democracy and human rights are at the core of its actions and policies. it is regrettable that last year the practice of sending a european parliament delegation to relevant un human rights council and general assembly sessions was interrupted. we should work ever more closely with the unhrc.
in writing. ‒ i abstained in the final vote on this report as i believe that matters covered in this report are subject to the subsidiarity principle.
in writing. ‒ there are a number of positive aspects to this resolution. it talks about the importance of respecting fundamental rights in ‘counter-terrorism’ strategies and the need to deal with root causes. it calls for stopping the death penalty and the use of torture, and warns against the exploitation of ‘counter-terrorism’ strategies to attack opposition movements in some countries. it also calls for publication of the memorandum of understanding between the eu and las, which i agree would be in the interest of transparency and democratic accountability. however, there is no recognition that the recent rise in violent extremism in iraq and syria is related to the us—led invasion of iraq in 2003 – which was supported by some eu member states such as britain – as is the subsequent destruction and destabilisation in that country and the surrounding region. i believe this is a significant omission. if the serious threat of violent extremism is to be stopped affectively, an honest and sufficient analysis of how the threat developed is required. considering the positive aspects of the resolution and its shortcomings mentioned above, i voted ‘abstention’.
mr president, this is a topic which is very important for my country, particularly because we have been ahead of the curve in our efforts to conserve stocks of sea bass. everybody knows that without conservation methods, without proper scientific up-to-date information, one cannot have a sustainable fishing industry, and we certainly have done an awful lot in this area in the last 20 years, where commercial landing of sea bass was not allowed and for leisure purposes it has been very limited. for that reason we would not have a track record and, if the tacs were to come in, it could actually discriminate against a country like ireland, which has done so much in this area, when things are beginning to come right. that is the point i want to make on behalf of the fishing community of my country. i hope it will be taken into consideration when this comes to be implemented under the cfp.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this motion for resolution as overfishing is a serious problem which needs to be addressed.
aachtaráin, again i voted my group ins in the most all here agus arís, mar a fheicim, bhí tagairt ann do ghinmhilleadh to be ar fáil go forleathan. it's almost every report now that says that the right thing is wrong. taobh amuigh sin there are many good things here agus caithfimid obair orthu, especially chun cothromaíocht to thabhairt do mhná ach go háirithe. it is important that, not only in europe but also in the world, there should be equality between women and men and there is no reason why we should not have equality around the world. freisin, caithfimid cearta an duine oig a chosaint agus cháineamar ar maidin an cleachtadh sa tsúdáin theas daoine óg a thógaint agus iad a chur isteach san arm agus gunnaí a thabhairt dóibh agus mar sin de i.e. saighdiúirí óga. freisin, caithfimid cearta an duine óig a chosaint agus cháineamar ar maidin an cleachtadh sa tsúdáin theas daoine óg a thógaint agus iad a chur isteach san arm agus gunnaí a thabhairt dóibh agus mar sin de i.e. saighdiúirí óga. freisin, caithfimid cearta an duine óig a chosaint agus cháineamar ar maidin an cleachtadh sa tsúdáin theas daoine óg a thógaint agus iad a chur isteach san arm agus gunnaí a thabhairt dóibh agus mar sin de i.e. theas daoine óg a thógaint agus agus agus iad a chur isteach san arm agus gunnaí a thabhairt dóibh agus mar sin de i.e. i'm not even fairly well-liked. and at the last point, i think that no country should have a council if it doesn't respect civil and human rights in its own country.
in writing. ‒ this resolution prioritised a wide range of human rights issues such as social and economic rights, women’s rights, civil and political rights, rights of the child, lgbti rights, and human rights in the context of climate change. it also expresses full support for the role of the international criminal court. it referred specifically to a number of challenges such as socio-economic rights concerning access to food, water, healthcare, education, housing etc. and the need to address extreme inequalities as a means to fight poverty. it also identified tax evasion and the mismanagement of public goods as a violation of citizens’ rights which, it pointed out, diverts funds from investment in much-needed public services. it also condemns violence against women in war and peacetime and recognises the vital role of women in peace-building. i welcome palestine being named a priority country and the denouncement of israel for not cooperating with the un commission of inquiry into gaza. unfortunately, the resolution does not state clearly that the illegal occupation and blockade are the root cause of the conflict in palestine. overall however, the resolution was much more positive than negative. i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour. this resolution prioritised a wide range of human rights issues such as social and economic rights, women’s rights, civil and political rights, rights of the child, lgbti rights, and human rights in the context of climate change. it also expresses full support for the role of the international criminal court. it referred specifically to a number of challenges such as socio-economic rights concerning access to food, water, healthcare, education, housing etc. and the need to address extreme inequalities as a means to fight poverty. it also identified tax evasion and the mismanagement of public goods as a violation of citizens’ rights which, it pointed out, diverts funds from investment in much-needed public services. it also condemns violence against women in war and peacetime and recognises the vital role of women in peace-building. i welcome palestine being named a priority country and the denouncement of israel for not cooperating with the un commission of inquiry into gaza. unfortunately, the resolution does not state clearly that the illegal occupation and blockade are the root cause of the conflict in palestine. overall, however, the resolution was much more positive than negative. i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report as it includes key human rights provisions such as human rights mainstreaming, the death penalty, human rights and climate change and the rights of the child. i also think we need to recognise the importance of sending parliamentary delegations to sessions of the human rights council and to other relevant un general assembly sessions in order to seek ways to support countries in the fulfilment of their human rights obligations.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report as i think the parliament needs to express its concern at the deteriorating situation in venezuela. reports of political persecution and repression of democratic opposition need to be raised on the international stage and pressure needs to be applied to the authorities to stop any human rights abuses.
madam president, i very much welcome the commission’s proposals of last week and i also welcome the fact that we are moving in relation to the automatic exchange of tax information. i believe european citizens stand united in opposing aggressive tax planning and on making sure that corporates and large businesses pay their fair share. i do not believe, however, that ordinary eu citizens want a fully harmonised tax code, and i think that this is ultimately a matter for the member states to decide by way of direct elections in each country. however, we have to take an aggressive position when it comes to large corporates which are using all of the facilities to evade taxation. finally, i want to say this: we also need a radical debate in this parliament and elsewhere, especially in the commission, about effective tax rates because there are many countries within the european union which claim to have a tax rate of 30% but effectively have a tax rate of 8%, 9% or 10%. this debate must focus on effective tax rates because that is the important way to shine a light on this entire area.
madam president, i concur completely with my colleague mr hayes, who outlined our position as regards this whole dossier. we absolutely agree that tax avoidance, tax evasion, and also the exchange of tax information, are key aspects dealt with in this proposal, and we are in favour of that. but we cannot accept the inclusion of common consolidated corporate tax base (cccbt) proposals. i note that quite a number of small countries have difficulty with this, and we think it discriminates against them. competition is the life of trade, and it applies to tax as well in the european union. for that reason we want to emphasise that we cannot accept this proposal, and we have voted against it every time in the past.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place shortly. written statements (rule 162)
the next item is the report by gabrielius landsbergis, on behalf of the committee on international trade, on macro-financial assistance to ukraine (com(2015)0005 – c8-0005/2015 – 2015/0005(cod)) (a8-0056/2015).
the debate is closed. the vote will be held shortly. written statements (rule 162)
mr president, i agree with the concept of a minimum wage. i think it is very important, and i am glad that germany has introduced such a scheme. however, different states have different rates and the cost of the minimum wage in germany is different to that in ireland, different to that in the czech republic, different to that in bulgaria. in individual states we have different approaches to wage levels, and indeed to taxation, and the cost of living can vary. i do know – and i do understand – there has been unfair treatment of workers, exploitation of workers, and that should not happen, but we cannot have one country setting itself up as judge and jury in this whole area. i would urge the commission to do something about this, because in the absence of a policy in this area we get the kind of situation we are discussing now. it is important that this void be filled and it needs to be addressed. my main concern in this whole issue is that i have been contacted by irish road haulage operators who are concerned at the level of bureaucracy, the level of red tape, that it will involve for them. it will certainly add to their costs. it will discourage them from crossing germany. they will maybe seek alternative routes, increasing their costs again and ultimately increasing the cost to the consumer. i think it is important that we have a moratorium while we address this situation, which ultimately has to be decided on an eu—wide basis. i do not think we can have one country dictating how we operate in this area.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report. this report is concerned with the re-integration into the labour market of an estimated 958 workers of 16 enterprises operating in the programming and broadcasting sector in the greek region of attica. this is a particularly important issue for me, as only recently in my own constituency and my home town of carrickmacross, 140 workers were made redundant from our local bose factory. this has had a devastating effect on the workers, their families and the wider community. we do not yet know if an application for funding from the european globalisation fund will be made in this instance, but adequate support for the workers in retraining and up—skilling must be provided in any case. the fund plays a vital role in ameliorating what is a very distressing situation for workers who have found their whole livelihoods placed into disarray. in what is often a very harrowing situation, it is important to focus on the positive and constructive options which are available. however, i would like to add a general qualification that no government should use this fund as justification for making workers redundant.
in writing. ‒ i am pleased to support the application for the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund made by attica broadcasting. the european globalisation adjustment fund was set up to provide additional assistance to workers who have lost their jobs as a result of major structural changes in world trade patterns. attica broadcasting was a large employer in the attica region of greece, and the 928 redundancies which have resulted from its closure have had a significant adverse impact on the local economy, which was already struggling with large-scale unemployment. i therefore voted in favour of this report as it is a means by which the eu can give valuable help to the local economy and support the workers affected by helping them re-enter the labour market.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report. this report is concerned with the re-integration into the labour market of an estimated 705 workers of 46 enterprises operating in the publishing sector in the greek region of attica. this is a particularly important issue for me as only recently in my own constituency and my home town of carrickmacross, 140 workers were made redundant from our local bose factory. this has had a devastating effect on the workers, their families and the wider community. we do not yet know if an application for funding from the european globalisation fund will be made in this instance, but adequate support for workers in retraining and up—skilling must be provided in any case. the fund plays a vital role in ameliorating what is a very distressing situation for workers who have found their whole livelihoods placed into disarray. in what is often a very harrowing situation, it is important to focus on the positive and constructive options which are available. however, i would like to add a general qualification that no government should use this fund as justification for making workers redundant.
in writing. ‒ i am pleased to support the application for the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund made for attica publishing activities. the european globalisation adjustment fund was set up to provide additional assistance to workers who have lost their jobs as a result of major structural changes in world trade patterns. attica publishing activities were a major employer in the attica region of greece, and the 705 redundancies which have resulted from its closure have had a significant adverse impact on the local economy, which was already struggling with large-scale unemployment. i therefore voted in favour of this report as it is a means by which the eu can give valuable help to the local economy and support the workers affected by helping them re-enter the labour market.
in writing. ‒ this report related to the waiver of parliamentary immunity of antónio marinho e pinto, who is a portuguese mep. by waiving an immunity defence, parliament does not formulate any opinion on the probability of guilt or not of the mep in question. it only looks at applying the rules on immunity (rule 7 of its rules of procedure and protocol no 7 to the tfeu) to these cases. when it finds that defamatory statements are made that have no direct and obvious connection to the performance of their duties as an mep, then it decides to waive immunity, so that court proceedings in the national member state can be brought or continue. on this basis, i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ this report related to the waiver of parliamentary immunity of ivan jakovčić, who is a croatian alde mep. by waiving an immunity defence, parliament does not formulate any opinion on the probability of guilt or not of the mep in question. it only looks at applying the rules on immunity (rule 7 of its rules of procedure and protocol no 7 to the tfeu) to these cases. when it finds that defamatory statements are made that have no direct and obvious connection to the performance of their duties as an mep, then it decides to waive immunity, so that court proceedings in the national member state can be brought or continue. on this basis, i voted in favour of this report.
i wrote it. the vote on the matter was taken at the request of the european parliament, which decided to grant a discharge to those who had been dismissed as a result of an economic crisis. the irish case is the basis for the 250 complaints against lufthansa technik and 200 people against the host company. the impact of the body on the local food and dance scene is enormous. it was a very lonely place that was under the misfortune of the low level of educational management. however, the skills required for this job will mean that they will be able to work in a different job in a different sector. the transition to a job in the public sector is a major challenge for the labour market, and the eu is committed to supporting the development of the labour market. it normally takes at least 500 people to apply to the egf, but we welcome many people to join us before they start working.
i wrote it. the committee voted in favour of this report because it recognises that there is a need for a european domestic choice fund (edc) to provide opportunities for those who have been displaced by economic crises. the irish case is the first of 250 cases of fraud against lufthansa technik and the second of 200 cases of fraud against the host company. the influence of the dúnadh an chomhlachta is great in the local food and dance scene. it was a very lonely place that was under the misfortune of the low level of educational management. without laws, it is difficult to find jobs in the public sector. the commission has also decided to grant a loan of eur 2 490 758 to help people who have just started work in the education sector, which means that it will be easier for them to find jobs in other sectors. it usually takes at least 500 people to apply to the edc, but we welcome any major changes in the way people apply to the system.
in writing. ‒ i am pleased to support the application for the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund made by lufthansa technik ireland ltd. the european globalisation adjustment fund was set up to provide additional assistance to workers who have lost their jobs as a result of major structural changes in world trade patterns. lufthansa technik was a major employer in rathcoole, co. dublin, and the 250 redundancies which have resulted from its closure have had a significant adverse impact on the local economy. i very much welcome this eur 2.5m investment by the eu, which will be used to help start new businesses, provide career planning assistance, training opportunities and further education programmes for the former workers, as well as up to 200 young people in the area who are not in employment or education. this is a good example of the practical support the european union can offer those hardest hit by the economic crisis, in particular young people, and help revive the local economy.
write it down. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because i know that there is a european domestic choice fund (edc) which provides a good opportunity to help those who have been left behind by economic crises. the irish case is the first of 250 cases of fraud against lufthansa technik and the second of 200 cases of fraud against the host company. the influence of the dúnadh an chomhlachta is great in the local food and dance scene. it was a very lonely place that was under the misfortune of the low level of educational management. without laws, it is difficult to find jobs in the public sector. the commission has also decided to grant a loan of eur 2 490 758 to help people who have just started work in the education sector, which means that it will be easier for them to find jobs in other sectors. it usually takes at least 500 people to apply to the edc, but we welcome any major changes in the way people apply to the system.
in writing. ‒ this report related to the waiver of parliamentary immunity of gabriele albertini, who is an italian ex-mep of the epp group. by waiving an immunity defence, parliament does not formulate any opinion on the probability of guilt or not of the mep in question. it only looks at applying the rules on immunity (rule 7 of its rules of procedure and protocol no 7 to the tfeu) to these cases. when it finds that defamatory statements are made that have no direct and obvious connection to the performance of their duties as an mep, then it decides to waive immunity, so that court proceedings in the national member state can be brought or continue. on this basis, i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ it is clear that ukraine is facing a deteriorating humanitarian crisis and it is widely recognised that ongoing conflict there has caused this situation to become progressively worse. in this context it is disappointing that the commission proposal does not include a proposal for a political agreement for a peaceful resolution of the conflict. furthermore, the macro-financial assistance of eur 1.8 billion proposed by the commission is tied to austerity through macro-economic adjustments and structural ‘reform’. the proposal does not say how such structural ‘reform’ will improve the economy of ukraine, or how it will impact on its people, as it currently endures a conflict that has seen approximately 1.2 million of its citizens internally displaced. sinn féin welcomes efforts to assist ukraine in dealing with its humanitarian situation. indeed i voted in favour of amendments improving the commission proposal. however, given that the proposal is fundamentally based on a flawed austerity model, which i believe will not improve the humanitarian situation for the people of ukraine, i abstained on the overall legislative resolution.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report. the macro-financial assistance system, given to politically, economically and socially close partners of the eu, and only those which are under the imf disbursement programme, has seen countries such as ukraine, georgia and armenia benefit from these loans and grants, enabling them to stabilise and continue their economic and fiscal reforms. these countries are our close partner countries in need of an urgent financial assistance and we have to take into consideration geo-political, strategic, but at the same time mutual, benefits the eu and these countries have from this type of financial and policy cooperation. our position in the world is to lead and to assure our partners that we will be there to assist them when in need and support them in their path towards economic and structural reforms which complement the eu’s political and economic norms and values.
i wrote it. ‒ it is clear that the military hierarchy in ukraine is present in the huaire and that it is necessary to forleathan gurb i an choimhlint based on laws. in this context, it is regrettable that there is not much political agreement on a solution such as the one proposed by the commission. in addition, the commission has already adopted three laws and regulations on macro-financial and structural assistance amounting to eur 1.8 billion. it does not indicate how the legislation will affect the geographic situation in ukraine, nor how it will affect the population in the country. sinn féin welcomes the efforts of the uk to bring about economic reforms in ukraine. chaith me vota i bhfabhar na leasuithe a chuir feabhas ar thogra an choimisiúin. i'm not going to let you go. of course, since the togra is based on the model of the deine lochtach agus ceann nach gcabhróidh le muintir in ukraine, they are more on the solution.
in writing. ‒ there were positive aspects to this report including the focus on tax transparency. however, much of what was being proposed lacked any real substance or force. if there was a serious intention to affect real positive change in this field, the proposals would not have been a simple re-packaging of a failed economic paradigm. instead, there would have been concrete measures put in place in order to move towards real tax transparency. for sinn féin, tax evasion and cross-border tax fraud is a major concern as untaxed income is considerably reducing our national tax revenues. as ireland tries to find a sustainable economic recovery it is crucial that we develop a healthier reputation as a transparent place to pay tax and face up to any changes necessary to create a transparent global tax system where multinationals cannot escape their duties to countries, including developing countries. there were also objectionable provisions in this report, which attempted to interfere with states’ taxation policies. direct taxation is a matter of national competency and the eu has no role in dictating or interfering with irish taxation policies. it was for these reasons that i abstained.
in writing. ‒ the irish epp delegation voted against the annual tax report. while we are in favour of many aspects of this report, we do not agree that paragraph 25, which calls on the commission to carefully study the introduction of a minimum corporate tax rate, is appropriate in this report. the eu treaties clearly state that corporate tax rates are not an eu competence: it is for member states to decide. we are firmly against aggressive tax planning and believe that the eu has a role in addressing tax evasion from large corporations, but member states should have the freedom to set their own corporate tax rates.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the annual tax report 2013. while i am in favour of many aspects of this report, i do not agree that paragraph 25, which calls on the commission to carefully study the introduction of a minimum corporate tax rate, is appropriate in this report. the eu treaties clearly state that corporate tax rates are not an eu competence, it is for member states to decide. i am firmly against aggressive tax planning and believe that the eu has a role in addressing tax evasion from large corporations, but member states should have the freedom to set their own corporate tax rates.
in writing. ‒ there were positive aspects to this report including the focus on tax transparency; however, much of what was being proposed lacked any real substance or force. if there was a serious concern with effecting real positive change in this field, the proposals would not have been a simple repackaging of a failed economic paradigm. instead, there would have been concrete measures put in place in order to move towards real tax transparency. for my party, tax evasion and cross-border tax fraud is a major concern as untaxed income is considerably reducing our national tax revenues. as ireland tries to find a sustainable economic recovery it is crucial that we develop a healthier reputation as a transparent place to pay tax, and face up to any changes necessary to create a transparent global tax system where multinationals cannot escape their duties to countries, including developing countries. there were also objectionable provisions in this report, which attempted to interfere with member states’ taxation policies. direct taxation is a matter of national competency and the eu has no role in dictating or interfering with irish taxation policies or indeed in other member states’ tax policies. it was for these reasons that i abstained.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report. this report is concerned with the re-integration into the labour market of workers who have been made redundant. the fund plays a vital role in ameliorating what is a very distressing situation for workers who have found their whole livelihoods placed into disarray. in what is often a very harrowing situation, it is important to focus on positive and constructive options which are available. however, i would like to add a general qualification that no government should use this fund as a justification for making workers redundant.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this egf application to support 2 513 workers made redundant from the road haulage industry in france. the overall fund is just over eur 10 million with a eur 6 million contribution from the egf which represents 60% of the total costs. i am particularly pleased to see that over 17% of the beneficiaries which french authorities expect to target are aged 55-64, as this is a group particularly vulnerable to long-term unemployment and social exclusion.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report as the european globalisation adjustment fund is an important fund which provides additional support for workers made redundant as a result of major structural changes in world trade patterns due to globalisation or the financial crisis. this fund retrains and reskills redundant workers helping them find new jobs.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report as the specific vote concerned the extension of the mandate of the chair of the committee from 2 to 4 years. in the proposal for the change of the mandate, the extension is linked to the cycle of the european semester, including also country-specific recommendations. the european semester is a fundamentally undemocratic pact. its focus is supposedly to avoid economic boom and bust cycles, and is aimed at restoring economic growth to the eu. however, there is no mention of equitable growth and poverty reduction. it shows a clear disconnect between european bureaucrats and the reality that is facing millions of struggling working families in ireland and right across the eu. the european semester reform’s primary aim seems to be just to ensure that member states do not deviate from the economic neo-liberal ideology that it is pushing. it does not leave member states with flexibility to implement alternative policies, which would be pro-investment, pro-growth, pro-jobs. in effect it is working to deny both irish and other eu citizens real political choices when electing their governments and is further eroding sovereignty and reducing economic independence.
in writing. ‒ i supported this report to establish the social protection committee to advise and promote cooperation on social protection policies between member states and with the commission. it has demonstrated its utility as an advisory body for both the council and commission in the past and will continue to do so by monitoring the social situation and development of social protection policies in member states and by promoting exchanges of information and good practice between member states and with the commission. in particular i support the notion that the social dimension of the emu should be strengthened by ensuring better coordination of employment and social polices and the use of social and employment indicators.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report as the specific vote concerned the extension of the mandate of the chair of the committee from 2 to 4 years. in the proposal for the change of the mandate, the extension is linked to the cycle of the european semester, including also country-specific recommendations. the european semester is a fundamentally undemocratic pact. its focus is supposedly to avoid economic boom and bust cycles, and is aimed at restoring economic growth to the eu. however, there is no mention of equitable growth and poverty reduction. it shows a clear disconnect between european bureaucrats and the reality that is facing millions of struggling working families in ireland and right across the eu. the european semester reform’s primary aim seems to be just to ensure that member states do not deviate from the economic neo-liberal ideology that it is pushing. it does not leave member states with flexibility to implement alternative policies, which would be pro-investment, pro-growth, pro-jobs. in effect it is working to deny both irish and other eu citizens real political choices when electing their governments and is further eroding sovereignty and reducing economic independence.
in writing. ‒ i was happy to support this report to establish the employment committee. the committee, by advising both the council and commission, aims to ensure coordination of the employment situation and policies of member states by enhancing the consistency and effectiveness of such policies with a coordinated strategy with a particular focus on the promotion of a skilled, trained and adaptable workforce. it is also important to note the committee’s role in the framework of the european semester.
in writing. ‒ this report proposed to increase the ceilings on various headings. it needs to be stated for clarification that the increase does not provide new money – instead it is money being moved from 2014 to 2015 as various programmes were not adopted by the end of 2014. however, it was necessary to vote in favour of this report in order to enable this technical change.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report to help fund 300 state-managed programmes, in all eu member states, that started too late to qualify for eu funding in 2014.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the joint motion for resolution on the centenary of the armenian genocide. the killing of approximately one-and-a-half million people from the armenian community one hundred years ago, in what was then the ottoman empire, was a genocide. indeed an increasing number of member states and national parliaments recognise the armenian genocide. dealing with the past and truth recovery are vital to any meaningful reconciliation process, a fact we in sinn féin are keenly aware of given our own post-conflict situation in ireland. the joint motion for a resolution expresses recognition of the armenian genocide in the context of on-going and further reconciliation between armenia and turkey. this is to be welcomed.
in writing. ‒ today in plenary, we commemorated the 100th anniversary of the armenian genocide. in 1915, one-and-a-half million innocent armenian victims perished in the south-east part of the ottoman empire, what is today turkey. however, parliament does recognise the current government’s efforts to improve its attitudes towards the armenian minority still present in turkey today. furthermore, there is room for greater mutual understanding which can be achieved through cooperation between armenia and turkey.
in writing. ‒ i supported this resolution as an increasing number of member states and national parliaments are this year recognising the centenary of the tragic events that took place against the armenians in the territory of the ottoman empire. i believe it is appropriate to pay tribute to the memory of the one and a half million innocent armenian victims who perished in the ottoman empire. the importance of remembering such tragic events of the past is paramount to the future, as there can be no reconciliation without the truth of remembrance. i would also like to pledge my support for the establishment of an international remembrance day for genocides to recall once again the right of people and nations throughout the world to peace and dignity.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution to commemorate the centenary of the armenian genocide. armenia and turkey should use the centenary of the armenian genocide to renew diplomatic relations, open the border and pave the way for economic integration.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution. the resolution seeks to recognise the discrimination that roma have been suffering since the 14th century and calls for the historical recognition of the roma genocide during world war 2 (ww2). it is vital that collectively we must unite to eliminate all forms of human rights violations from society.
in writing. ‒ today, some small but highly symbolic steps have been taken towards achieving recognition of the plight of ethnic minorities in the european union, starting from the recognition of the roma genocide in world war ii. it is estimated that 500 000 roma were murdered and in some countries more than 80% of the roma population was exterminated. today, we officially acknowledge the roma genocide which took place during the second world war. anti-gypsyism is very much alive today, and the discrimination it entails must not be ignored.
in writing. ‒ i supported this resolution as i would like to recognise and commemorate the genocide of roma during world war ii. this memorial day is paramount for providing roma people with restitution where appropriate for the atrocities committed against them by the nazi and other regimes and their allies during ww ii. we need to take responsibility for our failure as a society to stand up to this discrimination and recognise the rights of these individuals. it is time to provide the necessary structures for individuals to invoke their rights and ensure that specific measures for women’s rights and gender mainstreaming are included in the national roma integration strategies (nris). it is time to call on the commission to consider children a priority when implementing the eu framework for national roma strategies and it is time for member states to effectively implement the council directive 200/43/ec that reinforces the principle of equal treatment between persons, irrespective of racial or ethnic origin, in order to prevent and eliminate discrimination against roma, in particular in employment, education and access to housing.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution as more needs to be done to end discrimination, hate crime and hate speech against roma people.
the gue/ngl group is the leader. the president, who is the head of the government, is responsible for ensuring that the budget is not ineffective and represents an untenable environment for the implementation of the laws. i think it's just as important to give small fishermen what they need to be able to work because of the hundreds of rules that are in place in the fishing industry. i'm trying to make sure that the regulations don't have a negative impact on them. is it difficult to be technically involved in a landing without putting a lease into effect? is it difficult to be technically involved in a landing without putting a lease into effect? it is so important that we have a clear understanding of the situation that we are facing, and we have a right to be informed by scientific advice, but if we have a clear understanding, then we have no laws in place, we have no rules, we have no rules at all.
mr president, next thursday jean-claude trichet will answer questions from members of the irish parliament banking inquiry in dublin. one question has haunted the irish psyche over the past number of years and that is: just what role did mr trichet and the ecb play in the decision to pay, in full, unsecured and unguaranteed bondholders in insolvent irish banks. were the irish authorities threatened with punitive financial measures if they did not pay the bondholders in 2010, and later on in 2011? ashoka mody and ajai chopra, two senior imf officials who were part of the troika, have both since stated that they supported haircuts for bust banks, but were overruled by senior management in the imf and the ecb. yes, it was a time of crisis and contagion, but in my opinion the ecb exceeded its remit. it violated the treaties by insisting that the irish authorities bail out insolvent banks and impose the full costs on irish taxpayers. mr trichet must answer these questions in a full and frank manner because this goes to the heart of european democracy.
mr president, the revision of these two key issues of energy legislation has taken five long years to get to this vote and unfortunately a lot has been lost by parliament in the face of a relentless council. there is no doubt about it that this deal is far weaker than anything we would have envisaged, and i am disappointed by the council’s attitude. indirect land-use changes should have been accounted for, instead of just reported on, and advanced biofuel should have had a stronger target. whilst i would also have preferred to see a much lower cap on first generation biofuels, the 7% limit which has been agreed upon will see their growth curbed which is good news for the environment, for biodiversity and for hunger in the developing world. after five years of long and difficult negotiations, i am sure many are ready to put this issue to bed, but if we are truly going to commit to a feature of sustainable transport in the european union, it can only be just the beginning.
the uachtaráin, the atthas or the parliamentary assemblies are the focal points on this important subject. i must say that since our good commissioner arias cañete came into office he has been at pains to point out the need to create an energy union by first of all decreasing our dependence on imported fossil fuels and increasing our resources within the european union and of course one area is that of biofuels. particularly in transport we have to say that emissions reductions are not quick or good enough and with a growing economy we are going to see far more trucks and trucks and cars on the roads; therefore this has to be addressed. i think, as my colleagues in the epp group have pointed out, this is a good compromise because we are not throwing the baby out with the bathwater by discriminating against first-generation biofuels, but we are certainly sending a signal that advanced biofuels are the way to go, and i would totally agree with that. also we will reduce iluc (indirect land use change) and particularly give legal certainty and confidence to investors that this is what they need to do if they want to be at the races in the years to come. in particular, i would like to say, i have met many people recently, investors and so forth, who see that we have had a wasted opportunity in not using waste in the past, but this now will change into the future. that will be good for the environment, co2 emissions and for the energy union.
madam president, i agree with the concept of introducing taxes to reduce the consumption of plastic bags. it has been introduced in my member state, the republic of ireland, to great effect. however, the other side of the argument must also be looked at. what has it driven us to use? it has driven us to use more paper bags rather than go down the road of using reusable bags, and it is important to point out that paper production causes 70 % more air pollution. it consumes more energy, it consumes more water, and it is more inefficient in recycling. i found it very interesting earlier to hear one mep say that we need to come up with or invent an alternative. well i have news for you. my grandmother already knew of this alternative, it was called a hemp twine bag. i think she used about three of them in the 70 years of her life. we already have invented it. do not reinvent the wheel. on the point that, if member states are not forced to implement something they will not do it, the way i feel about it is this: if you force member states to do something they will not do it right. you do something because you want to do it. leave it up to the member states. we are proof of that.
the uachtaráin, like laws in the feisirí eile fáiltím roimh in the moltaí within. however, we are doing something about the pollution and the co2 emissions from industrial transport that are already about 4% of the ocean. if we do anything about it, it will go up to 50% in a few years; but if we do anything about it, it can be reduced by at least 50%. therefore, caithfimid an t-eolas to collect first go háirithe faoi in the long a thagann isteach i gcalafoirt na heorpa. i said, this is my first choice in august, i said to the commissioner of the areas of concern, "well, you can do it with a lot of backing from industry, but you can't do it with any backing from them". i'm not afraid to give you a chance to meet some great people in the future.
in writing. ‒ this was a consent report which will provide member states with the requisite authority to sign the international convention, which sets minimum standards on training, competence and fitness for the personnel of large fishing vessels, aimed at improving safety. it is for these reasons that i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ this was a consent report which will provide member states with the requisite authority to sign the international convention, which sets minimum standards on training, competence and fitness for the personnel of large fishing vessels, aimed at improving safety. it is for these reasons that i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ i enthusiastically support this convention. that 24 000 lives are lost each year during fishing activities is an alarming statistic and one that highlights how hazardous a profession it is. it is important that personnel sailing on fishing vessels are qualified and fit for the job to ensure their own safety and to ensure that threats to the marine environment are minimised. the international convention on standards of training, certification and watchkeeping for fishing vessel personnel seeks to ensure these objectives and i hope that this decision will encourage member states to ratify it.
i wrote it. ‒ the report also calls on the member states and the international organisation for the safety of life at sea to establish training standards, skills and resources for those working in marine fisheries to improve safety. i am not voting for this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report. it needs to be stated for clarification that the increase does not provide new money – instead it is money being moved from 2014 to 2015 as various programmes were not adopted by the end of 2014. it was necessary to vote in favour of this report in order to enable this technical change.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, which provides for the transfer of unused commitment appropriations of eur 21.1 billion from 2014 to subsequent years, including eur 16.5 billion to the 2015 budget. this revision of the multiannual financial framework (mff) and the adoption of draft amending budget no 2 are necessary in order to implement the 300 eu programmes for which the 2014 allocation has not been used, due to the late agreement on the 2014-2020 mff. this revision concerns all eu member states. at the end of last year, only 39% of programmes had been adopted, and so i welcome this transfer of appropriations, which allows the 300 programmes that were postponed to be adopted.
mr president, i supported the alde amendment on the ecall in-vehicle system. i think this is an example of where we try to balance individual rights with societal benefits, where we protect individual data but recognise how data-sharing can, in the case of the ecall system, save lives, reduce the seriousness of injury, facilitate the work of rescuers and fire-fighters, and indeed save money. but in this context i support the amendment which requested that manufacturers ensure that ecall users can easily deactivate the ecall system manually in cars. this, i believe, will help to ensure a balance between the right to privacy and the possibility to save lives or reduce injury. i do recognise that certain safeguards have been put in place. for example, there can be no tracking of any call-equipped vehicle before an accident occurs; in the internal memory of the system, data are automatically and continuously removed; and data-gathering by emergency centres must not be transferred to third parties without explicit consent. i am pleased that the alde group played an important role in ensuring these protections.
i'd like to thank my group for their support in the fight against aids. of course, there is a huge amount of money being spent on education in europe every year - 28 000 people get it; millions go to the poor; and that is up to eur 130 billion a year. dar of course is uafásach in the figure of the inferno. i tell you, a great many people have died in the past year; a great many have died since. therefore, no one can be sure that the figure is the one that is to be welcomed. i'm not going to do that. it says, at least, that they will be in a position to reach a 40% or 50% reduction in the number of people who are currently in prison and that they will be able to do so without any further legislation.
in writing. ‒ from march 2018, this new regulation will make sure that car manufacturers will equip vehicles with a public and free ʽ112-based ecallʼ system. this is the first time that vehicles will have full eu-wide coverage in all member states. it is estimated that about 2 500 lives could be saved every year in europe as a result of implementing this new regulation. furthermore, the severity of injuries will be considerably reduced in tens of thousands of cases. of course, the issue of data protection was treated very seriously and we have ensured that vehicles equipped with 112 public ecall are not traceable and are not subject to any constant tracking and that the minimum set of data sent by the in-vehicle ecall system includes the minimum information required for the appropriate handling of emergency calls.
in writing. ‒ at a time when many claim that more europe is unnecessary, the legislation on ecall is a good example of europe doing more, being so much more effective in an area as important as reducing mortality rates and better assisting victims of road accidents – ʽbetter integration, better regulationʼ, explained carlos coelho. all vehicles produced from 2018 will be required to install a device which is activated automatically in the event of a violent crash through sensors incorporated into the vehicle that connect to the appropriate emergency call centre by sending specific details about the accident.
in writing. ‒ i voted for this proposal as it introduces in all vehicles in the eu the minimum functionalities needed to ensure appropriate handling of emergency calls by the emergency response services. action is needed at eu level in order to guarantee interoperability and continuity of the service throughout europe.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this recommendation, which would require all new car models to be equipped with ecall technology from 31 march 2018. it is expected that this technology could save 2 500 lives a year in europe and reduce the gravity of injuries through the earlier arrival of assistance. road accidents across the eu caused 28 000 deaths and left 1.5 million injured in 2012, and cause an economic burden of eur 130 billion every year. in 2014 alone, 196 people lost their lives on irish roads, the second consecutive year in which there was a rise in irish road fatalities. this new technology could speed up emergency response times by 40% in urban areas and 50% in the countryside, benefiting all irish and eu citizens.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report as the ecall devices fitted in new car models and light vans can automatically alert emergency service in the event of an accident. these devices are capable of cutting traffic deaths by 10%.
mr president, i supported the new form of the directive on the quality of fuels and the directive on the use of energy from renewable sources because i believe, and the debate that has taken place here shows, that in the future we must give greater support to advanced biofuels and move away from supporting traditional biofuels whose production is so ecologically demanding that their environmental benefits are then put into perspective. i am glad that the european union is changing the direction of its policy in this way, which is a very good and important signal for me. i mean, we have a similar debate in the czech republic, on the floor of the czech parliament, about how to promote renewable energy. i'm a little sad that in the czech republic the topic of modern and new biofuels is not so perceived. so i hope that today's vote in the european parliament will be an impetus for the czech government to support more advanced biofuels in the future, not the old ones that some politicians in the czech republic are getting economic benefits from.
mr president, i supported the final agreement on the fuel quality directive and renewable energy directive but it is far from ideal. still, it represents progress. in this agreement i believe we are addressing the negative side effects of the eu’s support policies for biofuels and we are also trying to ensure that publicly subsidised biofuels achieve real greenhouse gas savings. i believe that we are also promoting the development of advanced biofuels. while the european parliament did not achieve many of its key objectives, nonetheless the compromise will ensure a cap on first generation biofuels of 7%, with member states having the possibility to set lower limits. indirect land use change (iluc) factors will be reported by fuel suppliers and by the commission and in its review the commission will consider including iluc emission factors in the maximum emission levels for biofuels in the future. furthermore, energy crops will in principle be included in the 7% cap. as i said, this proposal is not as ambitious as we would have liked but it is an improvement.
i think my irish colleague, marian harkin, gave a very good summary of these proposals, pointing out the benefits, particularly in relation to the cap on first generation biofuels, the iluc (indirect land use change) factor and of course the promotion of second-generation or advanced biofuels. that is very important because this gives a legal certainty to investors which is vital if we want to develop particularly advanced biofuels into the future. i think it also fits in well with the whole concept of an energy union in europe which has been promoted by our commissioner arias cañete. no doubt about it, biofuels have an important role to play and i think this is encouraging that and making sure that we have legal certainty regarding it into the future.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the text which was the outcome of the recent negotiations between the council, the commission and parliament. the eu biofuels policy needs serious reform and whilst i welcome the increased certainty this long-awaited agreement will bring, the overall package was extremely weak and i was very disappointed with several aspects of the final text. environmentalists and biofuel producers alike have both expressed their discontent with the advanced biofuels target – not only is it too low to stimulate real growth in this sector but the council pushed for, and won, the right to not even make the target mandatory. furthermore, one of the most contentious aspects of this report, indirect land use change (iluc) factors, will be reported on but, unfortunately, not accounted for. this agreement must now be seen as a stepping stone and not the end of moving towards sustainable transport in europe.
in writing. ‒ the need to further reduce carbon emissions, and curb the harmful effects of land use change arising from the cultivation of crops for fuel, prompted us to change the current eu policy. our biofuels policy was badly outdated and broken. the human and environmental side effects of this route are increasingly apparent and we had to do something to address this. land and food price speculation are exacerbated in the process. eu governments at council level have shown an abysmal lack of willingness to think in our long-term interest and decided to concede as little room for reform as possible. we now have a 7% cap on the use of ‘old-school’, land-intensive biofuels, even if, like many colleagues involved in this issue, i wanted a much stricter cap on the share of conventional biofuels in the overall mix, preferably at 5%. we also pushed for sounder definitions and hierarchies of what qualifies as waste as source materials for more advanced biofuels exploiting by-products of other agricultural activities. there is also progress on the recognition of the land rights of indigenous people, a critical overseas development and human rights aspect our policies in this area must not ignore.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this directive as i believe parliament has legislated for a balanced and reasonable cap on the amount of crop-based biofuels that count towards the eu’s 10% renewable energy targets.
in writing. ‒ this is a good compromise and i am pleased to see that an agreement was reached with the council on a reform of biofuels policy. this is a positive step towards promoting advanced biofuels which will play a key role in decreasing the co2 emissions in our transport sector. this agreement will bring much needed improved regulatory certainty to the biofuels industry and in doing so make it more attractive to investment, creating more jobs and growth, especially in the euʼs rural areas.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this technical report as moving towards advanced biofuels is an important step in reducing greenhouse gas emissions arising from biofuel crops.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the text which was the outcome of the recent negotiations between the council, the commission and parliament. the eu biofuels policy needs serious reform and whilst i welcome the increased certainty this long-awaited agreement will bring, the overall package was extremely weak and i was very disappointed with several aspects of the final text. environmentalists and biofuel producers alike have both expressed their discontent with the advanced biofuels target – not only is it too low to stimulate real growth in this sector but the council pushed for, and won, the right to not even make the target mandatory. furthermore, one of the most contentious aspects of this report, indirect land use change (iluc) factors, will be reported on but unfortunately, not accounted for. this agreement must now be seen as a stepping stone and not the end of moving towards sustainable transport in europe.
mr president, today i was delighted that we in this parliament are responding to the concerns of eu citizens. just recently in a eurobarometer survey, 92% of citizens expressed concerns and asked to reduce single-use plastic bags. i come from a member state that was a trailblazer in this, in that we managed a 90% reduction of plastic bag usage by the introduction of a charge for a plastic bag. supermarkets and shops can no longer give out free plastic bags. there is a charge of 22 cents per bag. this is a substantial amount and what it does is to make people think and to ensure that most of the time, in fact 90% of the time, consumers will either reuse bags or buy recyclable bags that can be used many times. i believe that the proposal today is flexible enough in that it gives member states a choice: either to have a binding reduction target, or a mandate to improve composting standards for plastic bags, along with other measures.
the president, once again voted with my group in the plenary session on august 4th. we're going to have to make sure that we know what's important and that we can do something about it. is maith an rud is go bhfuil spriocanna ann, agus tá na spriocanna réadach agus is dóigh liom gur féidir iad a bhaint amach. what is the meaning of this? rud eile: when people are paid to use the rud, they are allowed to abuse it. for example, in denmark and other countries in southern europe, people are said to use only 4 million plastic bags per year. marian harkin was born a few minutes after that, and her father introduced the payment to the playset in 2002 15 cents a bag, they say it's 22 cents now and that's a reduction in the amount of money from 328 cents a day to 21 cents a day. i'm going to be a chaomhnu.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report. plastic bags are not biodegradable and can take between 400 and 1 000 years to break down in the environment. it is estimated that 1 million plastic bags are used every minute globally, which makes it no surprise that plastic waste is causing some serious impacts on the world’s oceans. plastic never completely deteriorates – it breaks down into ever smaller pieces. with up to 12 000 000 tons of plastic entering the world’s oceans every year it is worrying but inevitable that the fish we eat will have ingested some of it. in ireland, both north and south, the plastic bag charges have a proven record. indeed, ireland was the first country in the world to introduce such a levy and currently charges 22 cents per bag. the number of bags used per inhabitant fell from 328 per year to just 21, already well below the target of 90 in this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report. this report sought to look for solutions as to how to reduce the consumption of lightweight plastic carrier bags. the excessive consumption of plastic bags in the eu is a matter of serious concern and as plastic bags tend to be used on a once-off basis, this results in unnecessary and preventable waste. every year nearly 100 billion plastic bags are used and it is projected that this figure will grow to 111 billion plastic bags by 2020 if no action is taken. for these reasons, i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ since 2002, ireland has had a levy on plastic bags. this has brought about a significant effect on the use of plastic bags, decreasing from 328 bags per capita to 21 bags overnight. however, not all eu member states have put those types of measures into place. the majority of meps rightly saw the need for binding measures at eu level so as to tackle serious damage caused by plastics to the environment and biodiversity. ninety-two per cent of the eu population agrees with reducing the use of plastic bags; furthermore, we believe that restricting the use at eu level will be a quick and sustainable way of reducing the problem.
in writing. ‒ plastic bags used by consumers to carry food products (between 15 and 50 microns in thickness), targeted by the directive, pose a greater environmental risk than thicker ones. due to irresponsible consumer habits, 90% of these bags are thrown away after first usage, amounting to 8 billion bags turning into waste every year. decomposition of plastic bags can take hundreds of years, making accumulation a major problem. plastics constitute a large part of marine debris, especially the single-use items: packaging, bags, bottles. even those plastics which are degradable do not entirely disappear into nature. after a certain time, they turn into microscopic particles, microplastics, which are harmful to the environment and especially to marine ecosystems.
in writing. ‒ i voted for this report as it encourages the reduction of the number of plastic bags in circulation throughout europe. plastic bags are harmful to the environment and to animals and marine life.
in writing. ‒ the current eu-wide consumption of lightweight plastic bags is having a significant detrimental impact on our environment. this proposal seeks to reduce this unsustainable consumption from an eu average of 198 bags per capita to 90 in each member state by 2020. this proposed change to the packaging and packaging waste directive will enable member states to avail of a broader range of instruments, such as levies or marketing restrictions, to achieve this. ireland’s plastic bag levy, introduced in 2002, has proven that these measures can have instant positive effect – plastic bag consumption in ireland reduced immediately from 328 per capita to 21. the proven success of these measures means the targets set out in this proposal are very achievable and it therefore has my full support.
in writing. ‒ i supported this report to reduce the use of lightweight plastic bags. in the eu billions of these bags end up directly in water bodies and aquatic ecosystems every year as untreated waste. ireland leads the eu in this area of plastic bag reduction.
i wrote it. - chaith me vote and bhfabhar in that report. the plays in the bhithmhillte agus glacann are 400 to 1 000 years old and have been written in their environment. it's estimated that one million plastic bags are used every minute in the world. there is no such thing as a sea without a sea that has been damaged by the dramatic plasticity of the deep sea. i'm not a full-blown phlaisteach, i'm a little bit of a bpiosaí small. it has 120 000 tonnes of plastic in its holdings every year and it is a scandalous idea to have a sea without plastic in the holdings. in éirinn, sa tuaisceart agus sa deisceart, it is clear that there was a great impact on the air tiles in the plaisteacha bag. but it was the first country to put a tax on this in force and it currently costs 22 cents per bag. the number of people using plastic bags in the eu rose to 328 in the year to 21 august, well below the target of 90 set in the report.
mr president, this is a good proposal and one where the eu is leading the field. our goal is an international agreement to ensure a level playing field for all. four per cent of all greenhouse gases come from the maritime sector, and as world trade grows, that percentage will rise. the maritime sector is the only area not covered by agreements or regulations in regard to co2 reductions. therefore it is time to act. we need a supranational framework: that is our aim. but we must make a start, and this is the start, where all vessels entering european ports will have to monitor the verified amounts of co2 emitted by their large ships on voyages to, from and between the eu ports. they will also have to report the amounts. other information will also be required, for example data to determine the ship’s energy efficiency. it is also important that this proposal can be implemented without major costs being involved.
the president has also ordered the adoption of a law on the proposal that we should do something about the co2 emissions from industrial transport. is there anything to do now, because the morning after we were talking about the debate, there's 4% of the co2 emissions coming from the ocean. in particular, in the future, we will be able to monitor the long-term developments in europe and thereafter we will probably be able to have some international cooperation in the future. therefore, once again, this is a good way of showing that the laws of the european parliament are applicable to citizens.
in writing. ‒ this report was concerned with emissions from the maritime transport sector which contribute to both air pollution and climate change. it has not been possible to calculate the precise amount of co2 and other ghg emissions of eu-related maritime transport due to the lack of monitoring and reporting of such emissions. the commission proposed an integrated measurement, reporting and verification (mrv) system covering emissions of air pollutants and ghg with the aim of providing improved information on the co-benefits and trade-offs on related policies in europe. in this regard, my group, gue/ngl, tabled several amendments in order to develop more details on the mrv data and to include not only co2 emissions in the mrv system but to also extend the monitoring system to other emissions that are of concern in the main eu harbour cities. this key provision was included in the report. it was for these reasons that i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ as the international maritime shipping regulation is the only regulation which is not included in the eu’s co2-reduction emission scheme, i support this recommendation which aims to provide a basis for monitoring, reporting and verification (mrv) of large ships (over 5 000 gross tonnes) using eu ports and their co2 emissions. as this proposal would allow for the creation of an eu-wide data collection system, a necessary tool for a proper co2 emission scheme to be in place, thus i fully support it.
in writing. ‒ this regulation was a re-consultation on the outcome after trilogue negotiations in their second reading. the proposal approves the council position after the consideration of the reasoned opinions of the opposed member states in the council and the opinion of the european central bank. the file was concerned with providing independent, objective and impartial statistics. this is extremely important as the manipulation of statistics provides a very distorted view of economic performance and thus recovery. it was for these reasons that i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report as this amendment to the existing eu regulation on statistics strengthens the role and independence of national statistical institutes in member states as well as that of eurostat. we need to bring in increased scrutiny of official statistics following the economic crisis and also ensure the quality and objectivity of official statistics.
in writing. ‒ i am very much in favour of this proposal which seeks to revise the legal framework for the collection, production and dissemination of european statistics. these changes aim to strengthen the professional independence of national statistical authorities, and that of eurostat, and their ability to meet the expected quality standards. ireland already has a very strong legislative foundation for statistics; however this proposal will further strengthen the ability of the central statistics office, which currently produces 90% of all european statistics for the irish state, to meet quality standards. such efforts will ensure increased confidence in statistics and it therefore has my full support.
mr president, i believe that the wałęsa report concerning the commission proposals for a baltic multiannual plan for the stocks of cod, herring and sprat is a step forward. in the last term, parliament was responsible for shaping an improved common fisheries policy and i would like to commend my colleague, chris davies, who is no longer with us, for the significant role that he played in shaping the improved common fisheries policy. but now i believe our role in this parliament is to ensure the effective implementation of the reforms that we agreed. i am particularly pleased that amendment 30, which asks that the most recent scientific advice be taken into account, was adopted. i also agree with the target fishing mortality range, which is calibrated from zero to fmsy, which is the fishing mortality consistent with achieving maximum sustainable yield. i was disappointed that amendments 64 and 55 were narrowly defeated, which would have protected juveniles and also spawning fish and would also have minimised the incidental capture of seabirds and marine animals.
in writing. ‒ i abstained on this legislative resolution as, while there were a number of positive improvements to the commission proposal, they were not nearly robust enough to prevent the destruction of the baltic ecosystem.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report as a multispecies approach is the most effective way to ensure the balanced and sustainable exploitation of baltic fish stocks, while protecting the livelihood of fishermen. this multiannual plan for the baltic sea will ensure that management measures reflect the most up-to-date scientific advice to keep stock sizes within safe biological limits and will take into account the interaction between different species and the ecological needs.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report as a multispecies approach is the most effective way to ensure balanced and sustainable exploitation of baltic fish stocks, while protecting the livelihood of fishermen. this multiannual plan for the baltic sea will ensure that management measures reflect the most up-to-date scientific advice to keep stock sizes within safe biological limits and will take into account the interaction between different species and the ecological needs.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report as a multispecies approach is the most effective way to ensure the balanced and sustainable exploitation of baltic fish stocks, while protecting the livelihood of fishermen. this multiannual plan for the baltic sea will ensure that management measures reflect the most up-to-date scientific advice to keep stock sizes within safe biological limits and will take into account the interaction between different species and ecological needs.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report as a multispecies approach is the most effective way to ensure the balanced and sustainable exploitation of baltic fish stocks, while protecting the livelihood of fishermen. this multiannual plan for the baltic sea will ensure that management measures reflect the most up-to-date scientific advice to keep stock sizes within safe biological limits and will take into account the interaction between different species and ecological needs.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this legislative resolution which concerned landing obligations for fishermen. although the landing obligations alongside the baltic multiannual plan can be of potential environmental benefit, it is still of paramount importance not to neglect the socioeconomic factors and possible negative impact this will have on small fishermen. i also have serious concerns about any european blanket implementation of intrusive monitoring of fishermen; the commission’s agenda, for example, is the introduction of a system where remote electronic monitoring is forced upon small fishermen. this approach needs to be revised as it operates under a presumption of guilt. my party, sinn féin, highlighted that most small fishermen will struggle to adapt to such changes if they are blindly enforced without regard for their welfare. any inevitable implementation of landing obligations must be done gradually to accommodate fishermen. the landing obligations are very comprehensive and so our fishermen must be given all the supports and clarification they need.
in writing. ‒ i am pleased to support this agreement on the landing obligation for fisheries so that applicable regulations are modified to comply. additionally, it is a positive step that the commission will publish reports every year on the implementation of the obligation to land as it is vital to see the impact that such an obligation will have on both fishermen and national authorities. i am also pleased to see that the agreement has included good controls to ensure that all parties comply with the landing obligation, and also to prevent parallel activities devoted to catching organisms below the minimum conservation reference size from developing.
in writing. ‒ this report is a technical file. in a nutshell it is a formalistic procedural matter which acknowledges the accession of croatia to the eu and does not change the content of the agreement as such. therefore, i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ i am in favour of the proposed protocol which calls for croatia to be incorporated as a party to the partnership and cooperation agreement between the eu and russia, taking into consideration croatia’s accession to the eu in 2013.
i wrote it. the report also highlights the need for more investment in education, for example, there was no strong support for the bologna process, which actually means funding education, as well as the need for universities to be involved in education bodies. mar sin, chaith me vote against the report within. i was not prepared to accept the tender without a first place vote and i was not prepared to accept the tender without a second place vote. sa rún sin, chuir sí béim faoi leith ar an dóigh gur chóir freagracht i gcúrsaí oideachais to be ag in ballstáit, gur chóir na héagsúlachtaí teagaisc ar fud fad na heorpa (éagsúlachtaí teanga san áireamh) a chaomhnú agus gur chóir don oideachas to be saor, ar fáil go poiblí agus furasta teacht air do gach dhuine uile. the aim of the directive is to ensure that the quality of education is not compromised by the lack of a uniform standard of education in the member states, and that the quality of education is not compromised by the lack of a uniform standard of education in the member states.
i wrote it. the report also highlights the need for more investment in education, for example, there was no strong support for the bologna process, which actually means funding education, as well as the need for universities to be involved in education bodies. mar sin, chaith me vote against the report within. i was not prepared to accept the tender without a first place vote and i was not prepared to accept the tender without a second place vote. the aim is to ensure that education is free, available to the public and easily accessible to all citizens.
in writing. ‒ i supported this report on the follow up of the implementation of the bologna process. in particular, i support paragraph 21 which stresses the role of the stem subjects, science, technology, engineering and mathematics for their importance for the employability of some. it is crucial that we include the number of female students taking stem subjects as woman are disproportionately under-represented in engineering, technology and the science sectors. the bologna process can also be used to measure the skills mismatch and provide useful information to policy makers. i am also very supportive of the need to validate and recognise learning achieved in the non-formal and informal ways.
in writing. ‒ the bologna process has had a major impact on higher education across europe. since the bologna declaration in 1999 there has been significant progress towards the harmonisation of higher education structures, culminating in the european higher education area (ehea), established in 2010. irish students have benefited greatly from the mobility and enhanced employability offered by the ehea, as well as from the introduction of quality guidelines, with the irish higher education quality network being established in 2003. i fully support the assertion of this report: that the proper implementation of quality assurance standards across the ehea must be its next key goal. strengthening our education system by providing students with high-quality mentoring, learning outcomes and resources is key to europe’s further growth and development and is central to our 2020 goals. i therefore voted in favour of this report.
i wrote it. ‒ the report was not particularly well supported because it was produced under the bologna process, which actually means funding education, and the costs of schools and the costs of the bodies of the boird srl. mar sin, chaith me vote against the report within. i put the offer in the council with a start in place, but the bad weather didn't take the law into an offer without it. i am therefore pleased that education should be free, available to the public and easily accessible to all citizens.
in writing. ‒ this own-initiative report follows a communication from the commission entitled ʽeuropean film in the digital era – bridging cultural diversity and competitivenessʼ from february 2014. most of its preliminary remarks and the analysis is good. it notes that europe’s film industry is diverse and creative but that most european films do not reach all their potential audience in europe and even less so in the global market. it also proposes ways to address the challenges related to the digital shift, an opportunity for cultural diversity and film heritage preservation. it was for these reasons that i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ in europe, we have always had a prominent film heritage, which boasts our cultural diversity on screen. in recent times we have seen how technology is moving incredibly fast and we believe that support measures are needed in order to keep up with the constant innovation in this digital era. we are confident that the creation of growth and jobs that can also benefit other sectors of the economy, such as that of the film industry and my dublin constituency, is a good example of this, proving that europe can compete at a global level.
in writing. ‒ i fully support this report, drafted by parliament’s committee on culture and education. the report aims to support european cinema by improving its promotion, distribution and competitiveness through cross-border distribution, audience development, media literacy, innovation in distribution methods, and funding issues. however cinema is not just about profits, it is about cultural exports and diversity too, and this report also addresses these issues. european films account for more than 60% of releases in the eu but represent only one third of ticket sales, so i am in favour of this resolution and its goal to increase the audience for european films. it is important also that the report looks at copyright and licensing as essential issues for digital film distribution throughout the eu.
in writing. ‒ this report deals with the new eu strategy for forests and the forest-based sector. there were a number of positive aspects to this report. however, i abstained on this vote because of environmental concerns, especially in the context of bio-energy. moreover, there was no reflection in the report of concerns in relation to biodiversity problems, the multifunctional nature of forests, the creation of specific support measures to prevent and fight fires enabling early intervention or avoiding soil erosion and the recovery of vegetation cover. for these reasons i abstained in the vote.
in writing. ‒ this report deals with the new eu strategy for forests and the forest-based sector. there were a number of positive aspects to this report. however, i abstained on this vote because of environmental concerns, especially in the context of bio-energy. moreover, there was no reflection in the report of concerns in relation to biodiversity problems, the multifunctional nature of forests, the creation of specific support measures to prevent and fight fires enabling early intervention or avoiding soil erosion and the recovery of vegetation cover. for these reasons i abstained in the vote.
in writing. ‒ i supported this strategy because it identifies many of the key principles needed to strengthen sustainable forest management. it also looks at job-creation potential of the forestry sector as well as the opportunities to improve competitiveness. forests have a multifunctional role and in the report we call for better coordination by eu bodies, a review of the effectiveness of the timber directive, active forest management and the sustainable resource-efficient use of timber. given the different types of forest and forest ownership across the eu, practical management of forests has to be left up to the individual member states while taking the forest strategy into account.
in writing. ‒ i am pleased to support an eu forest strategy based on the principles of sustainable and multifunctional forest management, global forest responsibility and efficient use of forest resources. developing forests sustainably brings opportunities for job creation and possibilities for additional income sources for landowners. sustainable forest management principles ensure our resources are managed efficiently and economically. sustainably increasing our forest area goes a long way towards maintaining a clean and healthy environment.
in writing. ‒ i supported this report as a new eu forest strategy is needed to deal with cross-border challenges such as forest fires, climate change or invasive alien species.
in writing. ‒ this report deals with the new eu strategy for forests and the forest-based sector. there were a number of positive aspects to this report. however, i abstained on this vote because of environmental concerns, especially in the context of bio-energy. moreover, there was no reflection in the report of concerns in relation to biodiversity problems, the multifunctional nature of forests, the creation of specific support measures to prevent and fight fires enabling early intervention or avoiding soil erosion and the recovery of vegetation cover. for these reasons i abstained in the vote.
the next item is the interim report by monica macovei, on behalf of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs, on the proposal for a council regulation on the establishment of the european public prosecutor’s office (com(2013)0534 – 2013/0255(app)) (a8—0055/2015).
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on wednesday, 29 april 2015. written statements (rule 162)
the next item is the debate on the commission statement on recent revelations on mass organised spying by nsa, and the implication of the bundesnachrichtendienst, against eu citizens, politicians and companies (2015/2676(rsp)).
the debate is closed.
the next item is the report by neena gill, on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs, on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on money market funds (com(2013)0615 – c7—0263/2013 – 2013/0306(cod)) (a8-0041/2015).
on behalf of the ppe group.– madam president, firstly can i congratulate neena gill for her work as rapporteur on this very important file, and i would also thank other shadow rapporteurs who worked with me on what has been a difficult and contentious file – not just during this mandate but also under the previous mandate. i think we have a workable compromise that we can now bring forward to the council in intense trilogue negotiations. i also think it was very important that in the compromise on this file, two distinct parts of this industry are reflected – the cnav and the vnav industries. it is crucially important for europe that we keep the eur 1 trillion mmf investment in europe at a time when we are trying to make sure that we have long-term investment in our companies and businesses, big and small, here within the european union. so that was crucial. it is also crucially important that we are behind the curve by comparison to the united states which has already regulated in this area. so we do need to get our act together, we do need to regulate, but we need to do it in a proportionate and a reasonable way to ensure that these funds remain within the euro system. in the lvnav proposal i think we have many new features, additional safeguards, daily and weekly liquidity requirements, regular reporting transparency, fees and gates. a totally new system, a transparent system is now put in place to deal with the systemic shock issues that commissioner hill spoke of. there is one outstanding issue and it concerns the review/sunset clause which i know has been the cause of some contention. in conclusion, i would be interested in hearing the views of commissioner hill as he responds to this debate as to the viability of a sunset clause for the new lvnav product. if we want the lvnav product to work, to sustain itself, to move forward, we do need to ensure that there is a review after a few years. i would be interested in his view on the sunset proposal contained within the current compromise and the commission’s position on this issue. congratulations again to neena gill for her work in this area.
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on employment and social affairs.– mr president, i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr czarnecki, for taking on board most of my suggestions in regard to the four agencies under our remit in the committee on employment and social affairs, namely: cedefop, eurofound, the european training foundation and eu-osha. while there are still some minor issues with regard to prevention and management of conflicts of interest, good progress has been made. in regard to internal audits, all recommendations that have been taken on board are either completed or on track. good progress is also being made with regard to the implementation of the commission’s approach on eu decentralised agencies and the related roadmap, which should help foster the performance culture referred to by mr caldeira. finally, i want to highlight the fact that the court of auditors report showed a slight decrease for estimated error rate in the area of employment and social affairs, down from 3.2% in 2012 to 3.1% in 2013, which is the second lowest among all policy areas. however, it is important to say that we expect these improvements to continue.
mr president, i would like to congratulate the rapporteur, the shadow rapporteurs and especially the commissioner for bringing this report to us so soon, in such a timely fashion, because it is important. it is very important for the young people of europe that they are to be supported and given the necessary training and education to gain employment. the fact that the commission is proposing to bring forward essential finance sends out a clear and strong message to member states that they must act and they must put structures in place to support young people. i am encouraged by the commissionerʼs words that he is going to closely monitor the progress and report to parliament on a regular basis on the impact of this funding, and indeed the youth employment initiative, because i think it is extremely important that the funding be spent in a valuable way, particularly on developing skills and giving education attainment where it is needed in the workplace. so often in our history we have educated people, young people and indeed not so young people, for careers with skills that are not needed in the workplace. i think that this is an extremely important point to focus on – necessary skills for today’s employment market.
member of the commission.– mr president, the right to freedom of expression is particularly important for journalists and other people working in the media. they must be free to criticise the state without fear of prosecution. this is an important feature of a democratic society. it may be permissible to restrict freedom of expression. however, such a restriction must be proportionate. in other words, the restriction must be no more than is necessary and appropriate and not excessive in the circumstances. there is no harmonised system in place in the european union for the protection of whistle-blowers but eu rules on whistle-blowing exist in some specific areas, as in eu competition law or in the new rules of the market abuse regulation addressing unlawful behaviour in the financial markets. these concern whistle-blowing to public authorities. where no applicable eu law exists it is up to the eu member states to regulate this issue in compliance with relevant national legislation within the framework of the rules of the european convention for the protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms.
on behalf of the alde group.– mr president, the parliamentary intergroup on integrity, transparency and organised crime will be launched in parliament tomorrow evening and i hope we can use this as a vehicle to campaign for a european directive in defence of whistle-blowers. the european ombudsman has asked us to change our culture, admit that bad things happen, and while she argues that whistle-blowers are not enough to keep fraud, corruption and mismanagement out of eu institutions, they do have a role to play, in that they sound the alarm. yet out of nine eu bodies, only two have responded adequately to the european ombudsman’s insistence that they have internal rules on whistle-blowing. only the commission and the european court of auditors have in place policies for taking whistle-blowers’ concerns seriously and protecting the individual. in regard to the protection of the luxleaks whistle-blowers, which is the topic we are discussing this evening, i waited to hear what the commissioner might say, but i heard nothing – except that where there is no appropriate eu law it is up to the member states. we know that, but i am wondering, has the commission nothing more to say on this issue? it is because of the luxleaks whistle-blowers that we have now set up the tax committee (special committee on tax rulings and other measures in nature or effect) in this parliament. at all times, but especially in times of crisis, citizens want to see equity in the tax system and transparency in the tax system and they want to know that their governments and, at an eu level cooperatively, that we are trying to ensure tax justice. as i said, we need a cultural change because otherwise wrongdoing in all sectors, at all levels, whether it is big, small or in-between, will go unchecked. in my view, one of the greatest deterrents to wrongdoing, fraud, embezzlement, whatever, is the fear of being caught, but if wrongdoers are safe in the knowledge that those who are in a position to whistle-blow will most likely keep quiet, then they are likely to continue with their actions. commissioner, we need to explore action at eu level. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8))
blue-card answer.– i am not sure i fully understood the question. it seemed to me that i was asked what we do about those who commit tax evasion and point the finger at other people as well. that was certainly the translation, and i am not quite sure what the relevance of the question is, but i mean that tax evasion is a crime and obviously the penalty must be paid. but i apologise to my colleague: i was not sure of the context in which he asked the question. if i knew that, i could perhaps give him a proper answer.
the uachtaráin, the atthas or the parliamentary assemblies are the focal points on this important subject. i suppose the word "whistle-blowers" comes from sport. the referee is the person who blows the whistle and, like the whistle-blowers, the referee is usually not loved but nevertheless probably respected and indeed necessary. the same applies here to whistle-blowers who act in the public interest. it is not a popular thing to do but often it takes great courage, particularly in exposing a wrongdoing in relation to tax avoidance and tax evasion. indeed in relation to tax avoidance some big multinationals have proven themselves very adept in that regard. anything that helps us save 1 trillion euros, which is what it's estimated that we are losing through these illegal methods annually, is something to be welcomed. the whistle-blower deserves every protection in that regard because without it we would not be able to deal with these terrible afflictions.
thank you mr kirkhope, we all join in the birthday greetings in the middle of a very tense and fraught debate. laugher helps, but it does not cure our problems, so we continue with the very serious debate and i give the floor now for one minute to mr michel.
we shall try and clarify the issue of speaking time and we will come back to you with clarification on that. i will announce at this point and give a warning that we will take no more blue cards. that is the ruling for now because the debate is quite tight on time.
mr president, first of all i want to thank the rapporteur ms morin-chartier for her efficient and timely handling of this report. parliament has tabled no amendments in an effort to speed up the process so that member states can access their share of these one billion euros in prefinancing that has been put on the table for the youth employment initiative. with youth unemployment still at an unacceptably high level in so many different member states, it is crucial that member states take all possible measures to fund the youth guarantee. unfortunately, the member states worst affected by youth unemployment are those that have the greatest difficulty in securing the co-funding. this is not new money, it is money that is already in the budget, but what we voted today was to give member states the possibility to move quickly and put programmes in place to give hope to those young people under 25 who are not in employment, education or training. finally, i just want to say i agree with some of the colleagues who say that we must ensure proper standards in traineeships and internships so that we do not take advantage of those desperately seeking employment.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which will enable ireland to access funding under the youth employment initiative by june this year. however, it must be noted that while i welcomed and engaged positively with this move, i did so with a series of reservations and concerns about the youth employment initiative scheme. as while in principle the youth employment initiative scheme is a very positive thing for young people, unless it is funded adequately it is another sad case of style over substance. notably, the international labour organisation (ilo) estimated the cost of setting up this scheme in the eurozone alone would cost €21 billion per year. and in a derisory token, the commission has only committed to €6 billion for the youth employment initiative in total. this falls pitifully short of what the international labour organisation (ilo) recommended and the allocation of perfunctory funding such as this is insulting towards our youth. an economic recovery cannot happen in ireland or indeed the eu without a focused and authentic emphasis on young people. this requires both the political will and ambition to properly implement it.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because it is crucial that we boost our funding to support youth employment in as many ways as possible. the number of young people unemployed in europe is at a worrying level and the eu has to use every mechanism available to direct funds to support youth employment.
in writing. ‒ i am very much in favour of this report which support's the european commission's proposal allowing for pre-funding to be made available to member states. integration of our youth into the labour market is essential for their professional development and the growth of our economy. the cross-party support for this report goes to show how important all parties consider youth unemployment and i am happy that we have a unified report to present to the commission which will subsequently release 1 billion euro already set aside for yei.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report as it will provide support to young people not in employment, education or training (neets) in the most affected regions and contribute to the integration of young people into the labour market.
in writing. ‒ the proposal is concerned with repealing the council regulation (eec) no 3030/93 in order to promote legal certainty. as the purpose of this regulation is to repeal an ineffective regulation, i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ i support the report calling on the repeal for important of textile products. we need to strengthen our trading legal certainty and contribute to the growth of our exports-import market. taking into consideration the current changes in regulations and mechanisms with countries such as russia, serbia and china, repeal of the regulation is supported.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report. this vote was merely concerned with technical matters and it was not connected to the content but was instead concerned with codification. codification of legal texts is an important tool as it leads to greater legal certainty and clarity. this is important as if you do not codify the text the former several amended versions of the texts stay. codification, is, in a nutshell a simplification. any proposal that provides greater legal clarity and transparency should be welcomed as it's the complex nature of such texts which frequently leads to unnecessary legal challenges often at the taxpayers' expense.
in writing. ‒ i support this report which adopts the parliament's position on the 1st reading and ensures a straightforward codification of the existing texts without any change in their substance.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report. i voted in favour of this report. this vote was merely concerned with technical matters and it was not connected to the content but was instead concerned with codification. codification of legal texts is an important tool as it leads to greater legal certainty and clarity. this is important as if you do not codify the text the former several amended versions of the texts stay. codification, is, in a nutshell a simplification. any proposal that provides greater legal clarity and transparency should be welcomed as it's the complex nature of such texts which frequently leads to unnecessary legal challenges often at the taxpayers' expense.
in writing. ‒ i support this report which adopts the parliament's position on the 1st reading and ensures a straightforward codification of the existing texts without any change in their substance.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report. i voted in favour of this report. this vote was merely concerned with technical matters and it was not connected to the content but was instead concerned with codification. codification of legal texts is an important tool as it leads to greater legal certainty and clarity. this is important as if you do not codify the text the former several amended versions of the texts stay. codification, is, in a nutshell a simplification. any proposal that provides greater legal clarity and transparency should be welcomed as it's the complex nature of such texts which frequently leads to unnecessary legal challenges often at the taxpayers' expense.
in writing. ‒ i support this report which adopts the parliament's position on the 1st reading and ensures a straightforward codification of the existing texts without any change in their substance.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report. i voted in favour of this report. this vote was merely concerned with technical matters and it was not connected to the content but was instead concerned with codification. codification of legal texts is an important tool as it leads to greater legal certainty and clarity. this is important as if you do not codify the text the former several amended versions of the texts stay. codification, is, in a nutshell a simplification. any proposal that provides greater legal clarity and transparency should be welcomed as it's the complex nature of such texts which frequently leads to unnecessary legal challenges often at the taxpayers' expense.
in writing. ‒ i support this report which adopts the parliament's position on the 1st reading and ensures a straightforward codification of the existing texts without any change in their substance.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report. it is important to note in the context of this report that the vote was merely based on codification and was not concerned with the actual application of article 108 tfeu. at this stage it is not the substance of the provisions which is being voted on. it instead concerns codification. codification of legal texts is an important tool as it leads to greater legal certainty and clarity. this is important as if you do not codify the text the former several amended versions of the texts stay. codification, is, in a nutshell a simplification. any proposal that provides greater legal clarity and transparency should be welcomed as it's the complex nature of such texts which frequently leads to unnecessary legal challenges often at the taxpayers' expense.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report. it is important to note in the context of this report that the vote was merely based on codification and was not concerned with the actual application of articles 107 and 108 tfeu. at this stage it is not the substance of the provisions which is being voted on. it instead concerns codification. codification of legal texts is an important tool as it leads to greater legal certainty and clarity. this is important as if you do not codify the text the former several amended versions of the texts stay. codification, is, in a nutshell a simplification. any proposal that provides greater legal clarity and transparency should be welcomed as it's the complex nature of such texts which frequently leads to unnecessary legal challenges often at the taxpayers' expense.
in writing. ‒ i support this report which adopts the parliament's position on the 1st reading and ensures a straightforward codification of the existing texts without any change in their substance
i wrote it. - chaith and bhfabhar voted on this report. it is important to pay particular attention to the context in which this report is based on the call made in articles 107 and 108 tfeu. at that point there was no doubt in the provisions that a vote was to be cast. there are laws in every country. the most important tool is the code of legal texts, which should be more than just legal documents. the walls are covered with a code of the texts that are in the seanteacsanna leasaithe are made. it's as simple as that in the basics. you should welcome the fact that any law that imposes a legal obligation on a person is not binding, especially because the law that imposes it on the person is already binding.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report. it is important to note in the context of this report that the vote was merely based on codification and was not concerned with the actual application of article 108 tfeu. at this stage it is not the substance of the provisions which is being voted on. it instead concerns codification. codification of legal texts is an important tool as it leads to greater legal certainty and clarity. this is important as if you do not codify the text the former several amended versions of the texts stay. codification, is, in a nutshell a simplification. any proposal that provides greater legal clarity and transparency should be welcomed as it's the complex nature of such texts which frequently leads to unnecessary legal challenges often at the taxpayers' expense.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report. it is important to note in the context of this report that the vote was merely based on codification and was not concerned with the actual application of article 108 tfeu. at this stage it is not the substance of the provisions which is being voted on. it instead concerns codification. codification of legal texts is an important tool as it leads to greater legal certainty and clarity. this is important as if you do not codify the text the former several amended versions of the texts stay. codification, is, in a nutshell a simplification. any proposal that provides greater legal clarity and transparency should be welcomed as it's the complex nature of such texts which frequently leads to unnecessary legal challenges often at the taxpayers' expense.
in writing. ‒ i support this report which adopts the parliament's position on the 1st reading and ensures a straightforward codification of the existing texts without any change in their substance.
i wrote it. - chaith and bhfabhar voted on this report. it is important to pay particular attention to the context in which the report is based on the call made in article 108 tfeu. at that point there was no doubt in the provisions that a vote was to be cast. there are laws in every country. the most important tool is the code of legal texts, which should be more than just legal documents. the walls are covered with a code of the texts that are in the seanteacsanna leasaithe are made. it's as simple as that in the basics. you should welcome the fact that any law that imposes a legal obligation on a person is not binding, especially because the law that imposes it on the person is already binding.
in writing. ‒ this file refers to twenty six court of auditor’s special reports. these reports deal with how the funds have been implemented and is devoted to evaluate heterogeneous programmes. it was for these reasons that i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ i supported this report where i voted in favour of paragraph 43 of the original text which supported the auditing of the general expenditure allowance. as far as mep ranking and vote watch is concerned there is a tendency to focus on quantity rather than quality. no account is taken of the fact the written questions can cost up to €3,000 per question whereas the cost of an email or letter to the commission is negligible and may ensure the same result. every mep has a choice in regard to questions but the pressures of slipping down the mep ranking because you email or call instead of asking a written question makes it difficult to make the best decision in light of the cost to the taxpayer.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of postponing the discharge and in favour of the resolution. the main goal of the discharge procedure is to ensure that public funds are used in the best possible way, which is of course crucial. it was for these reasons that i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted against granting discharge and in favour of the resolution. the main goal of the discharge procedure is to ensure that public funds are used in the best possible way, which is of course crucial.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of granting discharge and in favour of the resolution. the main goal of the discharge procedure is to ensure that public funds are used in the best possible way, which is of course crucial. it was for these reasons that i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ i supported this report on the c.o.a. their annual accounts are audited independently by pwc. this is important as it ensures transparency and accountability to the process. i am very pleases that the c.o.a intends to improve the quality and quantity of the performance audit reports and believe that more reports should be devoted to the performance audits. i strongly support paragraph 14 where it asks that there be increased involvement of the relevant parliamentary committees as regards special reports.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of granting discharge and in favour of the resolution. the main goal of the discharge procedure is to ensure that public funds are used in the best possible way, which is of course crucial. it was for these reasons that i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ i supported this report and am very supportive of the work of the committee of regions. the court of auditors has concluded that spending and payments for 2013 for administrative and other expenditures were free from material error. it is pleasing to see that the c.o.r are congratulated for the consistent quality of their annual activity report and it is worth noting that i as an mep always pay attention to reports and opinions produced by the c.o.r-they are a valuable source of information and reflect the thinking of those who are elected at a regional rather than a national level. finally, i supported the amendment which called on the c.o.r to urgently comply with the conclusion of the civil service tribunal judgement of the 7th of may 2013 and to finalise the case.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of granting discharge and in favour of the resolution. the main goal of the discharge procedure is to ensure that public funds are used in the best possible way, which is of course crucial. it was for these reasons that i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted for this report and one of my reasons was that the court of auditors concluded that the payments for the year ended in 2013, for administrative and other expenditure of the institutions and bodies were free from material error. i am pleased to see that the ombudsman's annual management plan for 2013 includes key performance indicators. these kpi's will measure the office of the ombudsman's performance in achieving the objectives it had set for itself. there has been some progress in the number of cases closed in less than a year and this is positive as is the transparency policy advocated by the office of the ombudsman.
in writing. ‒ i was pleased to vote in favour of the report on the 2013 discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european union agencies in the areas of performance, financial management and control. as rapporteur for the opinion of the employment and social affairs committee i was pleased to see the rapporteur took the opinion into account in his final report. the work of the various agencies is important for informing the work of both the commission and parliament through supporting union policies and providing independent analysis to institutions on issues vital to citizens. it is also positive that agencies are trying to streamline collaboration where possible by exchanging information, knowledge and best practices with the support of an online communication tool. however it is important the agencies work towards better communication and dissemination of their work to citizens and in this regard i welcome the initiative of some of the agencies to introduce public consultations on some of their policies.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the 2013 discharge for cedefop. as rapporteur for the opinion of the employment and social affairs committee i was pleased to see the rapporteur took the opinion into account in his final report. as was acknowledged by the rapporteur the centre is to be commended for completing the corrective actions highlighted by the court of auditors in the previous year and also for the outcomes of the 2013 evaluation by the commission, which recognised it as a leading centre of expertise worldwide on qualifications frameworks and skills and that it had an important impact on strengthening the cooperation between vet policy stakeholders in europe. i look forward to working with the centre in the course of my work on the employment and social affairs committee.
in writing. ‒ i supported the report on the 2013 discharge for the european training foundation. once again i was pleased to see the rapporteur included the opinion of the employment and social affairs committee in the final report. i note the final budget of the foundation for 2013 had a decrease of 0.1% compared to the previous year. the etf is also to be commended on its 99% achievement rate of targets set out in its four work programmes and the progress made on vet reform through the torino process. it is also worth noting the etf´s approach to communicating its work to eu citizens in a clear and comprehensible way as they are its main target. it is vital that other agencies aim for this also.
in writing. ‒ i supported the report on the 2013 discharge for the european agency for safety and health at work. i welcome the agency´s achievements during the implementation period of the eu-osha strategy from 2009-2013, in particular the promotion of online interactive tools for small and medium-sized enterprises in the area of occupational safety and health management. while i note that the level of committed appropriations carried over to 2014 was high i appreciate the agency´s explanation that in part these carry-overs were caused by the planned year-end purchase of goods and services related to the agency’s move into its new premises which the agency moved to at the beginning of 2014 and which has resulted in a significant decrease in rent costs.
in writing. ‒ i supported this report on the discharge in respect of the implementation of the european union for the improvement of living and working conditions for the financial year 2013. there are some concerns in regard to the weakness in the area of the fixed assets registration and accounting but the report noted that the deficiencies identified were remedied by the full implementation of the new system and changes in the internal workflows is positive. it is also important to note that all of the recommendations made by the internal audit service (ias) in 2012 and in the previous years had been implemented and were closed by the ias in january 2014.
mr president, i voted for the amendment that deleted the sunset clause on the low volatility net asset value (lvnav) money market funds. this would see the lvnavs lapse five years after the entry into force of this regulation. instead, i fully support a review of the lvnavs. we need a balanced review clause because we do not need to predetermine the outcome of this review before it happens. i have to declare an interest here because of the 500 billion money market funds in the eu, 400 billion of those are domiciled in ireland. but it is not a vote on that basis alone. as i said, we need a proper review after five years to see the impact of lvnavs and to see what the implications will be for the phasing out of lvnavs. we could have a situation where there might be a significant outflow of funds and capital from european funds and also from ireland. we need to answer those questions before we make a decision on a sunset clause.
in writing. ‒ despite reforms already proposed in this regulation to address a number of issues with money market funds, there remains a grave concern in relation to the stability of the mmf industry and the risks it may pose for the broader financial system. moreover, economic research provides evidence that the conduct and nature of mmfs make them vulnerable to destabilising investor runs, which can spread quickly among funds, impairing liquidity and the availability of short- term credit, in particular for banks. and it should also be noted that while mmfs did not cause the financial crisis of 2007 to 2008, their performance during the financial turmoil highlighted their potential to spread, or even amplify, a crisis. the experience from the 2007 to 2008 crisis has shown that mmfs may be susceptible to investor runs and may need the support of sponsor companies, in particular to maintain their constant net asset value. an upward convergence in financial regulation is required and as it stands this report would not be strong enough to protect irish financial interests, particularly in light of an economy which is seeking to recover. it was for these reasons that i voted against this report.
in writing. ‒ despite reforms already proposed in this regulation to address a number of issues with money market funds, there remains a grave concern in relation to the stability of the money market fund industry and the risks it may pose for the broader financial system. moreover, economic research provides evidence that the conduct and nature of mmfs make them vulnerable to destabilising investor runs, which can spread quickly among funds, impairing liquidity and the availability of short- term credit, in particular for banks. the risk of an investor run may be higher for constant net asset value funds in cases where there is a perception that they would fail to live up to investor expectations of redemption at par. and it should also be noted that while mmfs did not cause the financial crisis of 2007 to 2008, their performance during the financial turmoil highlighted their potential to spread, or even amplify, a crisis. . an upward convergence in financial regulation is required and as it stands this report would not be strong enough to protect irish financial interests, particularly in light of an economy which is seeking to recover. it was for these reasons that i voted against this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the money market funds report. i believe that a balanced compromise has been reached and we have delivered an important first step to regulating the money market fund industry adequately. but the file still requires more work as we go into trilogue negotiations with the european council.
in writing. ‒ i am happy to support the compromise that was reached on this report. it is important that regulation should not disproportionately affect smaller member states and so i am pleased to see that the parliament text will recognise that cnavs and vnavs will continue into the future as they are important financing sources for numerous purposes.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the money market funds report as i believe that a balanced compromise has been reached and we have delivered an important first step to regulating the money market fund industry adequately. but the file still requires more work as the parliament goes into trilogue negotiations with the european council.
in writing. ‒ despite reforms proposed in this regulation to address a number of issues with money market funds, there remains a grave concern in relation to the stability of the mmf industry and the risks it may pose for the broader financial system. economic research provides evidence that the conduct and nature of mmfs make them vulnerable to destabilising investor runs, which can spread quickly among funds, impairing liquidity and the availability of short- term credit, in particular for banks. while mmfs did not cause the financial crisis of 2007 to 2008, their performance during the financial turmoil highlighted their potential to spread, or even amplify a crisis. the experience from the 2007-2008 crisis has shown that mmfs may be susceptible to investor runs and may need the support of sponsor companies, in particular to maintain their constant net asset value. an upward convergence in financial regulation is required and as it stands this report would not be strong enough to protect irish financial interests, particularly in light of an economy which is seeking to recover. for these reasons i voted against this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report. it is a technical report which makes technical corrections to the commission proposal (which is a codification and recast of an existing regulation).
in writing. ‒ i support this report as it seeks to provide a codification of the existing regulation on imports of textile products. the change from comitology and ad hoc decision making procedures into delegated and implementing acts is taking place and with omnibus i bringing 18 regulations to this alignment, this one is also included in it as well.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report. this report was concerned with next year's budgets estimate. it also highlighted the need for a greater transparency as regards the general expenditure allowance for members and called on the parliament's bureau to work on the definition of more precise rules regarding the accountability of the expenditure authorised under this allowance.
in writing. ‒ i supported this report and in particular voted for verification of meps` expenditure accounts on a voluntary and on an annual basis. as far as an increase in the parliamentary assistants allowance, i did not support the amendment which rejected it. it is very important to remember that assistants' allowance goes entirely towards employing assistants and all monies are fully audited to ensure that the parliamentary allowance is fully and properly accounted for.
in writing. ‒ i am pleased to support this report. the responsibilities and duties of the european parliament have increased in recent times; however, the budget has been only moderately increased compared to expenditures in 2015. additional personnel and infrastructure is needed as more tasks are being completed with fewer resources, and an increased budget for parliamentary assistance strengthens the independence of meps.
in writing. ‒ i supported this report as it is the first estimate on the parliament's budget for 2016. it is a balanced compromise addressing important issues such as security measures. the figures proposed will be referred to the commission for the 2016 draft budget.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report as i have grave concerns in relation to the establishment of the european public prosecutors office and the parameters of its remit. harmonisation will inevitably mean the adoption of the european inquisitorial model to replace the trial by jury system which applies in ireland and a number of other common law jurisdictions. this has the potential to seriously undermine the presumption of innocence. basically, this means that an accused person would no longer be treated as innocent before being proven guilty, but that the onus will now be on anyone accused of a crime to prove his or her innocence. the rationale for the development of an eu criminal law is to combat transnational organised crime. the intention is of course to be welcomed but not at the expense of subjugating and undermining the existing judicial systems of individual member states to the interests of the eu.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report as i have grave concerns in relation to the establishment of the european public prosecutors office and the parameters of its remit. harmonisation will inevitably mean the adoption of the european inquisitorial model to replace the trial by jury system which applies in ireland and a number of other common law jurisdictions. this has the potential to seriously undermine the presumption of innocence. basically, this means that an accused person would no longer be treated as innocent before being proven guilty, but that the onus will now be on anyone accused of a crime to prove his or her innocence. the rationale for the development of an eu criminal law is to combat transnational organised crime. the intention is of course to be welcomed but not at the expense of subjugating and undermining the existing judicial systems of individual member states to the interests of the eu.
in writing. ‒ i am happy to support this report calling for a single and independent european public prosecutors' office with an efficient structure, and open and transparent selection procedures of the prosecutors. the process is, however, ongoing and it will be important to ensure that the principle of subsidiarity on certain aspects will be taken into account in negotiations.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report as creation of an independent body will assist member states in effectively investigating and prosecuting offences under the eu budget.
i wrote it. ‒ i voted against this report because of my concerns about the establishment of the european public prosecutor's office and the size of the term 'tagartha'. the commission has adopted the european system of inquiry in lieu of trial under the national law, a system which is in place in ireland and which is also regulated by community law. you could take a law and make it a good one to use in your non-conformity. it means that they would go to a person who was trying to create a non-contact. the aim is to develop european electoral law in the area of the co-decision of transnational organisations. of course, it is welcome to look at the kind of ideas that are currently being put forward in the various member states.
madam president, first of all i would like to start by welcoming the eur 9.3 billion spent by the eib to promote skills training and employment opportunities for young people and the launch of your skills and jobs: investing in youth initiative. it is certainly a step in the right direction. while it is positive to hear mr hoyer say that the eib has exceeded its targets of an additional eur 180 billion investment, youth unemployment still remains unacceptably high and we have to redouble our efforts. in the context of smes, we in alde believe they should be the main target for investment. however, i am pleased to see that my suggestion on midcaps is part of the report. your focus on midcaps, through your midcap initiative and growth finance initiative, is important, as many smes of course want to grow to be midcaps. but i also want to mention one particular eib instrument, and that is the microfinance facility. recently, i took the opportunity to visit the microfinance offices in dublin, in ireland, and i was really pleased to see that microfinance ireland had already supported 1 000 jobs in its second year in operation, and they have targeted a further 1 000 jobs by the end of this year. over 430 microenterprises with fewer than ten employees have benefited from loans, and what is really important is that these enterprises were unable to secure funding elsewhere. so that clearly shows the added value of the microfinance facility. one other positive aspect was that 75% of the investment was within the regions. finally, i would like to say that my suggestion on supporting the virtual economy is part of this report and hopefully the eib will take it into consideration.
madam president, i welcome this report and i also welcome to the chamber president hoyer and his team from the eib. it is crucially important, as countries move from being a programme country back into the international lending market having completed structural reform and having got their deficits down, that they obtain the support of the european investment bank. i was really delighted to hear from the commission today that there is an increase in lending to programme countries from 2013-2014 in the order of 27 %. in the case of ireland, which has gone through an enormous shock, in 2010 the eib lending to ireland was eur 210 million; last year, 2014, it was eur 850 million. here is an example showing that we can invest more and lend more to countries who have improved their own position as a result of structural reform and as a result of getting an appalling deficit down. that is where measures to address the gap in investment need to be encouraged and supported – especially in the case of former programme countries, or those countries currently in the midst of a programme. finally, can i make this point: the european investment bank needs to be given, in my view, a much more structured dialogue in this house, especially through the committee on economic and monetary affairs (econ). while our engagement here is very useful, i do think on a quarterly basis, at the very least, that the eib – and i know they welcome this and would encourage this – should be before this house to ensure that these issues are gone through in a more detailed way. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8))
blue-card question.– mr hayes talks about filling a hole. i have a question for mr hayes: would it not be easier to fill that hole that was created by institutions like the ecb when they forced us to save non-systemic banks and left us with odious debt to the tune of tens of billions of euros? would it not be better to give us back the money that was robbed of our country, than to have us going begging for a pittance in return?
blue-card answer.– unfortunately the member opposite does not really understand the problems that ireland has gone through. the problems that ireland unfortunately went through were as a result of an appalling decision taken by the irish government in terms of a bank guarantee. that was not a decision imposed on the irish people but unfortunately the government of the day took that decision. we have been living with the consequences of that ever since. that is why it is crucial that we get enhanced lending opportunities from the european investment bank – which we have – and we have shown, in that way, that we can improve our prospects by making those decisions work for ireland.
on behalf of the gue/ngl group.– madam president, i voted in favour of this report on the eu alcohol strategy. in ireland, alcohol measures cost an estimated eur 3.7 billion a year, working out at over eur 3 000 per tax payer. unsurprisingly, allowing alcohol companies to self-regulate has failed to tackle the serious public health and public disturbance costs alcohol has for our society. one of the world’s largest drink companies, diageo, has recently stepped down from a so-called ‘responsible drinking’ campaign in ireland, where its attempts to tamper with, and dampen, the public health message were clear. it is unfortunate that alcohol sponsorship in sporting events was not included by the irish government in its alcohol bill earlier this year. well-funded positive images of alcohol use from companies such as diageo outweigh those of public health campaigns and have a powerful influence on young people. it is the role of member states to counter this influence. information and education campaigns can play a key role here, whilst the european commission should help to share best practice. i welcome the reference in the report to a nutritional labelling regulation, because the commission is dragging its feet. it was meant to come forward in december with a report on the possibility of including alcohol in nutritional labelling with a view to proposing legislation. if we are able to know the calorie content of a mars bar, what, apart from industry concerns for their profit margins, is stopping us from knowing the same information for alcoholic beverages?
madam president, i voted in favour of eu-wide labelling on the calorie content of alcohol beverages and also supported the need for an eu-wide label warning pregnant women not to consume alcohol. i consider that this is a very important issue, especially when we look at the consequences of foetal alcohol syndrome. indeed in ireland, when we export alcoholic beverages to the us, they contain that label of a pregnant women with a line through her, but we do not have it at home. that makes absolutely no sense. i personally have an aversion to the nanny state, but i think that putting information on bottles containing alcoholic beverages is a sensible and reasonable idea. i also think it is reasonable to consider labelling which will alert consumers to the dangers of drink-driving. in ireland we have had some success – our roads are somewhat safer – because of a sustained campaign and crackdown on drink-driving. labelling is just one possibility but, given the often horrific consequences of drink-driving, i think we should consider all reasonable alternatives.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this important resolution as it aims to provide solutions to alcohol-related harm. this is the third highest cause of preventable premature death and disease in europe and it is a serious problem both in ireland and across europe. excessive drinking is an extremely serious public health issue, which takes a heavy human toll on individuals, families and the community at large. sinn féin’s alcohol strategy focuses on preventing the negative impacts of alcohol on the unborn and on young people, as well as in the workplace and in relation to road safety. unfortunately, industry lobbying prevented the mandatory labelling of the calorie count in alcoholic drinks, but we want the commission to revisit that issue. the commission had a mandate to report on this requirement, which was due last december, and we are still waiting for it. prevention and the stringent enforcement of legislation to prevent the sale of alcohol to minors are absolute priorities at a time when drinking habits and patterns are causing serious harm.
in writing. ‒ we had an alcohol strategy in place from 2006 until 2012, focused on preventing the negative impacts of alcohol on the unborn and our youth, as well as in the workplace and in relation to road safety. we want it back. unfortunately, industry lobbying prevented the mandatory labelling of the calorie count in alcoholic drinks but we want the commission to revisit the issue. the commission had a mandate to report on this requirement, which was due last december, and we are still waiting for it. the right wing voted to restrict the scope of the demand to so-called ‘alcopops’, but thankfully a majority of colleagues defeated that. it is a matter of information, awareness and consumer choice, which even the european brewing industry has come to support. prevention and the stringent enforcement of legislation to prevent the sale of alcohol to minors are absolute priorities at a time when very worrisome drinking habits and patterns are causing serious harm.
in writing. ‒ alcohol is the leading cause of ill health and premature death for the core of the eu´s working-age population (25-59). the social cost attributable to alcohol is an estimated eur 156 billion a year, as it is linked to public health issues such as obesity and to other social problems including family breakdown and violence. reducing alcohol-induced harm is therefore an active investment in our economies as well as a means by which we can achieve a better quality of life for all european citizens. with the recent publication of the public health (alcohol) bill, ireland is now leading the way in addressing this issue and europe needs to follow suit. i believe that this resolution strikes the right balance between the public health promotion and the recognition of national cultural differences in relation to alcohol consumption. i have therefore voted in favour of this resolution.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this strategy as more needs to be done to tackle the negative effects of alcohol abuse, particularly by minors.
in writing. ‒ this month marked the second anniversary of the rana plaza building collapse in bangladesh, in which more than 1 100 workers died in one of the most fatal industrial accidents of our time. as a result of the rana plaza disaster, a number of initiatives were taken on an international level to improve the situation in the ready-made garment sector. this sector employs 4 million people, mostly female workers in bangladesh. one of these initiatives was the sustainability compact, which was signed in july 2013. the rana plaza building collapse was followed by a public outcry which exposed a number of violations of labour law. it was for these reasons that i voted in favour of the resolution.
in writing. ‒ today we mark the second anniversary of the tragedy in bangladesh where the collapse of the rana plaza building killed 1 134 people and injured hundreds of others. families of the victims are still fighting for compensation and, although a number of major brands have donated to the rana plaza donors trust fund to award compensation, there is still a huge shortfall. despite the efforts of the international labour organisation and of eu and us agencies, the rights and safety of garment factory workers in bangladesh are still not being safeguarded. many companies are still refusing to pay their workers a fair living wage, and the issuing of building permits is still not being properly monitored. unless there is real pressure from across the globe, we will continue to see cheap and fast fashion at the cost of human lives.
in writing. ‒ i supported this resolution on the rana plaza building collapse. i was happy to support amendment 1, naming and shaming companies which did not pay their fair share of the contributions and those companies which have refused to declare their donation. i voted against amendment 2 but i am changing my vote to ‘in favour’, as i had intended to vote in favour of a mandatory and enforceable corporate social responsibility (csr) clause in all bilateral trade and investment agreements signed by the eu, but unfortunately i pressed the wrong button.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the joint motion for a resolution as i believe that more must be done to improve working conditions in bangladesh. the european parliament has an important role to play in putting pressure on the bangladeshi government to act on its commitments to improve working conditions, particularly for factory workers.
in writing. ‒ i wholeheartedly support this motion for a resolution. two years after 1 129 workers lost their lives in the rana plaza building collapse, as well as numerous other deaths in the region from factory fires and collapses, we mark the anniversary in order to show respect for the victims. i welcome the continued monitoring of the situation. it is of vital importance that the conditions of the sustainability compact continue to be implemented in order to improve the working conditions for the four million workers in 4 000 textile factories in bangladesh, particularly in areas such as occupational safety and respect of labour rights. we acknowledge the efforts already made by the government of bangladesh and the further improvements that must be undertaken.
in writing. ‒ i supported this resolution to mark the second anniversary of the rana plaza garment factory collapse, as more needs to be done to tackle corruption in the health and safety inspectorates and to improve working conditions.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this joint motion for a resolution. it is absolutely imperative to show solidarity with those who require it most. despite public outrage over the horrendous loss of lives and the plight of thousands of migrants fleeing poverty and conflict in their homelands, the uncomfortable reality is that many eu citizens are opposed to further immigration into europe – as is evidenced by the rise of various right-wing anti-immigration parties. furthermore, the european council’s recent 10-point plan included measures to tighten up, rather than open up, borders, and included too the introduction of fingerprinting of migrants, and return programmes for irregular migrants. these measures only serve to foster a sense of distrust and suspicion and do not provide any meaningful steps towards the eradication of poverty, or any hope for those who require it so desperately. it should be remembered that the european union was meant to be as much about solidarity as about economic growth. as we all know, all politics is local, but solidarity has no borders.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the joint resolution on the recent tragedies in the mediterranean and on eu migration and asylum policies. this has been and continues to be a crucial issue for the eu. vast numbers of irregular migrants, many of whom are fleeing conflict or persecution, are attempting to come to europe. unfortunately it has taken the harrowing deaths of hundreds of people for member states and the eu to sit up and pay attention. that more than 1 500 people have died in the mediterranean since the beginning of this year alone is shocking. europe must show solidarity and share responsibility. operation triton is underfunded, and the eu and member states must ensure its effectiveness into the future by providing necessary resources. therefore the european council’s commitment to reinforcing the eu triton operation by increasing funding and assets is very welcome.
in writing. ‒ i fully support this resolution which calls for greater efforts by the eu and all member states in several different areas: increased resources for search and rescue operations; increased solidarity and responsibility in terms of more protection for the refugees and standardisation of legal, financial and reception conditions; implementation of strong criminal sanctions against human traffickers; closer coordination of eu and member states in tackling migration and its root causes. these can all be improved even beyond these aims, and i hope that the eu and its member states will work together to tackle this grave issue.
in writing. – i support this report which urges bosnia and herzegovina to adapt the interim agreement to preferential trade with croatia. the prolongation of autonomous trade measures (atms) should not be automatic but should be dependent on acceptance of the eu methodology. at the moment, all western balkan countries – the members of the central european free trade agreement (cefta) – with the exception of bosnia and herzegovina have concluded negotiations to amend their agreements with the eu to apply the new rules. i hope, therefore, that more work will be done so that bosnia and herzegovina and the eu can conclude and sign an agreement with which trade preference will be re-established.
the president, who is often the best in parliament after the votes, is today the best in the report, with 578 votes out of 643. we are so happy to be able to do this and so happy to be able to do it with a foreigner and a man who is a christian around the world. there was a session without us today. it has increased in recent years, especially in africa and the middle east, and there are many reports of al-shabab attacks on students in chechnya. therefore, i urge you in all things to do what is right in the eyes of god, and especially in those things which concern your souls.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the joint motion for a resolution on the persecution of christians around the world. there is no doubt that some christian communities suffer persecution in different parts of the world – and this must be recognised and condemned. however, persecution of all and any religious minorities anywhere in the world must be condemned as unacceptable. unfortunately many of the amendments submitted concerned the persecution of christian minorities only. while i supported amendments that were factually accurate, it would have been preferable had the amendments concerned the persecution of all religious minorities, all around the world, rather than just christians, particularly those in the middle east. because of the large number of authoritarian regimes in the middle east and the ongoing conflicts, the rights of many religious minorities, not only christians, are poorly protected. indeed, many different religious, ethnic, cultural and linguistic minorities, as well as the lgbt community and refugees, are all extremely vulnerable to violence and oppression. sinn féin fully supports the right of all people to freedom of religion and belief, and takes the view that all minorities and vulnerable people need to be strongly protected in law.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the joint motion for a resolution on the persecution of christians around the world. there is no doubt that some christian communities suffer persecution in different parts of the world – and this must be recognised and condemned. however, persecution of all and any religious minorities anywhere in the world must be condemned as unacceptable. unfortunately many of the amendments submitted concerned the persecution of christian minorities only. while i supported amendments that were factually accurate, it would have been preferable had the amendments concerned the persecution of all religious minorities, all around the world, rather than just christians, particularly those in the middle east. because of the large number of authoritarian regimes in the middle east and the ongoing conflicts, the rights of many religious minorities, not only christians, are poorly protected. indeed, many different religious, ethnic, cultural and linguistic minorities, as well as the lgbt community and refugees, are all extremely vulnerable to violence and oppression. sinn féin fully supports the right of all people to freedom of religion and belief, and takes the view that all minorities and vulnerable people need to be strongly protected in law.
in writing. ‒ i supported this motion for a resolution and indeed virtually all of the amendments. some of these amendments referred to other areas, such as the arab world, and to isis atrocities, and were not directly linked to the kenyan massacre. nonetheless i was happy to support them, as was the majority of the parliament, because this sends a strong message about the systematic singling out and killing of christians by different groups. there is no doubt that the persecution of christians is intensifying. the pew institute in washington has conducted research in 13 countries and found that christians face varying degrees of persecution. the international society for human rights has found that 80% of religious freedom violations in the world today are directed against christians. this resolution sends a strong message.
in writing. ‒ i support this resolution in its condemnation of the recent surge in violence and persecution of christians in africa and the middle east, which has seen many people abducted and terrorised, forced to flee their homes, and lose their lives in a brutal and horrifying manner. as enshrined in the universal declaration of human rights, all people have the right to freedom of religion and belief and to live in their traditional homelands in conditions of dignify, equality and safety, rights which have been significantly violated by the perpetrators of these acts of violence. i find the recent attack by al-shabaab on university students in kenya particularly abhorrent, in its intention to undermine education and exploit religious difference the country, in order to deprive it of future economic and cultural growth, shake its stability and threaten the dignity of all its citizens. i have therefore voted in favour of this resolution.
the uachtaráin, like the laws, is the last thing that has to be done to distinguish us all. there is no limit to the laws and regulations that isis has in place regarding the treatment of people, especially in this regard, regarding the protection of cultural property. i'm not going to be able to do it. there is no understanding that the wise are the ones who are in the know and when they make their writings or cultural laws they are imitating god; they cannot be taken for granted. therefore, we have cooperated with unesco and ngos in particular to combat the use of bharat as a weapon against them.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the joint motion for a resolution on the destruction of cultural sites perpetrated by isis/da’esh. the intentional destruction of cultural, archaeological and religious sites by isis in syria and iraq is deplorable and i welcome the condemnation of this in the joint motion. the joint motion points out that the destruction of cultural sites is used as a weapon of war and that this crime needs to be tackled. such intentional destruction of cultural sites is unjustifiable whether carried out by isis or other non-state or state actors. i welcome calls to extend the international law category of ‘crimes against humanity’ so that it encompasses acts which wilfully damage or destroy the cultural heritage of mankind on a large scale.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the joint motion for a resolution on the destruction of cultural sites perpetrated by isis/da’esh. the intentional destruction of cultural, archaeological and religious sites by isis in syria and iraq is deplorable and i welcome the condemnation of this in the joint motion. the joint motion points out that the destruction of cultural sites is used as a weapon of war and that this crime needs to be tackled. such intentional destruction of cultural sites is unjustifiable whether carried out by isis or other non-state or state actors. i welcome calls to extend the international law category of ‘crimes against humanity’ so that it encompasses acts which wilfully damage or destroy the cultural heritage of mankind on a large scale.
in writing. ‒ i wholeheartedly support this resolution, which condemns the destruction of cultural, archaeological and religious sites being perpetrated by isis in syria and iraq. our cultural heritage is our identity, and i strongly condemn this intentional and targeted destruction. culturally, iraq is one of the richest and most diverse regions in the world, and these sites and artefacts which have stood for centuries exist no longer. it is not just for ideological reasons that these artefacts are being looted, but for economic reasons as well. goods are being trafficked to finance terrorist activities, and a coordinated approach between the eu, unesco and other international organisations is needed, in order to combat this illegal trade.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this joint motion for a resolution calling for the immediate release of former president mohamed nasheed, who is being tried on questionable charges in the maldives. the joint motion calls for respect for the rule of law, due process, an independent judiciary, fair trials and civil and political rights. furthermore, it calls for an end to violence against protesters, condemns the reintroduction of the death penalty, and calls for a full investigation into the disappearance of a reporter. it was for these reasons that i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ i fully support this motion which seeks to ensure that the rule of law is given full process in the maldives. the european union strives to promote democracy and a pluralistic society around the world. it is therefore imperative that we oppose the manner of the conviction of former maldivian president mohamed nasheed, under anti-terrorist legislation and without access to a fair trial or the appropriate chance to lodge an appeal against the sentence. we must also oppose the decision in the maldives to break the moratorium on the death penalty in 2014. it is important that we oppose any attempt to reintroduce capital punishment, particularly in nations with legal systems that are still developing and may still be volatile and inconsistent.
in writing. ‒ i welcome the process of integration of albania into the eu which includes social and economic improvement of the country. i support the motion for a resolution as it outlines the progress made by albania throughout 2014 in terms of religious harmony, good inter-ethnic relations, regional and bilateral cooperation. however, the progress needs to continue and the constitutional and institutional reforms are still required.
in writing. ‒ i welcome the process of integrating bosnia and herzegovina (bih) into the eu, which includes social and economic improvement in the country. i supported the motion for a resolution as it outlines the progress made by bih throughout 2014 in terms of fighting organised crime and terrorism, and with regard to legal provisions for freedom of expression and regional cooperation. however, the progress needs to continue, and constitutional and institutional reforms are still required.
madam president, i would particularly like to support this proposal. while it emphasises that the eib is not a commercial bank, it does have a very important role to play in financing very important developments and enterprises in europe. i must also compliment the president and the directors, because they facilitated a visit by my colleagues from fine gael in the epp group to luxembourg a few months ago. they were very open and supportive and that is something that we appreciate. i am also very pleased to see emphasis being put on the role they can play, particularly in financing smes. it is part of the wider juncker investment plan and i think more and more people are realising the important role the eib plays and that it will play an even greater role in the future. i welcome their openness and their good work.
in writing. ‒ this report contained several positive elements. in particular, it provided a critique of eu austerity, coupled with a call to put public investment back at the core of economic policy. in addition, it contained a critique of the european investment bank’s involvement in corruption cases, failed infrastructure projects and dangerous gas projects. in particular, it called for more investment in renewables and for the phasing-out of all energy projects in fossil fuels, and it also called for investment in regions with high unemployment and low gdp. for these reasons, i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ this report contained several positive elements. in particular, it provided a critique of eu austerity, coupled with a call to put public investment back at the core of economic policy. in addition, it contained a critique of the european investment bank’s involvement in corruption cases, failed infrastructure projects and dangerous gas projects. in particular, it called for more investment in renewables and for the phasing-out of all energy projects in fossil fuels, and it also called for investment in regions with high unemployment and low gdp. for these reasons, i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ i supported a number of amendments to this report, including amendment 33 on the failed castor project. this project, at a cost of eur 1.35 billion to the taxpayer, was ill thought through, with risk assessments side-lined by the spanish government. the european investment bank did not carry out sufficient due diligence on the project and the result was a huge waste of taxpayers’ money. i also supported recitals b, which states that the economic and financial crisis, coupled with austerity policies, has seriously undermined economic growth in many member states, and a, asserting that the eib is an instrument designed to support social cohesion.
in writing. ‒ i am pleased to support this report. it rightly stresses that the eib is not a commercial bank but highlights the important role it plays as catalyst for financing sound public and private long term investment. i am pleased to see emphasis put on smes in the report as they are drivers of our economic growth and should be given good access to finance.
the uachtaráin, is the last speech given by the queen in her current capacity. i welcome and, obviously, voted in favour of these resolutions and actually i am very pleased to have voted with my group on all votes today particularly on this one. it does highlight two very important, almost contradictory elements in relation to food. first, malnutrition and people dying of poverty around the world; and then, on the other hand, the growth in obesity from people often not taking enough exercise and eating too much food. so putting an emphasis on this, particularly proper agricultural practices, and on the target of trying to eliminate poverty is something we should certainly propose and support; and i think we all do. so i think there's an opportunity for us to identify where we can be effective and tackle the two problems on either end of the spectrum: obesity and malnutrition.
in writing. ‒ i enthusiastically support this motion for resolution. the theme of the milan expo 2015 represents an excellent opportunity to put forward the debate on improving food production and distribution, tackling waste and promoting sustainable agricultural practices to combat the challenge of malnutrition. with 870 million people in the world malnourished and 2.8 million suffering from obesity, i welcome this chance to bring equilibrium to the supply and consumption of food worldwide. this resolution also promotes sustainable farming and agricultural practices, and encourages research and innovation in the world’s agriculture industry. it is only through careful, intelligent innovation and investment in the agriculture sector that we can hope to eliminate hunger and malnutrition around the world, as well as ensure the environmental benefits from ecologically sound food production
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this motion for a resolution, which calls for an international response to the atrocities committed by boko haram. these actions are utterly deplorable and need to be condemned by all right-minded people. however, there were a number of roll call votes in which i tabled a negative vote as they were calling for a militaristic intervention. sinn féin has long rejected participation in any military alliance or foreign interference. we have consistently called for a greater focus on solving the causes of conflict, such as political and economic inequality and instability and the absence of democracy. our own experience of conflict and conflict resolution has taught us that the path to peace is not to be found in increasing military intervention but in dialogue, inclusivity and equality. there is now a moral responsibility on us all, as societies, to show the same outrage at, and invest the same resources in addressing the causes and consequences of, an atrocity in nigeria as we would if it were happening anywhere else, but that does not mean increased military intervention.
in writing. ‒ i fully support this motion for a resolution. whilst newly elected president general muhammadu buhari is to be congratulated, along with all others who have successfully gained office in peaceful, democratic elections, the recent violence in nigeria must be strongly condemned. the extreme violence perpetrated by islamist jihadi extremist group boko haram that has resulted in thousands of deaths and destruction of properties since the turn of the year represents a great humanitarian atrocity which the eu must take a firm stance against. i give full support to the nigerian authorities in committing all resources to ending the violence of boko haram, and in ensuring the release of the 287 missing chibok school girls and other kidnapped persons. such efforts will help to restore stability in nigeria and its surrounding regions.
mr president, i accept your ruling, but i just would suggest that, rather than taking blue cards in the next two debates, you might allow more time for ‘catch the eye’; because a lot of the blue cards seem to me to be spurious and irrelevant.
mr president, i think that in this day and age most people would expect that people would be at least safe in a refugee camp, that they would have access to fresh water and have the basic requirements of food and clothing. unfortunately, it is not so in this camp which has seen its numbers diminish from 150 000 to 18 000 and which has been described as beyond humane, inhumane. it was also described by u.n. secretary-general ban ki-moon as a ‘circle of hell’. this is terrible. it has emerged in recent times, as a result of isis in particular, that there is no limit to what people are prepared to do in pursuit of violence and their objectives. so we have to try to get all the authorities to respect the neutrality of the camp and try to get good conditions there for the unfortunate occupants.
the european parliament is the epp group's head. the president, at first, is probably entitled to give us the honour of having made a decision on the situation in the african community. as regards the laws on the subject which are applicable to all types of goods and services, the scope of the scope of the scope is limited to the goods and services which are not subject to the scope of the scope. however, it is also important to inform the authorities when you do not have the right to be in the police, for example, when you are in contact with a person due to go to court, especially when you are giving evidence to people who are in the police; you cannot try to be treated as such. there's no reason why a man could be thrown in jail for a year because he took part in a suicide bombing. is ceart, mar chairde, is sin a chur in iúl don ailgéir agus brú a chur orthu cearta daonna bunúsacha a thabhairt do gach duine san ailgéir. is ceart, mar chairde, is sin a chur in iúl don ailgéir agus brú a chur orthu cearta daonna bunúsacha a thabhairt do gach duine san ailgéir. is ceart, mar chairde, is sin a chur in iúl don ailgéir agus brú a chur orthu cearta daonna bunúsacha a thabhairt do gach duine san ailgéir. is ceart, mar chairde, is sin a chur in iúl don ailgéir agus brú a chur orthu cearta daonna bunúsacha a thabhairt do gach duine san ailgéir.
vice-president of the commission.– mr president, i would like to thank everyone for participating in a debate that clearly showed the complexity of the topic we are discussing today. i would like to apologise once again for mixing up people and parties. it was not intentional, and so i would also like to thank mr staes and mr geier for their contributions. let me make five points today. this will be one step in an ongoing debate with the parliament on this topic. my first point is that this house has my personal commitment on an engagement that allows us, together, to define what the role of this particular instrument is. as many have said, we need a broader approach that is not exhausted by this specific instrument, but we also have to decide on its role in the future. my second point is that in the differences in opinion, there was one issue on which almost everybody was of the same opinion – namely the necessity for more transparency so that, as we move forward, it is done in the form of an open discussion. of course, to the extent that we can pursue transparency in that matter, we will do so. in other words, we are going to come to parliament with ways in which members’ participation in the deliberations can be active. my third point is that there are no ongoing negotiations. none. there have been, as per the agreement, exploratory talks. these are required by the agreement with philip morris international. two years before exploration, we need to look into the potential for prolongation. these talks have addressed one issue, namely whether there would be interest on the side of philip morris. they seem to be interested and we have also indicated on both sides that, before we move towards any step for or against negotiations, we need to complete our own assessments. our assessment is ongoing. once it is finalised, we will share it with parliament. on that basis, we will make a decision on whether or not – of course, in consultation with the council and parliament – to go for a prolongation. some of those here have spoken clearly in favour – some clearly, some cautiously, but saying that it is an instrument which still seems to be necessary – and there have been those speaking clearly against it. we obviously have to look at the costs and benefits before we come to any decision. that is something that we would do in an open and transparent manner. there will be no negotiations of which you are not aware, if at all, because that is – i repeat – an open question. my fourth point is on a question that was posed to me, and i want to address it directly: does one have the right even to consider negotiations, given that the protocol in relation to article 5.3 of the framework convention on tobacco control (fctc) calls on the parties to protect their public health policies from commercial or vested interests, and it actually says that you should not talk to these people or engage with them? this is the point that was made. i want to stress that the who secretariat to the fctc has issued guidelines on how they would wish to see that article implemented by the parties. these guidelines contain an explicit exemption for binding and enforceable agreements, such as these tobacco agreements. that is not to say that we should rush into a decision lightly, but rather that there is a clarifying document – the guidelines – that go with the protocol. my fifth and last point is just a point of clarification on an independent laboratory. we agree that this is necessary. a number of members pointed out the fact that, if the companies themselves are those who have the means to do all the assessments, then we are a bit blind. i confirm that we have taken a decision and we are pursuing having an independent laboratory that we can use. with the assessment forthcoming, i just want to stress that there has been quite an impressive impact on reducing illicit trade. just to give you a sense, we have had here a debate that has spread over about an hour and a half. in each minute of that hour and a half, 22 packs of illicit cigarettes have been seized. the volume is in the billions. these are cigarettes that are not put on our markets at a price below the regulatory one, are accessible to our young people, and are not in line with our health policies. this is taking money away from our treasuries. so there is clearly a benefit, but we also have to be mindful that we have an evolving regulatory context. i want to stress this. we now have the directive and we have the protocol. we have to make every effort possible. i could not agree more with the speakers who have said that we should implement the directive and accelerate the ratification of the protocol. that remains our bigger objective. the question we have to answer is whether there is a need, in the foreseeable future, for other instruments to complement these two big funding elements of what we want to use to fight smoking for health reasons and illegal trade for health, fiscal and security reasons. we will answer this question with the house, and with the help of its members, for which i am very grateful.
in writing.– the commission is making a serious mistake by entertaining contacts with the tobacco industry to renew eu agreements. the initial agreements were born from a settlement to a case where the commission accused three tobacco manufacturing giants of being part of a global scheme to smuggle cigarettes, launder the profits of narcotics, fix prices, bribe officials and conduct illegal trade with terrorist groups. yet these companies have been put in charge of monitoring counterfeiting in tobacco smuggling seizures, paying the authorities whenever these are found to be genuine so, unsurprisingly, they have found only 0.5% of seized shipments in 2012 to be genuine. this is a mockery of enforcement and, what is worse, never has a sample been analysed by an independent laboratory, and we know very little of the specifics behind this scheme. the commission was asked by the ep to conduct a proper assessment of this scheme back in 2012, and this is long overdue. what is more outrageous is that, while these talks are going on, these very same big tobacco companies are challenging the tobacco products directive in the ecj. instead, we should be working on how to ratify and implement the who protocol to eliminate illicit trade in tobacco products, which the commission rightly wants the council to do.
on behalf of the gue/ngl group.– mr president, the new rules on vat, as other speakers have said, are obviously designed with positive intentions, but in fact if they are implemented as proposed they could have serious harmful and destructive effects on small businesses and sole traders. the commission contends that the rules will introduce a level playing field, as they mean that sellers will not be in a position to undercut competitors unfairly by using a lower vat rate. however, because there is no threshold, the real impact is that the smallest companies and sole traders are going to be left unable to compete and they are going to face the stark reality of having to close their businesses down in some instances. moreover, it creates a divide between multinational companies, who can very easily put in place systems to comply with the new rules, and those small traders and small businesses that simply cannot do so. small and medium enterprises, as you are well aware, commissioner, are the lifeblood of many local domestic economies including my own, and they cannot be disregarded when we are introducing measures such as this.
i was recently elected as president of the committee on energy, research and technology (itre) on climate change and i hope to be in the negotiations with the parties by the end of this year.
i'm afraid my tongue is so foul that i say, "is better a tsláinte than a tainte". is fíor sin mar muna mbíonn an tsláinte agat is deacair taitneamh a bhaint as an saol. therefore, it is right to focus on this topic tonight. (breakfast with fheisire doru-claudian frunzulica on the rules of the 'catch-the-eye' procedure)
i wish i was more aggravated, more emotional and more concerned about my health. it is true, but when a healthy person is difficult to enjoy life. so it's right to focus on this topic tonight. people were talking here recently about thaighde go háirithe. it is important to go beyond the study of legal issues, especially as they relate to data. we started doing this early and we took every opportunity to do research without doing anything for the health laws.
i wish i could go to the movies, but i'm afraid it's better than ever. i hope that we can put this into practice as soon as possible to help citizens in europe. it is estimated that a properly functioning digital single market could create 3.8 million jobs and bring eur 415 billion into the european economy. obviously, we all welcome that and want it to happen, and certainly these proposals are a step in the right direction and can be implemented as soon as possible. one area i would like to focus on, though, is education. the fact that there are so many high-tech jobs lying idle in europe at the minute because of unqualified personnel is an indictment of the educational system, especially at the third-level and in universities, who like to see themselves as leaders. i certainly welcome the fact that they are stepping up to the plate now, but from now on they need to be ahead of the curve, not behind it, if we are to create a digital single market. i particularly welcome movements like coderdojo, a volunteer group which is helping to create the programmers and the coders of the future. education from kindergarten to third-level is vital for the creation of the market. finally, i welcome the points made about copyright, broadband and roaming. as ms grossetête said, the future is going to be digital, so let's get with the digital game.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report. this vote was merely concerned with technical matters and it was not connected to the content but was instead concerned with codification. codification of legal texts is an important tool as it leads to greater legal certainty and clarity. this is important as, if you do not codify the text, the former several amended versions of the texts stay. codification, is, in a nutshell, a simplification. any proposal that provides greater legal clarity and transparency should be welcomed as it is the complex nature of such texts which frequently leads to unnecessary legal challenges, often at the taxpayers’ expense.
in writing. ‒ this case concerned the waiver of the parliamentary immunity of viktor uskpaskich, who is a lithuanian mep. the facts related to the alleged offence of ‘contempt of court officials’ and while this offence does feature in the lithuanian criminal code, there are very concerning facts in some of the wikileaks cables on this case that one could interpret as being politically motivated, given also that the mep concerned is a lithuanian russian minority language speaker. for the above mentioned reasons, i abstained on this vote.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, which relates to the waiver of the parliamentary immunity of jérôme lavrilleux, who is an epp french mep. since there is no fumus persecutionis (false discrimination and accusation) and since jérôme lavrilleux further accepted to waive his immunity, i voted in favour of waiving that immunity.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which relates to the waiver of the parliamentary immunity of janusz korwin-mikke, who is a polish ni mep. the alleged facts are unconnected to the exercise of the office of mep and the rules appear to be applied equitably and uniformly. it was for these reasons that i voted in favour of the waiver of immunity.
in writing. ‒ this report related to the waiver of parliamentary immunity of theodoros zagorakis. the rules have been applied correctly concerning the requirement that the alleged facts are unconnected to the exercise of the office of mep, and there seems to be no political interference behind the prosecution. on this basis, i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ this report concerned requests for opinions which are made in connection with two initiative reports, which are currently being drafted:– the bresso-brok report on ‘improving the functioning of the european union building on the potential of the lisbon treaty’ – the verhofstadt report on ‘the possible evolutions and adjustments of the current institutional set up of the european union’. the intention behind these initiative reports is to commence a debate regarding the future of the eu and possible treaty changes in this context. it must be noted that these are matters that will undoubtedly prove controversial for my party. however, the request for opinions from the two institutions is a fundamental part of any democracy and, moreover, if we are to have a debate about the future of the eu, then as many stakeholders as possible should be heard in the process. it was for these reasons that i voted in favour of this report.
madam president, i abstained on this vote. the libor rate-fixing scandal told us all we need to know about the ethics and morals of the finance industry at the very top. we should in fact be going much further than we are going, and the fingerprints of the industry are all over this legislation, as is the power of its lobbyists. nevertheless, more could be done. i suppose this is better than nothing, but i abstained.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report. there were some positive aspects to the report. however, there were a number of amendments tabled which aimed to broaden the scope and to include a wide number of benchmarks in the definition of critical benchmarks. moreover, it was hoped that commodity benchmarks would be included. as these amendments were not incorporated, i tabled a negative vote.
in writing. ‒ i supported this report on indices used as benchmarks in financial instruments and financial contracts. we have all seen the impacts of unregulated benchmarks and how their manipulation can lead to serious negative consequences for consumers. this proposal aims to avoid conflicts of interest and ensure improved management and governance controls. by enhancing transparency it helps to ensure adequate protection for consumers and investors using benchmarks. no legislator can ever ensure that there will not be attempts to manipulate indices and defraud customers. however the enhanced package that we now have, allied to the deterrent effect of the fines totalling eur 1.7 billion that were imposed on banks by the eu commission for the manipulation of interest rate benchmarks, should improve the current situation.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report as this regulation will address concerns about the integrity and accuracy of benchmarks in the eu. importantly, it will put in place rules and standards which administrators of benchmarks, contributors to benchmarks and benchmark users will have to adhere to. recent manipulations of different benchmarks have demonstrated the need to enforce adequate legislation in this area.
mr president, i voted in favour of this report. i congratulate all of those who were party to the report. we have got to make it absolutely clear that, if we are serious about reaching the goals that we have set internationally, then a fundamental part of that has got to be around oda development and the commitment of 0.7%. that is especially the case in countries which have not attained that, including my own. as countries move from austerity to growth, we do need to continue our relentless focus on increasing our investment in overseas development. the second issue that is contained in this report, namely helping those least developed countries in having a larger percentage of the development budget, is very important as well. we have seen significant progress in some developing parts of the world; but still, in sub-saharan africa and elsewhere we have not seen that progress. i think it is entirely appropriate that we should use a larger percentage of the development budget in those areas to attain the kind of goals we need to see.
i wrote it. there is a lot of confusion about the way in which the laws are being applied in the richer countries to finance development, and there is a need to clarify the more simple way in which the european union finances development. you should welcome him to these things. it is without doubt, an important thing about it and i think it is very important that women are involved in the development. it gives an idea of the support of the championannas incinerator. it is therefore essential that the commission and the member states take the necessary measures to ensure that the measures adopted by the member states are effective and proportionate. it is without doubt a key investment in such important areas as health and education, for example. the commission should also pay particular attention to the health of women and girls. it involves a wide range of things like care reimhbhreithe agus iarbhreithe, frithghiniúint agus galar gnéas -tarchurtha-rudaí that are thar to be important. because of the things above, i've had to vote and i'll have to kill you.
in writing. ‒ this report calls for the eu and the member states to re-commit to the 0.7% of gni target for official development assistance and to commit additional climate finance (cop21, paris). as such, official development aid is still the main financing instrument. other positive financing instruments concerned tax evasion and illicit capital flows and, furthermore, a commitment to cooperate with developing countries in counteracting aggressive tax avoidance practices. i believe that it is vital that the development agenda be kept alive. the most important impact of development aid in general is the political and public awareness on global structural causes of poverty. it was for these reasons that i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ public aid alone is not sufficient to cover all investment needs in developing countries and so the european parliament calls for the eu to set up, together with developing countries, a regulatory framework that stimulates more responsible, transparent and accountable investment, contributing to the development of a socially—conscious private sector in developing countries. as the biggest donor of development aid, the eu has to play a leadership role in the financing for development process. the eu and its member states must recommit without delay to the 0.7% of gni target for official development aid (oda), with 50% of oda and at least 0.2% of gni reserved for least developed countries, and present multiannual budget timetables for the scaling-up to these levels by 2020. domestic resource mobilisation is more predictable and sustainable than foreign assistance and must be a key source of financing. we are asking the commission to enhance its capacity building assistance in the areas of tax administration, public financial management and anti-corruption, and the eu and member states must actively crack down on tax havens, tax evasion and illicit financial flows.
i wrote it. ‒ there is a lot of clarity in this report, as laws are not yet in place in the richer countries with more money to give to development, and there is a need for more clarity within the european budget on development funding. you should welcome him to these things. it is without doubt, an important thing about the development of laws. the report is supported by the european commission. it is a first step to preventing illegal activities. it is therefore a good idea to invest in such important areas as health and education. the focus should also be on sexual and reproductive health. this includes a wide range of things like pre-pregnancy care and pre-birth, childbirth and birth control, and things that are important. on the basis of the above, i shall vote in favour of this report.
i was pleased to be here in parliament today and to have the opportunity to speak to you about this subject. but of course, there are many things that people want to do that are not easy to vote for today. 637 to 679 to vote in bhfabhar agus mise in éineacht leo. i'd like to see her. it's important, of course, that people who are sick don't go to any trouble to get treatment, but we should be more careful to keep people healthy first. therefore, we welcome the introduction of sport and physical activity in particular. we should certainly have much more infrastructure than people who have the chance to give them money, to walk, to write or to play. chabhródh is without go more laws an scéal.
madam president, i supported the amendment which asked the commission to consider a legislative framework to encourage the development of new antibiotic drugs. in 2011, 25 000 patients died as a result of infections caused by resistant bacteria in the eu. all countries have significant problems in regard to antimicrobial resistance, including my own country, ireland. just six months ago a national group was set up to tackle this issue. dr tony holohan from the department of health has said that urgent and immediate action is needed, as we are entering an era when simple infections could again become killer diseases. but what is really shocking is that, according to dr tony cox of the irish college of general practitioners, nursing home residents in ireland are more than twice as likely to be on an antibiotic than in any other european country. there is an urgent need to address this problem of over-prescription of antibiotics in ireland, particularly for the elderly. our health information and quality authority needs to take immediate action on this issue of over-prescription of antibiotics, because it is putting the health of the general population, including the elderly, at risk.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report. i welcome in particular that this report has highlighted the very serious issue of antimicrobial resistance, which is on the increase and is having worrying impacts on patients’ health across europe. it is estimated that 10 million people will die every year in the world by 2050 because of this phenomenon. it is essential that serious efforts be undertaken now to halt the epidemic. this report is a timely reminder for the need for a coordinated approach to fighting antimicrobial resistance, in line with the one health approach recommended by the world health organisation. it is also to be welcomed that the report highlights the negative effects austerity has had on member states’ healthcare systems.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report. the report was comprehensive and focused on solutions. however, on paragraph 80, amendment 2, i voted against as this amendment lacked clarity and it was unclear as to whether the commission were being asked to consider a legal framework of incentives for antibiotics for human use, for example with extended market exclusivity. however, overall the report was positive and it was for these reasons that i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ the eu must take action on different levels to greatly reduce health—related infections, which are putting an enormous strain on healthcare systems. adequate resources must be invested in patient safety and the fight against drug resistance. between 8% and 12% of patients admitted to hospitals in the eu were affected by infections contracted in healthcare institutions. this figure equals 4.1 million patients across the eu, this is very alarming indeed and we must not let those responsible turn a blind eye. patient safety is a major concern in ireland as well as in the rest of europe. according to the commission’s public consultation report on patient safety and quality of care, only 17% of the participating groups answered positively on whether the council’s recommendations from 2009 had been fully implemented in their respective countries. these are warning signs for the eu to review the process and ensure a more successful implementation on patient safety measures.
i wrote it. - chaith me vote and bhfabhar in that report. i welcome you to a meeting of the fhrithmhiocrbaigh. the situation is particularly acute in the mediterranean region, where the number of people living in poverty is increasing. it is estimated that 10 million people will die each year by 2050 as a result of this phenomenon. but it's important to do something right away to stop the epidemic. this report reminds us that there is a coordinated approach to tackling healthcare issues, just as the one health approach is for the eagraíocht dhomhanda sláinte. the healthcare system in the member states should also be encouraged to take a positive approach to the impact of the disease.
i wish i was here again to speak and to debate this matter. the commissioner was not able to take down the many people who were here and of course there was a lot of people in the building. 519 to 672 in bhfabhar agus mise in chomh maith.
madam president, i supported this report on green growth initiatives and, in particular, the amendment which calls on the commission to withdraw obsolete and overly burdensome legislation. in simple language, to cut red tape, or – in this case – maybe green tape. there is always a balance to be struck between proportionate and effective regulation. regulation which can often be unworkable is hugely burdensome and, in many cases, does not even attain its own objectives. time and time again, we hear politicians complaining about red tape and eu bureaucracy in their own member states. they point the finger at the eu. it is usually a case of blaming brussels. yet, when we have the opportunity to support the commission’s proposal to withdraw obsolete and overly bureaucratic legislation, many will vote against it. one cannot have it both ways.
in writing. ‒ in order to create more green opportunities for small and medium enterprises in the eu we must take the lead on implementing green policies available to businesses and not burden them with heavy regulatory frameworks. smes count for 90% of all eu businesses, and around 45% of smes are considered to have a high environmental impact. the majority of these contribute, in some way, to reducing the environmental footprint, such as recycling and minimising waste. however, there are so many more measures that smes can be encouraged to take up. this is why it is important for the eu to offer specialised green investment plans to businesses across the eu.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report as i believe that economic growth and environmental sustainability should go hand in hand. smes are crucial to the european economy and the eu should be working hard to encourage all types of smes to engage in the green economy.
member of the commission.– mr president, people with disabilities must be enabled to participate fully and equally in society and the economy. i am entirely committed to achieving this objective. the commission’s work programme for 2015 stands as testimony to our pledge to put equal opportunities for people with disabilities at the heart of the union’s policies and legislation, in full observance of the united nations convention on the rights of persons with disabilities. this commission has a clear agenda for creating jobs and growth for all, promoting fairness and creating a society where discrimination has no place and where no one is left behind. european law offers protection against discrimination in employment on the grounds of disability, age, sexual orientation and religious belief. the commission is keeping a careful eye on national developments, including in any new legislation or national case law. i am prepared to use all means at my disposal to ensure correct application of the law in all member states. moreover, the commission hopes the council will soon adopt our proposal for a horizontal equal treatment directive, a proposal put forward in 2008, which extends this protection beyond the field of employment. its adoption is a priority for the commission and we will seek to convince national governments to give up their current resistance in the council. europe still has a long way to go to achieve equal opportunities for persons with disabilities. significant gaps persist, notably in employment and education. it is simply not acceptable that the employment rate for workers with a disability is 24% lower than that for others. of course we should do more together – not only the parliament, the council and the commission, but also the social partners and other stakeholders – to fight discrimination and make the labour market more open to the most vulnerable people in society. we must offer them appropriate ongoing support to remain economically active. the european social fund invests in measures to promote equal opportunities and to combat discrimination. european law underpins this and requires employers to adapt workplaces and working arrangements to ensure they facilitate inclusion and diversity. improving access to employment on the open labour market is certainly one way to enable full and equal participation, but empowering people with disabilities to enjoy their rights fully also means that persons with disabilities should not live in institutions. the current regulatory framework for structural and investment funds has been reinforced, as you know, in order to promote the shift from institutional to community-based care. member states are asked to demonstrate the existence of the administrative capacity for the implementation of the united nations convention on the rights of persons with disabilities, and a thematic ex-ante conditionality requires that national strategies for reducing poverty, aiming at active inclusion, include measures to support the shift to community-based services. only those actions which help to establish the conditions for independent living, in line with the united nations convention, should be supported. this exchange with you today is taking place at a particularly timely moment. last summer, the european union submitted a report to the united nations on how we are implementing the united nations convention. it highlights several positive developments, such as the new requirement on member states to prove their capacity to implement the convention as a precondition for accessing european structural and investment funding. we are now engaged in a dialogue with the united nations on our implementation of the convention. in september, the united nations will provide their assessment of the union’s progress. the commission will take this evaluation into account in our mid-term review of the european disability strategy, assessing whether it is fit for purpose and seeing what urgent issues remain to be tackled at european level. implementing the convention is a shared task, shared by all european institutions. i welcome the european parliament’s commitment and the proactive role it plays in promoting the rights of persons with disabilities. this commitment has been renewed recently by the decision to re-establish a disability intergroup and to create a cross-sectoral task force. making the united nations convention a reality is also a task shared between the european union and the member states. we must work in tandem, reinforcing and complementing each other’s efforts in a coordinated way. the commission will continue to promote exchange and dialogue with all those concerned by the implementation of this convention, including member states, european institutions and organisations of persons with disabilities. this commission believes in a european union where no person is left behind, irrespective of his or her abilities, and where discrimination is not tolerated. you can count on my personal commitment to help build such a europe.
on behalf of the alde group.– mr president, the eu has ratified the un convention on the rights of persons with disabilities and that brings with it significant responsibilities for all eu institutions, as indeed for all the member states that have ratified it. in this context, i would agree with my colleague adám kósa, and strongly ask my own country, ireland, to ratify this convention. yes, i know there are legal difficulties, but we have to get on with it. people with disabilities need to be able to assert their rights today – not next year or the year after. the resolution this evening expresses the views of parliament, but because of time constraints i have the opportunity to mention only one or two issues. first of all, we are calling on the commission to present an ambitious proposal for a european accessibility act, and i am pleased to hear what the commissioner has to say about that. but we are also strongly calling on the council to speed up its work on the directive on the accessibility of public sector bodies’ websites for persons with disabilities, and also on the commission to explain in full how, in both current and future legislation, we can ensure that persons with disabilities will be guaranteed equal access and equal opportunities. finally, i am asking for support for our amendment which urges member states to work towards the adoption of the eu anti-discrimination directive, because it seeks to protect persons with disabilities against discrimination in social protection, healthcare, rehabilitation, education and access to the supply of goods and services such as housing, transport and insurance. if we could make progress here, that would be a major step forward.
mr president, i was happy to support this amendment to the directive on combating money laundering. this is a very strong theme at the national level, for example in the czech republic. i am very pleased that this proposal for a directive addresses the issue of further penalising anonymous shares and of informing who is the beneficial owner of individual companies. we have also addressed this issue in the czech republic, we have presented a proposal that essentially abolishes anonymous actions, and i am convinced that this is the right way. i am also very pleased that the european union is moving in this direction, because anonymous actions offer a great deal of scope for how to legalize money obtained from crime, or money that has no clear origin. i therefore regard today's decision by the european parliament as a step in the right direction and a way forward to combat organised crime.
mr president, given ireland’s experience of both terrorism and the abuse of the financial system, prevention of the use of the financial system for the purpose of money laundering and terrorist financing is something that should be close to the heart of every irish person. i do not have to elaborate on how physical terrorism affected ireland for decades – and there are those who still have not been weaned off it just yet – but there is also another kind of terrorism that is far more widespread and far more endemic. i am talking about financial terrorism, the terror inflicted on peoples all over the world by small, but disproportionately powerful, moneyed interests whose actions are facilitated by captured governments. our own government in ireland has long been captured and is now held prisoner by the ifsc, dancing to its every tune. this is the same financial centre which is so low down on the scale – or so high depending on your perspective – that it was described by no less an outlet than the new york times as the ‘wild west’ of finance! it is good to see something being done about it, but the idea that the european union can do anything about it given that it is a type of financial terrorist itself, well, that is a joke, is it not?
in writing. ‒ given our own experience of both terrorism and the abuse of the financial system, ‘prevention of the use of the financial system for the purpose of money laundering and terrorist financing’ is something that should be close to the heart of every irish person. i do not have to elaborate on how physical terrorism affected ireland for decades, and there are still those who have not been weaned off it just yet. but there is also another kind of terrorism, terrorism that is far more widespread and far more endemic. i am talking about financial terrorism, the terror inflicted on peoples all over the world by the small but disproportionately powerful moneyed interests, whose actions are facilitated by captured governments. our own government in ireland has long been captured and is now held prisoner by the ifsc, dancing to its every tune, the same financial centre which is so low down the scale – or so high, depending on your perspective – that it was described by no less an outlet than the new york times as the ‘wild west’ of high finance. consequently, i had no hesitation voting for this.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report as it is an important milestone towards ensuring that the veil of secrecy is lifted from certain sectors where criminals can launder money. i believe it is up to member states now to use the two-year implementation period to ensure that the directive is transposed into national law in an efficient manner.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report as it is an important proposal that will increase the traceability of payments which are used for money laundering or terrorist financing operations. the proposed changes to the report address gaps where transparency may have been otherwise weaker.
mr president, i have supported this amendment to the regulation governing insolvency law. i was present at the debate yesterday, but unfortunately i did not get to say one of the main reasons. that's why i volunteered to be part of this explanation today. personally, i consider the biggest benefit of the change in the conflict rules of insolvency law to be the fact that the new obligation to establish insolvency registers is imposed on the states of the european union. as someone who has been involved in insolvency law in the czech republic and as minister of justice has prepared a new insolvency law, i know that insolvency law can only work if information for creditors and debtors is public and if this information is not only for individual states, but is interconnected. this allows any company to find out how their potential debtor is doing in another part of europe and whether they are in insolvency proceedings. i think that in this case the change is revolutionary and will significantly improve the functioning of insolvency not only in individual countries but in the whole of europe.
mr president, up to two years ago ireland had one of the most draconian personal insolvency regimes in the civilised world, legislation that belonged in the era of charles dickens. at the time i was a member of the irish parliament and, given the huge mortgage crisis that was unfolding, the government of the day, which is still the government of this day, was forced to introduce new, more modern, more fitting legislation – so they said. as with so much else that they have done, however, rather than enact the new legislation for the benefit of the people, they allowed themselves to be entirely influenced by the banking sector. despite clear warnings from those who were trying to assist people in mortgage distress in their dealings at the time with the banks, the government, in the legislation, gave the banks the final veto over whether or not a deal could be made, whether insolvency could be declared. it has been a disaster, so much so that now the government has been forced to move again. they will remove that veto but in the meantime, what of the damage they have done over the last two years, all the unnecessary added stress they have caused? but it is ironic that the european union, that actually led to the financial crisis in ireland, is now going to create rules to solve it. well, hopefully it will, but its past history is not good.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report as i believe that cross-border insolvency proceedings need to be more efficient and handled in a quicker way. this regulation can work towards the smooth functioning of the internal market and help the resilience of the internal market to economic crises.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the amended proposal on conflict minerals. the proposal concerned minerals whose export profits are often used as a means of funding armed groups in the developing world, which fuels human rights violations, etc. the eu is one of the biggest markets for these materials. i voted in favour of a number of strong amendments from my political group gue/ngl and other groups which aimed at getting the system of due diligence made mandatory and expanding the list of minerals included beyond the four proposed by the commission. while not all of the amendments i supported were passed, amendments calling for the due diligence system to be made mandatory and applying it throughout the supply chain were adopted. for this reason i voted in favour of the amended proposal.
in writing. ‒ the proposal from the commission was concerned with the responsible sourcing of certain minerals by companies in the eu from conflict areas. however, there were a number of problematic provisions in the proposal. a primary concern being that due diligence should be applied throughout the complete supply chain and not just to smelters and refiners. however, as amendments which were tabled in order to strengthen this proposal were passed in the vote, i voted in favour of this proposal.
in writing. ‒ today the european parliament has shown that promotion and protection of human rights sits at the top of the agenda. thanks to the approval of the proposed legislation on conflict minerals, the eu will endeavour to break the links between the trade and extraction of minerals, and the financing of armed conflicts. moreover, this proposed legislation will not just be about banning imports from conflict-affected areas, but also about creating a european market for responsibly—traded minerals sourced from conflict regions. we believe that the entire supply chain should be covered and follow internationally agreed ‘due diligence’. in other words: a system of checks and reporting. lastly, we believe that every citizen in europe should be sure that what they buy is not financing conflicts and human rights abuses.
in writing. ‒ breaking the link between mineral extraction and trade and the financing of armed conflicts is the aim of a european parliament report drafted by iuliu winkler mep on self-certification of importers of minerals and metals originating in conflict-affected and high-risk areas. we need a regulation which can be put in place soon and helps the people in the relevant conflict regions. we must prevent jeopardising small mines because of unrealistic legislation and that the local people are then unintentionally pushed into unemployment, smuggling or illegal activities.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of mandatory certification from all eu importers who source these minerals in conflict zones. the trade of conflict minerals that are mined in areas where there is either armed conflict or weak or non-existent governance or security continues to perpetuate a cycle of conflict and human rights abuses in many fragile areas of the world. when we in the eu buy products containing these minerals we are unwittingly helping to fuel conflict and displace indigenous peoples in many failed or failing states. this proposal will require all importers to certify that the minerals they import do not originate in conflict areas and demand mandatory compliance from all downstream companies. these companies will now be obliged to provide information on the steps they take to identify and address risks in their supply chains for the minerals and metals concerned.
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of the report on self-certification of importers of minerals and metals originating in conflict-affected and high-risk areas. the eu is behind the usa in finally dealing with this issue and at last we have arrived at a position where we can now make progress. the legislative outcome will now mean that negotiations will now take place with the council. i voted in favour of mandatory conditions as against a voluntary code that some wanted. i voted for a proper due diligence regime that would apply and i voted to include all minerals, rather than just four as was originally proposed. while negotiations will now proceed, i believe that a strong position has been reached which will send a clear message that eu businesses must respect developing countries and the materials they import and make.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the amended proposal on conflict minerals. the proposal concerned minerals whose export profits are often used as a means of funding armed groups in the developing world, which fuels human rights violations, etc. the eu is one of the biggest markets for these materials. i voted in favour of a number of strong amendments from my political group gue/ngl and other groups which aimed at getting the system of due diligence made mandatory and expanding the list of minerals included beyond the four proposed by the commission. while not all of the amendments i supported were passed, amendments calling for the due diligence system to be made mandatory and applying it throughout the supply chain were adopted. for this reason i voted in favour of the amended proposal.
in writing. ‒ cadmium is a carcinogenic substance which, under the restrictions of hazardous substances directive has been banned in electronic products in the eu since june 2014 so there are no more products on the eu market which contain this substance. the commission, in january this year, introduced a delegated act which would see cadmium quantum dots being allowed again in lcd tvs by allowing an exemption for its use. there are already cadmium-free quantum dot tvs on the market so there is no need to reintroduce toxic cadmium to electronic products. it is vital that the protection of consumers’ and workers’ health is the priority and for this reason i voted in favour of this resolution to reject any reintroduction of cadmium electronic products into the market.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the final resolution and against the two separates (technical correction after clarification with the commission). cadmium is a carcinogenic substance (the by-product of zinc and copper production) which, under the restrictions of hazardous substances directive has been banned in electronic products in the eu since june 2014, so there are no more products on the eu market which contain this substance. the commission, in january this year, introduced a delegated act which would see cadmium quantum dots being allowed again in lcd tvs by allowing an exemption for its use. there are already cadmium-free quantum dot tvs on the market and the claim from cadmium quantum dot lobbyists that there are not is untrue. it was for these reasons that i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution objecting to an exemption for cadmium in illumination and display lighting applications. the restriction of hazardous substances directive exemptions from the cadmium ban for certain led lamps and displays were only supposed to last until 2014; however, the commission wish to prolong this as to as far as 2018. i feel a future exemption by the commission cannot be justified as the current one is already outdated and doesn’t recognise new developments in alternative, cadmium-free technologies which have already reached the eu market. cadmium is a highly toxic and carcinogenic metal and this objection is in line with the aims of the restriction of hazardous substances directive to minimise the dangers to human health and to the environment. i hope following the vote in favour of the resolution the commission will act quickly to reassess the exemption in light of the latest evidence and come to a new decision.
in writing. ‒ cadmium is a carcinogenic substance which, under the restrictions of hazardous substances directive has been banned in electronic products in the eu since june 2014, so there are no more products on the eu market which contain this substance. the commission, in january this year, introduced a delegated act which would see cadmium quantum dots being allowed again in lcd tvs by allowing an exemption for its use. there are already cadmium-free quantum dot tvs on the market so there is no need to reintroduce toxic cadmium to electronic products. it is vital that the protection of consumers’ and workers’ health is the priority and for this reason i voted in favour of this resolution to reject any reintroduction of cadmium electronic products into the market.
mr president, i want to reference the issue of paternity leave. fathers have got to step up and stay at home, and governments must help them to do that. shared responsibility for new-born babies is the key to equality in the labour market, but the responsibility will always fall on women unless governments introduce better paternity leave circumstances. women will always suffer in their careers if they are the ones to take the time off to mind children. paternity leave is a real solution to equality in the workplace, but a huge culture shift has to be achieved and governments in the eu are going to have to drive that. i am conscious that employers, particularly in small businesses, would fear the cost of temporarily losing men as well as women to these family-friendly policies, but i urge them to change their views on family life and family time off. employees being absent is a cost to business; i recognise that, especially for small businesses. but i think we are going to have to accept that it is a cost to business just like rent, rates, holiday pay, electricity costs and other benefits. populations need to be replaced and if people stop having children because their careers cannot bear a few months’ absence, then the cost to us all would be much greater in the long run. we have to take a wider society view here and not think of rearing children as something that is best done in one’s spare time.
mr president, i voted in favour of this because i think that is what the european union was meant to be about. we had a european union – or a european community – that ireland joined whereby we actually managed to gain some more rights, but it seems now the european union is about pushing back on that. in particular, on paternity leave, my wife and i had a baby eight months ago and, because i decided i would do the right thing and stay at home and help her, i was pilloried in my national media for being lazy, for not trying and for being a bad politician, etc. so i think the first thing this institution could do, if it is serious about this, would be, if someone is missing on maternity leave or paternity leave, kindly not to mark them down as ‘absent, don’t care, lazy, couldn’t give a bloody damn’. can you kindly have something put in place so that, if someone does care about their newborn and they want to stay at home and take care of them, it is recognised in here and you are not put down as a layabout for trying to do the right thing, and then your media attacks you, and in particular the female members of that media. ironic or bloody what?
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution on the maternity leave directive. it is deplorable that the eu commission has taken the regrettable decision to withdraw this directive which would have seen 20 weeks of paid maternity leave and paid paternity leave of 2 weeks. it is extremely disappointing, but unfortunately not unexpected from the new commission, that they have made this decision which represents a serious step back for gender equality and the active participation of women in the labour market.
in writing. ‒ parliament wants fathers to have at least ten working days’ paternity leave, in addition to minimum 20 week maternity leave. the commission has been signalling a worrisome eagerness to kill the proposal within a few months in the name of good legislative housekeeping, but parliament has overwhelmingly objected today. if we must do it, let’s take the opportunity to restart the process rather than sweep our future under the carpet. parliament and the council are eu legislators on an equal footing, and the eu governments must not be allowed to ignore a majority of elected representatives who want to see a modicum of work-life balance at such a critical moment in family life. this is the kind of short-sighted, counterproductive penny-pinching that undermines the fabric of our societies to no tangible benefit. fathers too have a right to experience and contribute to the earliest stages of development of their children across the union. paid paternity leave legislation is long overdue too. it’s interesting to see how conservative forces harp on about family values when they see fit, and yet show such little enthusiasm for a modest improvement in the conditions of working people’s family lives.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution on the revision of the maternity leave directive as it aims to improve the protection and employment rights of pregnant workers and those who have just given birth or are breastfeeding as well as contribute to a better reconciliation of professional, family and private life. this resolution reiterates the european parliament’s willingness to end the deadlock, and calls for the commission to play its role and to engage in a constructive manner with the co-legislators with a view to reconciling the positions of parliament and the council.
in writing. ‒ on the oral question and resolution on maternity leave, i voted in favour. the resolution condemns the commission for suggesting it will withdraw a draft directive to amend legislation on maternity leave by granting 20 weeks paid maternity leave and paternity leave of two weeks. the amended legislation was submitted by the european parliament to the council in 2010 based on implementing a 2000 ilo convention on work-life balance. the council has blocked it. this resolution was an important attempt to save the proposed amended legislation from being dumped. adequate and fair maternity leave is something everyone should be entitled to. it plays a crucial role in ensuring women can fully participate in the labour force and live fulfilling lives without being discriminated against at work for having children. for these reasons i voted in favour of this resolution.
mr president, i am in favour of this because i believe recognising the rights of persons with disabilities is not only of benefit to people with disabilities, but is of benefit to us all because of all that can be offered. in fact, if you look at the majority of people, they have some form of a disability, whether it be my colour blindness and not being able to use the tube map in london, or whether i have one leg shorter than the other. we all have disabilities one way or another and we all have something to offer. this is what the european union should be about. i come from a country where 50 years ago people were put in institutes on the basis that you would hide them from your family in case someone thought that you were the source of evil that created this. it is wonderful, in what is a very flawed world, that this is something that seems to be continuously improving and does give hope. i am 100% in favour of this, not only for people with disabilities, but because i think it is to the advantage of absolutely everyone.
mr president, i am very happy to support this motion today because it is important that the active inclusion of disabled people and their full participation in society be promoted, in line with the eu human rights approach to disability issues. it is an approach at the core of the un convention on the rights of persons with disabilities, and the commission’s disability strategy builds on that convention. we must prioritise areas such as accessibility, make services and facilities accessible to people with disabilities, and promote the marketing of assistive devices. that is where the digital strategy that has been promoted now will certainly be of enormous benefit to people who have disabilities. in the area of employment, we need to raise significantly the share of persons with disabilities working in the open labour market. we must also promote inclusive education and lifelong learning for individuals with disabilities. i note that the commission has welcomed or launched several education initiatives particularly for disabled people, including the european agency for development in special needs education, as well as a study of disability and lifelong training. we in this house must welcome all this and promote them and support them.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this joint motion for a resolution, tabled by all parliamentary groups. the purpose of this resolution was to call, as meps, for the european parliament to have a formal role in the process of monitoring and commenting on the progress of the implementation of the un convention on the rights of people with disabilities (uncrpd). while the european parliament is part of the eu framework to promote, protect and monitor the uncrpd across the eu, the commission appears to be excluding parliament from formally and meaningfully participating in the review process being carried out by the uncrpd committee. the most significant proposals in the resolution are the statement that the parliament will respond directly to the crpd committee in relation to all questions in the list of issues that it has competence over. the resolution lists these. it also calls on the commission to take parliament’s views into account when it sends its own response to the crpd committee. more than 13% of the population across ireland are living with a disability. i voted in favour of this report because it is crucial for political representatives, as well as broader civil society and especially disability rights organisations, to be properly included in the review process.
in writing. ‒ this joint motion for resolution aimed to wind up the debate on the statement by the commission on the list of issues adopted by the united nations committee on the rights of persons with disabilities in relation to the initial report of the european union (2015/2684(rsp)). the purpose of this report is essentially to call for the commission to formally and meaningfully include parliament in the review process, as well as including responses from civil society. it is a joint motion for a resolution by all the groups. the proposal for an eu anti-discrimination directive aims to protect persons with disabilities against discrimination in social protection, health care and (re)habilitation, education, as well as access to and supply of goods and services, such as housing, transport and insurance; deplores the lack of progress within the council on this proposal and urges member states to work towards the adoption of a common position without any further delay. this is of fundamental importance in any democracy and it was for these reasons that i voted in favour of the joint motion for resolution.
in writing. ‒ today, the european parliament approved, with a resounding majority, this resolution on active inclusion and participation of disabled people in the eu. on foot of the adoption of the un convention on the right of persons with disabilities, member states should translate the obligations derived from article 12 of the convention into national laws, but more importantly ensure the right of all persons with disabilities to vote and to be elected.
in writing. ‒ i shadowed this resolution on behalf of my group and was very pleased to support it. as the eu has ratified the united nations convention on the rights of persons with disabilities (crpd), its institutions as well as the member states have significant responsibilities to ensure that the rights of persons with disabilities are fully vindicated. this means that both the commission and member states must take a human-rights-based approach to disability at all levels of eu and national policymaking. unfortunately my own member state, ireland is one of the three countries in the eu which has signed but not yet ratified the convention and i continue to urge the irish government to do so as soon as possible in the interest of our disabled citizens and their families. i was particularly pleased that the alde amendment calling on member states to adopt the eu anti-discrimination directive without further delay was carried. this would be a major step forward as the directive seeks to protect persons with disabilities from discrimination in the areas of social protection, healthcare, education and the supply of goods and services such as housing, transport and insurance.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because i think parliament has a role in calling for improved rights for persons with disabilities all across the eu. we should recognise that full inclusion and equal participation of persons with disabilities can only be achieved by taking a human-rights-based approach to disability.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this joint motion for a resolution, tabled by all parliamentary groups. the purpose of this resolution was to call, as meps, for the european parliament to have a formal role in the process of monitoring and commenting on the progress of the implementation of the un convention on the rights for people with disabilities (uncrpd). while the european parliament is part of the eu framework to promote, protect and monitor the uncrpd across the eu, the commission appears to be excluding parliament from formally and meaningfully participating in the review process being carried out by the uncrpd committee. the most significant proposals in the resolution are the statement that parliament will respond directly to the crpd committee in relation to all questions in the list of issues that it has competence over. the resolution lists these. it also calls on the commission to take parliament’s views into account when it sends its own response to the crpd committee. more than 13% of the population across ireland are living with a disability. i voted in favour of this report because it’s crucial for political representatives, as well as broader civil society and especially disability rights organisations, to be properly included in the review process.
in writing. ‒ xylella fastidiosa is a plant pathogenic bacterium that was detected in olive trees in apulia province in italy in october 2013. the bacteria-affected olive trees in the region could have a potential impact on 8 000 workers in the olive culture sector risk who are at risk of losing their livelihoods. olive production is one of the apulia region’s most important agricultural sectors, accounting for 11.6% (or eur 522 million) of the total value of agricultural production in the region and 30% of the value of italian olive production in 2013. the eu commission proposed to remove and destroy infested plants, and all host plants within a radius of 100m, irrespective of their health status. this could lead to desertification and destruction of agricultural heritage, without clear scientific evidence of its effectiveness in preventing the spread of the pathogen. there is another solution, different to the removal or destruction of all affected plants. my group tabled an alternative resolution calling on the commission to consider alternative solutions that will also safeguard the agro-food sector and the environment in the region. it was for these reasons that i voted against this joint motion for resolution.
mr president, i have not spoken already; i came in here to the debate and i must say i found it extremely frustrating, like my greek friend. you allowed one blue card, two blue cards; a lot of them were not even questions. you allowed blue cards under ‘catch the eye’ which i heard previous presidents saying was not allowed. i think it has disrupted the debate, and if this is going to continue, nobody would want to come in here. i came in here, like my colleague over there, in good faith. i wanted to listen to the debate; i put up my hand for ‘catch the eye’ and, under the conditions which you have called out, i qualified and you did not call me. what is going on?
madam president, can you tell us what your policy is going to be during this debate on the blue cards? will you take one, will you take two, will you take them under catch-the-eye and how many catch-the-eyes are there going to be? i think it is reasonable to ask that because, as you can see, members are getting totally frustrated with the way things are being done.
madam president, firstly i want to thank your predecessor in the chair for clarifying the position regarding blue-cards and, as a result, we have had a very structured debate. so i thank you for that. secondly, i have been here in parliament for six years now. i think it is the first time i have seen the council here – sometimes they have been criticised for not being here, sometimes unfairly – but a debate of this nature without the commission is unbelievable. the only thing we can do is to show that their inertia will be replaced by our determination to ensure there is a successful outcome in riga. and above all, these countries, i think, have shown very bravely that they have declared ‘east is beast, west is best’. but we must respond equally courageously by having a successful outcome in riga and, above all, having visa-free travel for them by 2016, if at all possible. this will give encouragement to the citizens and therefore proceed in the path which they have taken independently. we should encourage and respect that.
on behalf of the alde group.– madam president, the reason we are here this evening is to ask searching questions about the youth employment initiative. some of those questions have been put already. they include: why has the uptake been so slow, what is the delay, what improvements can we expect, and when? i do not need to quote the youth unemployment figures. all of us in this house know that they are unacceptably high. the eu institutions have put forward the youth employment initiative as their response to youth unemployment. we are supposed to be adding value at european level and yet, so far, unfortunately, there seems to be little european added value. if we are to be successful, the council must play its role (and it is a hugely important role) in implementing the youth employment initiative. there is plenty of flexibility within the youth employment initiative: the possibility to provide traineeships and apprenticeships, the provision of first job experience, targeted and well-designed wage and recruitment subsidies, job and training mobility measures and start-up support for young entrepreneurs. the council has already told us that the youth employment initiative and the youth guarantee are not a panacea. we know that, but they are substantial and the reason we are pushing the council is because we are genuinely concerned about the delay regarding this issue of youth unemployment. as our question says, we are expecting a quick, efficient and result-oriented use of the additional pre-financing. my colleague, anthea mcintyre, has spoken about the issues raised by the court of auditors in regard to the youth guarantee. we have already had an exchange of views with the court of auditors and some of these issues need to be addressed: the fact that there was no proper ex-ante assessment carried out and that member states did not provide accurate and complete information in regard to the source of funding used to support their youth guarantee implementation plans. these issues need to be addressed but, crucially, we are expecting member states to take on their full responsibility and immediately implement the youth employment initiative.
blue-card question.– you mentioned ireland as one of the countries that apparently is doing well. other than the fake figures on gdp which are boosted by google and microsoft, etc., which barely pay a cent in tax in our country, what evidence, what information, do you have that things are growing in ireland? because i can tell you one thing for sure: for the vulnerable it is complete and utter hell. a few more specifics please, rather than sound bites that you might have picked up in the financial times, which is rubbish.
madam president, just to contradict what that member across there said, the majority of people in ireland do not agree. thirty-five percent support the current government. do the damned maths. growth in ireland may well be one of the best in the eu. one of the reasons we will be given is structural reform. the headline looks good but, behind the headline, it is hell for the most vulnerable in irish society. structural reform has meant bullying those who are least able to fight back. structural reform requires our government to urinate down the backs of our people while demanding we appreciate the free shower. talking about the most vulnerable is abstract. so let us talk about breda. breda has alzheimer’s. breda is happy in her home. structural reform says breda would be better off in a private nursing home. reality says otherwise. however, structural reform demands that reality is manipulated. reality says breda will not live much longer if she is moved from her home. structural reform says she will thrive. we know who is lying. gdp – what does it mean? it does not mean happiness, it means hell! that is what it means.
madam president, i think one of the exciting aspects of being involved in the industry, research and energy committee (itre) at this point in time is the whole enthusiasm for an energy union and the proposals made by an enthusiastic commissioner cañete. certainly, that is something that will be very good for europe – not just for markets, but particularly also for citizens, because we can help to connect europe and guarantee security, diversity supply, and president juncker’s target of being the number 1 renewable energy source in the world. but to do that, we need a properly functioning market and we need proper supervision and action, and acer has a huge role to play in that. that is why we are so concerned here because it is quite obvious that it does not have the human resources to do the task and, if it cannot do the task, then we are not going to have a combined and coordinated approach across the member states, but regulators in different member states taking different approaches. the commissioner has said to propose additional funding when this will prove necessary, well surely it is proving necessary now, and surely we can get the people. it is not a whole lot of people, but people with the proper qualifications to do the job, and to create the confidence that we are serious about an energy union and that we are going to make it happen.
on behalf of the ppe group.– mr president, the case of swaziland is certainly very concerning for all of us. any country that declares a state of emergency in 1973 and still has it in place 42 years later tells its own story. regarding the cases here of mr maseko and mr makhubu and the way they have been treated, i particularly want to draw attention to the fact that the judge who presided at their trial was the same judge who was criticised in mr maseko’s paper. that tells you again what respect there is for a fair trial in swaziland. as people have pointed out, we have an epa coming up to be discussed and approved, perhaps, by parliament in the second half of this year. we should ensure, firstly, that the state of emergency is lifted; secondly, that these two gentlemen are released, as well as other people in similar conditions; and, thirdly, that respect is shown for trade unions, and particularly for women and the poor. we should try to get them to do something to give benefits to those poor people in swaziland. otherwise we should not agree with it.
the next item is the vote. (for the results and other details of the vote: see minutes)
colleagues, just to be clear, the original text of paragraph 8 fell because we adopted amendment 1 by the epp. does that clear up the confusion?
colleagues, mea culpa if that is the case, but i would repeat that once an amendment is carried, the original text falls. i will take this lesson and in future make these matters clear. we can now continue with the vote. – after the vote on amendment 6:
mr couso permuy, just to be very clear: we have clarified the issue on paragraph 8. all votes since have been roll call. we are now on paragraph 23. amendment 6 has fallen so we vote now on the original text of paragraph 23 by a show of hands.
oral explanations of vote
written explanations of vote
in writing. ‒ i voted against the annual report on the implementation of the common security and defence policy as much of it was concerned with greater militarisation of the eu which i, and sinn féin as a whole, oppose. the report was concerned with what it called ‘synergies’ and ‘efficiencies’ of pooling defence resources and directing more funding at r&d in ‘defence’. i do not support a common eu military defence nor do i support the use of irish and european taxpayers’ money in research and development for the military industry. the report also argues the importance of defence to eu ‘strategic interests’ and the need for complementarity between the eu, member states and nato in territorial defence. as an irish mep i support the policy of irish neutrality and i oppose militarisation in the eu. for these reasons i voted against this annual report on the implementation of the common security and defence policy.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the annual report on the implementation of the common security and defence policy as much of it was concerned with greater militarisation of the eu which i, and sinn féin as a whole, oppose. the report was concerned with what it called ‘synergies’ and ‘efficiencies’ of pooling defence resources and directing more funding at r&d in ‘defence’. i do not support a common eu military defence nor do i support the use of irish and european taxpayers’ money in research and development for the military industry. the report also argues the importance of defence to eu ‘strategic interests’ and the need for complementarity between the eu, member states and nato in territorial defence. as an irish mep i support the policy of irish neutrality and i oppose militarisation in the eu. for these reasons i voted against this annual report on the implementation of the common security and defence policy.
oral explanations of vote
i'd like to say that five years ago, there were not many of us who were interested in the subject of the law. but as a result of what happened in ukraine and the russian invasion of that country, many countries have changed their minds and are reviewing their situation. it's like that in the eu. therefore, i was happy to vote for the laws as a group in all the votes, outside of one; it is without a number 3, an will part of the vote. i'm not sure i'm going to be able to do it. i'm not sure i'm going to be able to do it.
written explanations of vote
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report as our common security and defence policy is an important principle that binds member states together. however, we should recognise that some member states have different positions on military policy and therefore caution should be employed when harmonising certain aspects of defence policy.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report on the impact of developments in european defence markets on security and defence capabilities in europe. the report advocates a need to develop a european market for defence equipment and services. while at times it attempts to justify this by referring to member state and eu security it is clear its concern is for the european military industry itself. the report states that, ‘the eu 28 member states are still the world’s number two when it comes to both defence spending and arms exports; believes that this fact shows that the eu member states and the union still play a key role in global arms sales and defence procurement.’ the report also calls for eu funding opportunities for defence related projects which i oppose. we have seen the terrible effects of the military industrial complex elsewhere, and its role in perpetuating conflict. i am opposed to the militarisation of the eu and the use of irish or eu taxpayers’ money for the eu military industry.
oral explanations of vote
written explanations of vote
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report on the impact of developments in european defence markets on security and defence capabilities in europe. the report advocates a need to develop a european market for defence equipment and services. while at times it attempts to justify this by referring to member state and eu security, it is clear its concern is for the european military industry itself. the report states that, ‘the eu 28 member states are still the world’s number two when it comes to both defence spending and arms exports; believes that this fact shows that the eu member states and the union still play a key role in global arms sales and defence procurement.’ the report also calls for eu funding opportunities for defence—related projects, which i oppose. we have seen the terrible effects of the military industrial complex elsewhere, and its role in perpetuating conflict. i am opposed to the militarisation of the eu and the use of irish or eu taxpayer’s money for the eu military industry.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report as i believe there is a need to assess our security capabilities and determine where we could modernise the ways in which we arrange our security policy. our defence capabilities should take account of the concerns of all member states.
the next item is the debate on the commission statement on preparation of the g7 summit (7-8 june) (2015/2609(rsp)).
i am sorry, mr timmermans, there is a slight disruption in the chamber. could i please ask for silence in the chamber, we are in the middle of a presentation from the first vice-president of the commission. mr buonanno, could you please leave the chamber.
i am sorry, mr timmermans. mr buonanno, could i please ask you to leave the chamber. we are in the middle of a debate and i would ask you to respect the debate and leave the chamber. do i have the support of the house for that? yes? (applause)thank you. can i ask the ushers ... we will not resume the debate until you leave the chamber, mr buonanno. i would ask the services to please ask the member to leave the chamber because he has three times disrupted the debate. colleague, i ask that you leave the chamber. (applause)if you are listening to me now with your earphones: please leave the chamber because we need to continue our debate in a respectful manner, and until you leave the chamber that cannot happen. please leave the chamber. i would ask you, sir, to leave the chamber. can we please organise this? mr timmermans, i apologise. no, mr buonanno, it is not possible because we have had a disruption three times. we need you to leave the chamber now so that i can continue to chair this debate. it is an important debate. we can have a discussion afterwards but there cannot be a discussion after a disruption. could we please organise that and i will then resume the debate. mr timmermans, i am going to ask you to continue and i hope that this issue will be resolved as i have requested. thank you for your patience.
the uachtaráin, an amount that was the r ag an uasal timmermans became the laws an amount that was the r ag ard-rúnaí in the naisiún aontaithe inniu. there was a lot of talk about the law in ireland at the end of last week, when ban ki-moon received a degree from thiobraid árann. but of course, the issue of climate change is going to be important, especially today. therefore, as i said, it is certain that we will reach an agreement after the meeting with the parties at the christmas. the most important thing is that the co2 emissions target will be respected in all countries. if you don't bring your son, we'll have to agree to do it together. i hope that the g7 meeting will be held without any further delay.
the debate is closed. written statements (rule 162)
the next item is the debate on the motion for a resolution on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending regulation (eu) no 1308/2013 and regulation (eu) no 1306/2013 as regards the aid scheme for the supply of fruit and vegetables, bananas and milk in the educational establishments (com(2014)0032 - c8-0025/2014 - 2014/0014(cod)) (2015/2659(rsp) (b8-0362/2015).
on behalf of the gue/ngl group.– mr president, i want to thank mr tarabella and my fellow shadow rapporteurs for their work on this report. the proposal to streamline two separate schemes – the school milk scheme and the fruit and vegetables in schools scheme – makes sense. the promotion of healthy eating among children is an important and laudable objective. in reality, it should be said that member states should not need an eu scheme to prioritise initiatives aimed at making children healthier but, recognising that these schemes are in place, parliament should be using our efforts to make sure the schemes are as uncomplicated as possible and as fair as possible. funds should be allocated in proportion to the number of children in each country, and should be targeted at promoting local produce. the promotion of fresh produce and especially the consumption of fresh milk, which is in decline, should be prioritised. the principle of subsidiarity should mean that the key decisions should be made at national and regional level as it is here that the needs of local communities can be best addressed. i have to say that i have a fundamental disagreement with some of the committee amendments which would see more funds being spent on advertising eu involvement in the scheme rather than on promoting healthy living. the scheme, in my view, is at risk of becoming a very expensive and elaborate pr exercise if these amendments are passed, and i do not believe that this would be the most beneficial use of funds. on the other hand, amendments that we put forward would allow the scheme to be fair while minimising the wastage of public funds and increasing flexibility at national level. i look forward to the ongoing debate.
mr president, the rapporteur and the commissioner are to be congratulated on ensuring that these schemes are amalgamated. president juncker said one of his main priorities was to reduce the administrative burden and bureaucratic rules. commissioner hogan has been in the vanguard in bringing that about and is to be complimented. these schemes are very worthwhile because they tackle the twin scourges of poverty and obesity – often inter-linked – and certainly in my own country about 2 000 schools and 200 000 pupils benefit from it. and of course if they get into good eating habits when they are young, there is a greater chance they will continue this into the future, and so will their parents and friends. i would also ask, even though some people have said this is a great scheme for the european union, how many pupils, how many parents, how many teachers actually know and say that this scheme is a european scheme and it is coming from the european union? i think that is something we should be emphasising, particularly at a time of growing euroscepticism.
mr president, obviously it is vitally important that young people eat fruit and vegetables and drink milk. it is good for their health. but the question has to be asked: how is this of the competence of the european union? what next? i presume progress will mean that next you will decide what we eat for dinner, what time we go to bed, etc. the eu is ever so slightly inconsistent on this. ireland has 130 000 children living in poverty. what the european union is doing to ireland is the equivalent of a burglar coming around to your house, stealing all your money, stealing all your food, stealing all your goods and then giving you a little bit back, bit by bit, to feed your children. remember, while this school scheme is going on, last year ireland was forced to borrow, in two tranches, half a billion euros and then destroy it. it would have fed an awful lot of children. this is complete and utter hypocrisy.
mr president, we need to talk about eritrea and we need to talk about all of those countries that face corruption and where people are imprisoned, as we have heard from our swedish colleagues, but we cannot walk away from them. we are caught, if you like, between a rock and a hard place. ms hautala had a proposal about how we might intervene in these cases without money being siphoned off in corrupt ways. this morning in this house, we heard from a church leader in nigeria about how they are dealing with the impact of boko haram and how they need aid to help people who have no shelter, no food and no water. commissioner, you rightly said that we have to solve these problems, because if we do not we will continue to have migratory flows beyond our capacity to cope. it is in our interests that we tackle these problems on the ground. even where our policies fail we have to keep trying, and improving the lives of those who are affected so badly. good luck with the work.
mr president, i have been calling for some time for the reassessment of development aid, especially to countries that are corrupt, dictatorial or autocratic, and i think eritrea is a case in point. this is a country that has had the same president since 1991. it has no constitution. it has no independent judiciary. it has no elections. and there is no freedom of the press. in fact, it is ranked last in the reporters without borders index. what is the point in giving development aid to them? you are only propping up the regime that is there. i think that rather than doing that, we should actually be trying to help the refugees in the short term so that at least they can have some quality of life, and then stipulate to countries like eritrea that development aid is available provided that at least basic human rights are respected.
in writing.– we are asking the commission what steps will be taken to tackle the phenomenon of forced early or child marriage. we are faced with tragic examples of forced marriage involving minors, and we must realise that these are happening within the eu, which is extremely worrisome. only 11 member states have ratified the istanbul convention, which criminalises forced marriage, rightly recognising it as a human-rights violation and a form of gender-based violence. forced early or child marriages have terrible implications and long-term consequences for girls. health risks, abuse and the cutting-short of education are all common factors limiting empowerment, fuelling poverty, destroying childhood and depriving girls and women of freedom. during the past five years, gender equality was to have been a priority in at least 75% of all eu-funded development projects. however, last year a review showed that this was the case with only 28% of eu proposals. clearly the commission is not pushing this priority hard enough.
in writing. ‒ the proposal to streamline two separate schemes, the school milk scheme and the fruit and vegetables in school scheme, makes sense. the promotion of healthy eating among children is important and laudable – although, in reality, member states should not need an eu scheme to prioritise initiatives aimed at making our children healthier. recognising that these schemes are in place, parliament should be endeavouring to make them as uncomplicated and as fair as possible. funds should be allocated according to the proportion and numbers of children in each country, and should be targeted at promoting local produce. the promotion of fresh produce, and especially the consumption fresh milk, which is in decline, should be prioritised. the principle of subsidiarity should mean that key decisions are made at national and regional level, as it is here that the needs of local communities can best be addressed. i have a fundamental disagreement with the committee amendments which were passed supporting more funds being spent on advertising eu involvement in the scheme, rather than on the promotion of healthy eating. i do not believe is the most beneficial use of funds and for this reason i voted against.
in writing. – the proposal to streamline two separate schemes, the school milk scheme and the fruit and vegetables in school scheme, makes sense. the promotion of healthy eating among children is important and laudable – although, in reality, member states should not need an eu scheme to prioritise initiatives aimed at making our children healthier. funds should be allocated according to the proportion and numbers of children in each country and should be targeted at promoting local produce. the principle of subsidiarity should mean that key decisions are made at national and regional level as it is here that the needs of local communities can best be addressed. as shadow rapporteur on this matter, i had a fundamental disagreement with committee amendments which would see more funds being spent on advertising eu involvement in the scheme, rather than on the promotion of healthy eating. i do not believe this is the most beneficial use of funds. furthermore, i had tabled a number of amendments which would have allowed the scheme to be fairer while minimising wastage of funds and allowing increased flexibility at national level. because the committee amendments to which i objected were adopted, i voted against the report.
in writing. ‒ i supported the proposal to merge the school milk scheme with the school fruit and vegetable scheme. the merging of these two schemes is beneficial not only to school children but also to farmers and dairy farmers, who have access to a market for their goods.
mr president, i support this idea of a reserve to help farmers, but i think it is a bit sad that the european union has decided to become the world’s policeman and has sent that bill to the farmers of europe. as far as i can see, it is not working. it is all right to say that we must do something – anything – just for the sake of it, but when it costs farmers to the tune of eur 235 million in ireland and costs hundreds of millions all around europe, it is hard to know what has been achieved. it should be saved for a real crisis. we already have a reserve in ireland under the common agricultural policy, and that is 80% of the common agricultural policy’s funding – reserved for the richest farmers, because they are the ones who, supposedly, must be protected. but to the small family farm in my country, goodbye: this emergency fund will not help them.
this is not the first time i've been asked to talk about this. however, it is not the last time that it is clear that there is much to be done to achieve gender equality in the eu. therefore, it is regrettable that we cannot accept the report as a whole, but we have said that we do not agree with it, because there are things that do not concern us, such as health care, training, and education; there are things that concern the laws of the member states. if i were you, i'd want to talk to my own father, yesterday, today. ireland ranks slightly above the european average in the gender equality index. in some areas we're good and in some areas we're not too good. for example, in our national parliament, only 27 of the 166 tds are female. as a result of that, in next year's elections, parties will have to have 30% women among their candidates. on the other hand, here in brussels and strasbourg, six of our eleven meps are women, and indeed 12 of the 14 on the island of ireland are women. so things are improving in some respects and not in others. at the same time, some of the most powerful positions in ireland are held by women: tánaiste (deputy prime minister), minister for justice, attorney general, chief justice, director of public prosecutions (dpp) and garda commissioner. the european ombudsman, emily o'reilly, is an irishwoman and two of our last three presidents, mary mcaleese and mary robinson, were excellent presidents. that shows that, if women are given the opportunity, they can do the job. so that's something we need to work on. however, one area which we are not happy about is that, perhaps because of the recession, the pay gap between men and women has widened in ireland to 14.4%. that is something that must be addressed as a matter of urgency.
madam president, today wolfgang münchau said it clearly: greece needs to survive and eventually to prosper within the eurozone. anything less than that is surely not acceptable to the greek people. with a 25% drop in income and debt piling up on all sides, the greeks know that more of the same simply will not work. if the rest of the eurozone does not see what is in front of their noses, then they are just plain stubborn, they are happy to play with fire or they simply do not care. this week many of us will speak of the geopolitical importance of a trade deal with the us, and we are right to do so. yet at so many different levels we have a geopolitical crisis sliding towards disaster within the eurozone. whether your cold logic tells you that we must preserve an intact eurozone, or whether your social conscience cannot live with the impact of the economic crisis on greek citizens, does not matter, because this has gone way beyond politics. european politicians have to stop playing to the gallery, whether in brussels, strasbourg, athens or berlin. if we do not fix it – and properly this time – we are sowing the seeds of our own destruction.
mr president, in ireland almost four family homes a day are now being lost to banks. this is not happening by accident: it is a result of irish government policy that has been pursued with the approval and the instigation of the european institutions. it is a policy that resulted in 42% of the cost of europe’s banking crisis been burdened on the irish people, and now irish families are paying the price with their homes. it is a policy that saw irish and european banks bailed out and preferential interest rates offered to those of extreme wealth, while those who played no hand, and had no part, in the creation of the crisis are now forced to become homeless. the irish people had a debt of eur 64 billion foisted on our backs, and we are now witnessing our friends, our families and our neighbours paying again with their homes. this is not a recovery, not by any objective standards. there should – and must – be a change in direction by the irish government and at eu level to place the burden of debt on those who actually championed the cause of our crisis.
mr president, ireland has been rocked by another financial scandal that the european parliament should be made aware of. our taoiseach, enda kenny, was missing in action, while one man, media mogul denis o’brien, tried to censor coverage of the scandal. he sought to prevent disclosure of a deal between himself and the state-owned ibrc through which he acquired a company at a discount of eur 190 million at the taxpayers’ expense. while denis o’brien was slapping gagging orders on our national broadcaster and threatening to sue parliamentarians for using dáil privilege, enda kenny was nowhere to be found. this is the same enda kenny who in paris was quick to defend freedom of the press. at the same time, the finance minister, michael noonan, was absolving the government of any involvement in the whole saga. this is the same michael noonan who ruled out support for any debt deal for greece, but who declared debt write-downs to be normal when it comes to selling assets to powerful friends. so, once again, we have the irish taxpayers picking up the tab for corporate greed.
mr president, excess alcohol contributes to about 25% of all road deaths in europe – that is 6 500 deaths per year – and, according to research by the commission, a large part of the problem involves high-risk offenders who offend regularly and exceed legal blood/alcohol levels by a large amount. road deaths in europe at present stand at 26 000 per year. that is down from 55 000, over the 14 years since 2001. a target has been set to reduce the figure to zero, and commissioner bulc is doing a lot in this area. the commission is also currently reviewing which technologies should be included in new vehicles. i would like to promote – and to ensure that they include in their communications with member states – alcohol interlocks. interlocks are automatic control systems which are designed to prevent driving with excess alcohol by requiring the driver to blow into an in-car breathalyser before starting the ignition. this technology can be part of the armoury available to national judicial systems, and i would urge the commission to ensure that the success of these devices is included in its armoury and shared with member states.
madam president, i supported this because i believe we need to help farmers who are in crisis. unfortunately, at this stage in ireland, the common agricultural policy has become an institutional creation that has put many small farmers in crisis. the very funding that goes to many countries, and in particular ireland, has created an un-level playing field, whereby the richest farmers get the biggest payments and the smallest farmers get the smallest payments, creating a situation where you are driving the small farmers out of business and whereby only the farmers on big payments can get loans to purchase the farms of the smaller farmers. so the common agricultural policy, far from resolving a crisis, is actually creating a crisis in my country. the last commissioner, even though he is a member of the epp, is described in ireland as a communist by the rich farmers and members of the epp.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report of which i was shadow rapporteur. this proposal aims to implement the provisions of article 26 of regulation (eu) no 1306/2013 and article 8 of regulation (eu) no 1307/2013. it seeks to set the percentage rate of the financial discipline adjustment rate in respect of the calendar year 2015. the application of this adjustment rate will result in the reduction of the amounts of direct payments for budget lines covering expenditure relating to aid applications submitted by farmers in respect of the calendar year 2015 (financial year 2016). in simple terms, there is a reserve fund for agricultural crises. the total amount of this fund will be eur 2 800 million (art. 25 of regulation 1306/2013), with equal annual payments into it of eur 400 million, until 2020. these payments are to be paid by applying a ‘financial discipline mechanism’ on the direct payments, meaning that a certain percentage is withheld from direct payments over eur 2 000, and those funds are to flow into the agricultural reserve fund.
in writing. ‒ i supported this proposal to set up a reserve for crises in the agricultural sector. in practical terms this means that there will be a cut of 1.39% in the single farm payment to fund this reserve. it will not apply to direct payments of eur 2 000 or less, so at least those farmers on very low payments will be exempted. i am also supportive of the proposal that this reduction will in future only be applied to direct payments in excess of eur 5 000.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report as it is important to support the agricultural sector in case of major crises. for this reason, a reserve for crises should be established and included in the commission draft budget for 2016 covered by the financial discipline mechanism applied to direct payments.
in writing. ‒ i supported the formation of a reserve to support the agricultural sector in cases of major crises. this reserve would be established by applying, at the beginning of the year, a reduction to direct payments through a financial discipline mechanism.
madam president, i abstained on the final vote on this report. the report contains many good points, such as the proposal to address the needs of women with disabilities, access to the labour market, zero tolerance when it comes to gender-based violence and the call for 2016 to be named as the year of combating violence against women and girls. i fully support the call to member states to combat precarious work and the need to counter the feminisation of poverty, which is driven by non-standard forms of work such as zero-hour contracts in voluntary part-time work, etc. however, i could not support recital s stating that access to reproductive rights should never be restricted. virtually all member states have some restrictions, and anyway this is a matter for the member states to decide, not the eu. recital u demonstrates an uninformed and narrow-minded perspective on single-sex schools, and i could not support it. and the call for disaggregated gender data on everything from climate change to energy has no proven added value.
aachtaráin, like many of my colleagues who have spoken, i am in favour of balance between fir agus mná. but i hadn't taken it in a year. i hadn't taken it in a year. it had to do with the powers we have over them. therefore, i was very pleased to hear the epp report. without a doubt, there are many great things here, especially when it comes to political hypocrisy, the shadow of foreigners. i'd like to give the deaf more fame than the foreigners, especially if they're the ones who are young. they should be taught to be careful not to take any hard hand against women or girls. if i could do it without you, i would do it without you.
madam president, i voted in favour of this report. we have a situation in ireland where thousands of women are forced to take the boat – or get an airplane if they can afford the flight – to have an abortion in england. we are going around patting ourselves on the back – and rightfully so – for voting in favour of gay marriage, and apparently we are all equal. however, i would say there were quite a few poor unfortunate women on the boat on the evening that we voted in favour of gay marriage who actually would not have felt that equal at all. one part of the report that i do find a bit strange (and i do find it in general a bit strange) is that if you mind your own children at home, you are not considered at work, whereas if you mind someone else’s children in a crèche you are considered at work. now i think that if you mind your children, you are at work. why not include that as work and not as being unemployed? – because my mother was very employed when she was minding us.
in writing. ‒ i share my colleague’s opinion that no enough is being done to promote gender equality. ms noichl notes in her report that the introduction of compulsory quotas in institutions for women to be able to achieve top positions has proven to be effective is countries where it has been applied. irrespective of the various differing opinions on the introduction of quotas in this house, we should all agree that the gender pay and pension gap for equal work remains unacceptably high. in order to increase employment rates for women, there needs to be a fair system of maternity and paternity leave. after all, why should a father not be entitled to the same amount of days off work as the mother? in sweden, for example, where we consistently see gender equality policies bringing positive results, the government also encourages couples to take equal time off work. education plays an important role in combating inequality, discrimination and stereotyping. women’s role in society is evolving and government policies should reflect this, and certainly not lag behind society’s views on gender equality.
in writing. ‒ while i abstained in the final vote this report contained very many good points – such as the proposal to address the needs of women with disabilities in order to ensure their increased participation in the labour market, and the call to the commission to propose a legal act to strengthen the approach by member states on the prevention and suppression of all forms of gender violence, with a zero tolerance approach. i fully support the call to designate 2016 as the european year for combating violence against women and girls as well as the call on all on member states to combat precarious work and the need to counter the feminisation of poverty driven by women employed in non-standard contracts such as involuntary part-time work, zero-hour contracts etc. however i could not support recital s which states that access to reproductive rights should never be restricted. virtually all member states have some restrictions and anyway it’s a matter for member states to decide, not the eu. recital u demonstrates an uninformed and narrow-minded perspective on single-sex schools and couldn’t be supported and the calls for gender data on everything from climate change to energy have no proven added value.
in writing. ‒ i voted with my group in these recommendations. gender equality is a fundamental value of the eu, and despite policies and strategies aimed at promoting this, full gender equality is still far from being achieved. equality between men and women has been central to the epp group’s priorities, and the alternative resolution presented by the group is a good, pragmatic framework for us to follow going forward. violence against women is a pressing issue that must be resolved, and i am strongly in favour of the actions proposed in this resolution. regarding education and access to the labour market, this proposal is strong. it is imperative that we strive to develop female entrepreneurship in both urban and rural areas, through advice, training, facilitation of access and reduction of obstacles. increased participation of women in political and economic decision-making is another aspect of this proposal. ireland has made good progress in this regard, and i hope that a strong resolution today will advance that progress further. the eu’s new strategy must emphasise the key role that member states have to play in the fight for gender equality, and this resolution respects the powers of the member states, for example in terms of ethical or family law issues.
in writing. ‒ i abstained on this report as it included certain elements which are a member state competence under the principle of subsidiarity.
in writing. ‒ while i appreciate that intellectual creations need protection if creativity and innovation are to flourish, and this is the role of intellectual property rights (ipr), the impact that such has on developing countries cannot be disregarded. the report stipulated that market access for developing countries is only provided on the condition of a developed ipr system that is functioning well. however, this is often an impossible threshold for developing countries to meet. the need for an equitable and even balance between the interests of the ip right holders and public interests relating to access to knowledge, natural resources and health has not been addressed in any satisfactory manner. furthermore, the creation of an extra eu organ in the form of an observatory for ipr is something which i reject. i would rather see the use of already existing mechanisms. for developing countries, a pragmatic and flexible approach is required in order to assist them in maximising the potential of their own intellectual assets and further their integration into international trade, while achieving broader societal welfare. it was for these reasons that i voted against this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted against because the following statement is a direct contradiction: ʽwhereas competitiveness of the eu has, and increasingly will be, based on creativity and innovationʼ.
in writing. ‒ i supported this report on the strategy for the protection and enforcement of intellectual property rights (ipr) in third countries. we must ensure a fair balance between rights-holders’ interests and end users interests. we also need the widest possible involvement of stakeholders so as to ensure a balanced outcome. the protection and enforcement of ipr are extremely important for the eu creative industries in particular. furthermore, the strategy needs to be better adapted to the digital age, and we need to have strong collaboration between market surveillance authorities and customs authorities in order to ensure proper enforcement and policy coherence. this is not just about intellectual property rights but also about the problem of counterfeiting, which is no longer confined to luxury products but now includes goods such as medicines and foodstuffs.
in writing. ‒ i support this report as it outlines a balanced eu approach to the important issue of intellectual property rights (ipr) in third countries. ipr is central to european businesses’ ability and willingness to innovate, and it is important to note the complex balance is required between right holders’ and end users’ interests, particularly in sectors such as pharmaceuticals where the capacity for innovation must be balanced with costs in third countries. further, i support the calls in the report for further ipr support not only for eu economic operators in third countries via attachés and helpdesks, but also for technical assistance for countries seeking to improve ipr enforcement, as this can only lead to economic benefits for those countries.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report as the eu needs better tools to protect intellectual property rights (ipr) in third countries. many ipr infringements are commercial in nature and are often part of organised crime. this poses a serious threat to eu creativity and innovation in the global market, which require greater protection.
madam president, i voted with my group on this proposal, and it was easy to do. it was a non-controversial, but nevertheless very important, report, particularly the title: ‘an action plan’. if you have no plan, you cannot go anywhere, but you also need action to implement the plan. in my work in the last couple of years as the rapporteur on the data protection regulation for the committee on industry, research and energy (itre), i constantly came across, in particular, artists, smes and publishing companies who were very concerned about their intellectual property rights (ipr), especially nowadays in the online world. that is certainly something we need to be aware of and to address. i would like to emphasise here the importance of getting public support for this and creating public awareness regarding the consequences not only for the economy – and, as our comrade ms maletić pointed out, it is costing us eur 8 billion per year – but also for the creativity of artists and their livelihoods. that is something we have to guard against. i also welcome the establishment of an expert working group to monitor online infringement of ipr.
in writing. ‒ there are some positive elements throughout the text, particularly the reference to fundamental rights and fair trials and the promotion of cultural diversity. however, there was there no mention in the report of the unfair treatment of upcoming artists and creators, and the immense dominance of large rights holders management companies or publishers who profit substantially from an intellectual property rights (ipr) enforcement frame. many struggling artists have themselves complained about the dominance and unfair treatment from the big rights holder companies. moreover, the report confers a lot of praise on the ipr observatory, which itself has been under immense criticism from digital rights ngos and citizens because of its lack of objectivity and its inclination to side with the big firms and right holders management companies. it was for these reasons that i abstained on this vote.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of paragraph 17 split vote no 1 because it stresses the importance of sector-based agreements and good practice guides to combat intellectual property rights (ipr) infringements
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, which seeks to protect intellectual property rights (ipr) and also to protect patents and copyright. smes, creative industries, artists and others have significant concerns with regard to ipr, and i welcome the establishment of a working group to monitor infringements of ipr, as well as the recognition of a need for precise detection systems that lead to the swift interruption of commercial-scale ipr—infringing strategies.
in writing. ‒ i strongly support this report as it addresses the important and complex issue of intellectual property rights (ipr) enforcement in a balanced fashion. in particular i support the calls for further attempts to make eu citizens, and young people in particular, aware of the real consequences of ipr infringement, both the economic impact and the detrimental effect it has on businesses’ willingness to innovate, and to provide more information on identifying ipr-infringing products. without public support, any ipr legislation will be difficult to enforce. i also support the calls to assist smes in upholding their ipr, in particular by limiting their burden and costs in any ipr-related legislation. finally, keeping legislation up to date with ever-changing online ipr infringement should be a priority and i support the call to establish an expert group to facilitate this.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report as the eu’s current approach does not differentiate clearly enough between physical counterfeiting and digital violations of copyrights. we need a comprehensive legal framework, tailored to the online environment, with which to combat infringements of intellectual property rights in the eu.
madam president, i welcome the eu’s conclusion of the doha amendment to the kyoto protocol. it signifies an important step for the continued effort in the eu to tackle its emissions output. nevertheless, as we gear up for the most significant global climate summit in a decade, ambition remains uneven across the member states. in my own country, ireland, the government is currently progressing a climate bill which has no binding targets for lowering carbon emissions – not even the mandatory targets set at eu level. it talks of a low—carbon ireland, but it does not even define what that means in real terms. it also – worryingly – has no mention of global climate justice. to add insult to injury, the independent advisory council is anything but that and lacks safeguards against short-term political pressure. so ireland, as with the other eu member states, must outline a long-term credible vision for a transition to a low-carbon economy. this current whitewash of green policies is not acceptable if serious climate action is to take place.
madam president, i think the chasm we are in can be summarised by two quotations from members here this afternoon. firstly, from the left, madam dalli said: ‘this is everybody’s problem’. then, from the right, mr duncan pointed out that 37 of the 192 states have ratified kyoto; that is 20%. so there is a global problem and only 20% facing up to it. obviously the problem is going to get worse. so for that reason, europe has to take a very firm line in paris to show that we are willing to go and meet our commitments. but this is conditional on others doing the same. otherwise, as my colleague mr kariņš pointed out, we are not going to make any difference. our emissions are 11% of global emissions, so either we are all in this together, or we will all fall together. hopefully we can get an agreement, because if it is not global it is not worth doing.
mr president, it is essential that we in europe, as well as national governments, continue to face up to the problem of climate change. in 2012 the kyoto protocol, as the only existing and binding agreement under which developed countries undertake quantitative commitments to cut greenhouse gases, was amended so that it could seamlessly continue. the doha amendment creates a second commitment period from january 2013 to december 2020. for the eu and its member states, ratification of the doha amendment does not entail any new commitments beyond those set out in the 2009 climate and energy package: a 20% reduction in greenhouse gas emissions compared to 1990 levels. eu legislation concerning the technical implementation of the doha amendment was adopted last year in may 2014. we all know that, in the long run, emissions will have a negative impact on many sectors, such as the environment, health and our well-being, as well as our economies. that is why i strongly support the objectives of the doha amendment, which ensure that, over the period until 2020, we continue to have a tactical and coordinated response to climate change.
mr president, i too was pleased to support these proposals and delighted to see them adopted by a large majority: 584 out of 651 voting in favour. this extension to the kyoto protocol by the doha amendment is very important in sending a strong signal that we are serious about tackling climate change, as most people now agree that climate change is occurring and that it is a challenge to us. it is, therefore, very important – ahead of the paris conference in december – that we do everything to ensure that we keep to the 2° celsius objective. therefore, motivating businesses, motivating individuals and, above all, motivating other countries to come on board is going to be vital. if we do that, then we can make good progress.
in writing. ‒ this report gives consent to conclusion of the doha amendment to the kyoto protocol. the kyoto protocol to the united nations framework convention on climate change was signed in 1997 setting an internationally binding emission reduction target. the european union and its member states were thus jointly responsible under the kyoto protocol’s compliance mechanism for fulfilling the commitment to reduce their collective greenhouse gas emissions in the first period, 2008-2012, to 8% below 1990 levels. in december 2012, at the doha climate change conference, the 192 parties to the kyoto protocol to the united nations framework convention on climate change adopted an amendment to the kyoto protocol, version one. this ‘doha amendment’ establishes a second commitment period under the kyoto protocol, starting on 1 january 2013 and ending on 31 december 2020, with legally binding emission reduction commitments for the parties listed in its annex b. under the doha amendment, the european union, its member states and iceland commit to limit their average annual greenhouse gas emissions in the years 2013 to 2020 to 80% of their base year emissions (mostly 1990). it was for these reasons that i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ i supported the proposal on the ratification by the eu of the doha amendment to the kyoto protocol to the unfccc. the eu has already committed to a 20% reduction target under its 2020 climate and energy package and so this does not in any way affect member states’ individual obligations under the 2020 framework. by continuing its participation in the kyoto protocol, the eu is confirming its commitment to lead international efforts to stop climate change. this ratification simply means the international recognition of efforts already being undertaken by the eu. even if only a few countries outside the eu have taken on legally binding targets for the second commitment period from 2013 to 2020, it is an important bridge between the current international climate regime and the new international agreement to be adopted at the paris conference in december.
in writing. ‒ i strongly support the recommendation that the european parliament give its consent to the conclusion of the doha amendment to the kyoto protocol. it is important that the amendment be formally entered into force, as the kyoto agreement, and extension thereof through the doha amendment, plays a central role in the global approach to tackling climate change. furthermore, i strongly support the calls for member states and iceland to ratify the amendment domestically by the third quarter of 2015 to send a strong united message from europe ahead of the paris cop21 conference in december. while the ratification should be seen as europe taking a leading role in tackling climate change, it should also be seen as encouragement for other countries to act similarly to pursue a global solution to climate change.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report as the doha amendment establishes a second commitment period (2013-2020) under the kyoto protocol. the doha amendment is a commitment by member states to limit their average annual greenhouse gas emissions to 80% of their base year emissions during this period.
mr president, again i am very pleased to support this report, and again it is great to see the vast majority voting in favour. obviously the conclusion of the agreement with iceland is a good move and sends out a proper signal. one thing i would like to highlight though is that we have to be very careful at european level to balance our needs for food security with climate change, and there is a grave danger that we could bring in measures that would be counter-productive in terms of the development of our agriculture but also in actually creating greater emissions through displacement. already we have made good progress, particularly in the cap, where greening was an essential element and, indeed, a lot of measures now at member states level are being put in place to reduce emissions through agriculture. but we must not at the same time finish up in a situation where we are over-strict on agriculture, which actually leads to greater emissions worldwide, as we have seen with some of the measures we have taken in the past.
in writing. ‒ the doha amendment establishes a second commitment period under the kyoto protocol, starting on 1 january 2013 and ending on 31 december 2020, with legally binding emission reduction commitments according to which the european union, its member states and iceland are jointly committed to limit their average annual greenhouse gas emissions in the years 2013 to 2020 to 80% of their base year (mostly 1990) emissions. that commitment was determined on the basis of the total greenhouse gas emissions allowed during the period 2013-2020 under the eu climate and energy package. since iceland is not an eu member state, the terms of joint fulfilment concerning its participation had to be laid down in a separate international agreement. the proposed council decision provides the basis for the conclusion of the agreement between the european union and its member states, of the one part, and iceland, of the other part, concerning iceland’s participation in the joint fulfilment of commitments for the kyoto protocol to the unfccc. the report gives consent to the conclusion of the agreement, and it was for these reasons that i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour as i agree with the conclusions.
in writing. ‒ i supported this report because i believe that such an agreement sends a strong signal about eu efforts to address climate change at an international level. iceland expressed its intention to jointly fulfil its commitments under the second period with the eu and its member states in 2009, and today we supported this. the eu has long been a driving force in international negotiations on climate change and was instrumental in developing the un framework convention on climate change and the kyoto protocol. the doha amendment establishes a second commitment period from 2013 to 2020, with legally binding emission reduction targets which we already have under our 2020 framework. according to these, the eu, its member states and iceland are jointly committed to limiting their average annual greenhouse gas emissions to 80% of their 1990 emissions.
in writing. ‒ i support the recommendation that the agreement in relation to the doha amendment to the kyoto protocol between the european union and iceland should be concluded as soon as possible. as iceland already participates in the eu emissions trading system and the eu monitoring mechanism regulation for greenhouse gases, the conclusion of the agreement with iceland with regard to the second commitment period for the kyoto agreement would send a strong signal that europe is leading the way in pursuing a global solution to climate change. this should also act as encouragement for countries to take a similar approach in the lead—up to the paris cop21 conference in december.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report as iceland is also committed to the kyoto protocol despite not being an eu member state. ratification of the doha amendment in a timely manner, before the climate change conference in paris at the end of 2015, is essential.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report. it was a technical report which was concerned with the accession of a member state to a single convention signed and ratified between the eu member states (instead of entering in 28 bilateral agreements). i am of the belief that it is the decision of the sovereign nation to accede to international or european conventions.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour because i believe this will assist in fighting crime.
in writing. ‒ i support this report’s approval of the commission recommendation for a council decision regarding the accession of croatia to the convention on mutual assistance in criminal matters. the accession will encourage and facilitate mutual assistance between judicial, police and customs authorities on criminal matters in croatia and other member states. this can only lead to improved safety and justice within eu member states.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report. it was a technical report which was concerned with the accession of a member state to a single convention signed and ratified between the eu member states (instead of entering into 28 bilateral agreements)i am of the belief that it is the decision of the sovereign nation to accede to international or european conventions.
in writing. ‒ i support this report’s approval of the commission recommendation for a council decision regarding the accession of croatia to the convention on the fight against corruption involving ec officials or officials of member states. this accession will underline the eu’s – and particularly croatia’s – commitment to transparency, openness and accountability in governance. this can only serve to improve public confidence in their national and european representatives, and to improve the quality of governance within eu member states
mr president, the eu needs a new strategy for its relations with russia. the russian occupation of crimea, the continuous military aggression in eastern ukraine and the blunt violation of international agreements have all come together to put eu-russia relations at a crossroads. this parliament must condemn the most recently-announced blacklist banning eu politicians, including 19 meps, from entering russia. it is a breach of international law, violating universal standards and impeding transparency by the russian leadership. it disrespects parliament, but it is also an insult to the eu as a whole. and the european union adheres to the very principles of the rule of law, transparency and self-determination. we must send a clear message to russia that there will be more, tougher sanctions if the international obligations and the minsk agreements are not respected by moscow.
mr president, i voted against this report. it is fairly obvious what sort of an individual vladimir putin is – not a very nice individual –but, unfortunately, the european union at this stage has given up any right to lecture anyone on sovereignty. i say that as someone who comes from the republic of ireland, where we had a referendum on the nice treaty. you did not like the result, so you brought in the propaganda tanks and we then voted ‘yes’. we did not get the best of three, i noticed. then, on the lisbon treaty – your glorified european constitution – we voted against it. what happened? did you – the people who are lecturing russia, the eussr – listen to us? no, you did not. you brought in the eu commission tanks with your money and you forced us again to change our vote. on ttip you are undermining sovereignty. this union should shut the hell up about sovereignty until it learns what it really means. you have not got a bloody clue.
in writing. ‒ i abstained in the final vote on the ep report on eu-russia relations. sinn féin recognises and condemns russia’s human rights abuses, including the discrimination against the lgbti community and the imprisonment of political opponents and critics of the putin regime as outlined in the report. however, the main focus of the report relates to the crisis in ukraine, which is now to the core of current eu-russia relations. sinn féin has been clear on our position regarding the conflict in the region. the conflict in ukraine has stemmed from a zero-sum geopolitical game between russia and the west that put ukraine in the position of choosing to ally itself with one or the other. russia and the eu should have been working together to create mutually beneficial and non-exclusive economic, political and social relationships with ukraine. instead russian and eu strategic interests in the region have plunged ukraine into crisis. while the report acknowledges the corrosive part played by russia in the region it completely ignores any responsibility of the eu for its role in the development of this conflict. it is simply an unbalanced report. furthermore, the report strikes the wrong note for future eu-russia relations. we believe that open dialogue, not confrontation, between the eu and russia is what is needed to de-escalate tensions.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report on the state of eu-russia relations. this resolution does not shy away from hard statements. in particular, it renews the call for the development of strengthened analytical and monitoring capabilities of russian propaganda – particularly in the russian language. this means we will be in a position to respond swiftly and appropriately to any deliberately biased information that is being disseminated in different eu languages. we also call on the commission and member states to devise a coordinated mechanism for transparency in regard to financial, political or technical assistance provided by russia to political parties and other organisations within the eu.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report as i believe it is important that the parliament maintain a strong position on eu-russia relations as the ukraine crisis unfolds. the eu’s approach to russia’s actions in ukraine needs to be further developed in order to prevent further violation of democratic principles and to bring peace to ukraine.
i wrote it. - i'm on the final vote on this report. aithníonn agus caininn sinn féin in the treascairti ar chearta an duine is doing ag an rúis, like laws an leithcheal i gcoinne lucht ladt agus an phríosúnacht ar dhaoine is against reimes putin. the report is addressed to the ukrainian armed forces. however, sinn féin is clear on its position on the laws affecting the region. it is a geopolitical game between russia and the world. the choimhlint are in ukraine under the pressure to take on one side or the other. the russian and eu should work together to develop economic, political and social relations that are compatible with the laws of ukraine. the region is now in a state of disarray because of the strategic situation in russia and the eu. the report recognises the role of the russian authorities in the region, but does not fully address the role of eu development in the region as a whole. it gives a good report on eu-russia relations for the future. the conference is open to all interested parties.
we are now discussing a european energy security strategy. this stuff didn't pass, but i voted for it. i consider it a mistake that this document was not finally adopted, because i am convinced that it could have been the starting point for the future development of the energy union, which i, as a politician in the czech republic, that is, in a country that was formerly under the influence of the soviet union, consider to be extremely important. the energy union is, in my view, part of the future energy security and independence of countries like russia, which we are discussing here. on the other hand, i think that the eu should not dictate to individual member states what energy sources they will use in the future, i.e. we should not say what the energy mix in individual member states should look like. i am therefore glad that the amendments were not finally adopted, the whole report was not adopted, but the amendments which, for example, were very discriminatory and restricted nuclear energy, which i personally consider to be important, were not adopted. i think it would be a mistake if in the future, when we come back to this subject, we try to discriminate against certain types of energy. we should leave that to the states. i therefore say that it is a pity that this material has not been adopted, we should return to the subject of energy security in europe and adopt in the future a regulation which preserves the sovereignty of individual states in the choice of energy sources, but on the other hand strengthens the overall energy security of europe as a whole.
mr president, it is important that europe would take a balanced approach to increase our energy security and to reduce our dependence, particularly on external supplies. energy security is a key pillar of the union, and the report highlights a number of areas in energy efficiency, renewables and the diversification of the sources of imported energy into europe. of course the energy mix of every country is a matter of national competence. in ireland we are free to determine the energy sources used and the natural resources that will be exploited. there is a major emphasis on this, and i think that emphasis needs to be increased and that this point should be underlined when speaking to individual countries introducing energy efficiencies, particularly in commercial buildings. there is a focus on domestic dwellings, but there is a huge potential to introduce energy efficiencies in commercial businesses as well. it will be important for ireland to develop interconnectors with the uk and, potentially, france as well. i am strongly in favour of the current moratorium on fracking in ireland, and i support the government’s position that no decision will be taken on any proposal for the use of hydraulic fracturing until such time as the human health impacts of fracking are addressed. a report is currently being commissioned by the environment protection agency in ireland and we are waiting for the outcome of that report.
mr president, i voted for amendment 1. i come from an area that is potentially in danger from the production of shale gas. all our water courses are connected. i find it interesting that ms clune talks about a study that is coming forward from the epa (environmental protection agency). as far as i can understand, that study was presented at the oireachtas committee on the environment today in the republic of ireland, and i think it is important to point out that the organisation that did that study and which was commissioned to do it – cdm smith – are actually involved in the fracking and the shale gas industry. they led the move into poland. they support shale gas. so really it is a bit like going and asking the ‘lard council’ whether it is a good idea to eat lard and is it good for your cardiovascular system? well we know what the ‘lard council’ will say – yes of course, it is good for you – because they have an interest in selling it. we know damn well what cdm smith will say. they will say it is fine, because that is what they do as a business. hardly independent, is it, ms clune?
the eu, in spite of everything, has to be able to develop an effective strategy for energy security in the eu. we don't have to look at the figures: we import 53% of the energy we use; we import 66% of the gas and 90% of the oil. after the last debate, they took the energy to the countries that could not use them, like russia. therefore, we should look at other countries and, in particular, use things like lng (liquefied natural gas) to bring gas into the countries around the world. i could do much more about the energy of athnuachan, gaoth, grian, taoidí agus tonnta ach go háirithe. research is under way, particularly in my own country, to make energy-efficient films much more efficient and cheaper in the future because of the technology that will be available without research. therefore, i will build things up gradually.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report as there were a number of concerning aspects contained within it, particularly in relation to fracking. i have always been very vocal in my opposition to fracking, which has the potential to cause serious environmental pollution and damage to fish stocks and livestock. it also poses a very real threat to the success of our farming industry, the tourism industry and the health and safety of rural communities. moreover, in many places in the text, it calls for the completion of the internal energy market and ignores the rights of member states to determine their own energy policy, which runs completely contrary to the principle of subsidiarity. it was for these reasons that i voted against this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the european energy security strategy. in particular, i voted for amendments 6 and 1. amendment 6 asks member states not to proceed with fracking. unfortunately amendment 6 was not carried, but amendment 1 was, and this asks member states not to authorise any new fracking operations, either exploration or extraction, until the technology is proven safe for the environment and for workers. parliament also supported the statement that we consider fracking entails risks and negative consequences for the climate, environment and public health. unexpectedly the whole report was rejected by the parliament, and these really useful amendments on fracking now no longer stand.
in writing. ‒ i abstained on this report as the energy mix of a country is a matter of national competence. i fully support the current moratorium on fracking in ireland and support the government’s position that no decision will be made on any proposal for the use of hydraulic fracturing in exploratory drilling as part of an unconventional gas exploration programme until there has been time to consider the outcome of the research programme directed at examining the potential environmental and human health impacts of hydraulic fracturing commissioned by the environmental protection agency.
in writing. ‒ the proposed resolution focuses on the various observations of the supervisory committee of olaf with regard to possible malpractices within olaf. there are a number of worrying aspects in relation to how olaf operates. they are reluctant to provide the supervisory committee (sc) and the european parliament with the necessary information to fulfil their respective mandates. there are also very few safeguards against arbitrary decisions in individual cases or against violations of procedural rights of suspects. the supervisory committee tries to improve the quality of olaf’s activities. this has not been welcomed by olaf, but instead it has led to tensions between the sc and olaf’s management, as the latter regarded the sc’s recommendations as interference. moreover, there is an ongoing dispute about the question of individual cases: according to olaf, information on individual cases cannot be shared with the sc, certainly not when investigations are still ongoing, but also when they have been closed, and it is difficult for the sc to obtain relevant information. this makes it very hard for the sc to do its supervisory work. it was for these reasons that i voted in favour of this resolution as it attempts to address these concerns.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution on the olaf supervisory committee’s annual report 2014. it is regrettable that the sc has had to continuously point out its inability to supervise olaf’s independence and carry out its investigative function due to a lack of access to necessary information, which appears to stem from a fundamental difference of views between the sc and the olaf d—g in their perceptions of the sc’s role. it is essential that the sc be able to fully implement its mandate, and i welcome the call on the commission to take measures to improve the sc’s ability to supervise olaf’s independence, its investigative function, the application of procedural guarantees and the duration of investigations without, however, putting olaf’s independence at risk.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report as i believe that this report demonstrates the need for the parliament to have proper oversight of olaf’s activities as well as the decisions taken by olaf’s supervisory committee. there is concern that olaf has not implemented the recommendations of the supervisory committee in a sufficient way and i believe parliament needs answers to this. the budgetary control committee should maintain its supervisory procedures over olaf’s activities in this regard.
in writing. ‒ i am in favour of this joint motion for a resolution. as the report casts doubt on olaf’s effectiveness in protecting the union’s financial interests, it is imperative that parliament deal urgently with the issue. the supervisory committee must be able to fulfil its role. parliament has already called, in resolutions on the 2011 and 2013 annual reports on the protection of the eu’s financial interests, for an improvement in the committee’s ability to fulfil its mandate. the fight against fraud and corruption is of the utmost importance. it is regrettable that the supervisory committee is unable to carry out its duties due to a lack of access to information, and it is very worrying if the figures supplied by olaf are in doubt. i welcome the proposals for the commission to facilitate a better, more constructive dialogue between olaf and its supervisory committee.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of paragraph 3, in split vote no 1, as it condemns repeated statements by orbán on the re-establishment of the death penalty.
in writing. ‒ i supported the resolution on the situation in hungary. hungary, like any other eu member state, should uphold fundamental rights and the rule of law, and all member states, hungary included, need a mechanism/body to monitor and enforce those rights. furthermore i support the statement that the death penalty is incompatible with the values of respect for human dignity and freedom. by adopting this resolution we in the european parliament are calling on commissioner timmermans to assume his responsibility, in conjunction with all the other commissioners, and to put in place the mechanism that will permit the role of the commission as guardian of the treaties to be exercised.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this motion for a resolution as there is a need for better monitoring of democracy and the rule of law in the european union. the establishment of an eu mechanism on democracy, the rule of law and fundamental rights would also serve as a tool for ensuring compliance with and enforcement of the charter of fundamental rights and the treaties as signed by all member states.
in writing. ‒ i supported the 2014 progress report on turkey. i believe we need to take a positive, measured response in our approach to turkey. in this context i supported the proposal to widen the customs union to include agricultural products, services and public procurement and to create favourable conditions for continued growth in trade including the facilitation of visas for business travellers. i supported the removal of the kurdistan workers’ party (pkk) from the eu list of terrorist organisations: this, i believe, is a reasonable and progressive stance. i also supported the vote which referenced the centenary of the armenian genocide.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report as i believe that turkey is a key strategic partner for the eu and that the progress of ongoing negotiations between the two parties will be beneficial to both. however, we have to acknowledge that many human rights violations need to be stamped out in turkey and that problems still exist in relation to freedom of expression and corruption.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this motion for a resolution acknowledging the efforts made by turkey so far to implement eu rules and law. however, many concerns still remain in relation to turkey’s respect for media freedom, freedom of expression and judicial independence.
the gue/ngl group is the leader. the president should welcome the arrival of fifa officials. no one is safe. it's an organization that's going to be elected. in my opinion, when the irish qualification for the champions league was held in august, it was decided to pay fifa eur 5 million to the cumann peile in ireland to end the laws in the country. our group welcomes the proposal and the proposal to establish a chaimiléireacht at fifa. without any laws, we are aware of the importance of the initiative and we ask for your support to give it a go. they are under the laws and there is no attention paid to fifa in the treacarts and the people working in the stadium will be the ones playing in the 2022 world cup. it is said that since 1933 the number of migrants has risen to 4 000 people. the most important thing is to be able to do it, and you've got to believe that you're getting through a fire that's going to be as hard as 50 degrees, and you're going to be protected by it. i can't go to the hoibrithe fagaint because they have their pasanna taken from the fostóirí. the first of these was the "rhine international song contest" (rina), which was held in the city of chatar, near the city of saothair. it is a tragic loss of the chaimiléireacht and fifa: sclábhaíocht in that age. you have now gone through the process of selecting qatar as the first country to be investigated by the swiss authorities. there is no evidence that fifa is involved, but they are looking into the real estate and gambling abuse in the n-oibrithe immigration. we can't let that continue. with over 2,000 people having played the game so far, there is no choice but to vote again for the 2022 fifa world cup.
mr president, it may be somewhat cynical – but accurate nevertheless – to say that if there was a world cup for corruption, then fifa would win it hands down. certainly, if we are to believe the allegations of usd 150 million in bribes (which may only turn out to be the tip of the iceberg), there is a serious problem with fifa which, thankfully, now is being investigated. this is terrible, because it is a betrayal of what is called ‘the beautiful game’. for the millions of players, fans, parents, coaches and teachers who give their time at grassroots level on a voluntary basis, the least they can expect is good governance and a good example at the top. they are not getting this now. hopefully things will change, because they need to change. two colleagues from ireland, diane dodds and liadh ní riada, have referred to the eur 5 million given by mr blatter to the fai in a secret deal containing a confidentiality clause which meant that we did not find out about it until recently because of a certain clamour over a world cup qualifying game. this shows that mr blatter saw the vast wealth of fifa as almost his personal gift to give to subsidiaries when necessary. i was president of the gaelic athletic association in ireland. it was a great honour and a great responsibility, and it also carries great power. one of the things we do in our organisation is to limit the term of office. i think that is the key here today. if there was a limit, as we have, of 3 years or 5 years, then you would be getting new blood coming through. corruption, if it occurred, could not be embedded, and certainly what we have seen in fifa would be averted because, while mr blatter has been president for a large number of years, you would have had a change of guard coming forward all the time. i think this is an essential first step for fifa.
the uachtaráin, is an an-naireach what is ag titim amach in asarbaiseáin and is thar to be important to go to. the support of the international community, which has been given by many pioneers, is a reminder to azerbaijan to continue to fight for its rights. they are politically active and active in their own right, and journalists and academics among them are in prison. it's clear that they're trying to get away from the fact that they're going to be in a situation where they're going to be writing. i'm going to take a look at the games tonight and see what they're doing with the frith-dhaonlathacha. the european olympic committee has been consulted on this matter. we cannot accept these laws, but we are prepared to go to the farmers to buy the land that is now azerbaijan. i would like to thank you for your efforts in azerbaijan to bring about a strong and lasting peace and to take part in the efforts of amnesty international to bring azerbaijan to the games. they should be ashamed of themselves.
aachtaráin, gan dabht ar bith is truamhéalach an tragóid atá ag titim amach i neipeal after an chreatha talún; 9 000 marbh agus a lán daoine gan dídean, gan scoil agus gan bia fiú amháin. the tragedy is that the people of the netherlands are not able to pay their debts to the government of the netherlands. you need every reasonable person to help you. the commission has proposed a grant of eur 3 million; the united states has proposed a grant of usd 10 million; and the united kingdom has proposed a grant of gbp 6 million. therefore, we have to ask ourselves: is a chabhair being used to target people, especially a dalit group, a group that is less well-off and poor? caithimid to be ar an airdeall go bhfuil an chabhair ag dul chucu agus go rachaidh an chabhair chucu. freisin, another question: are there too many ngos working? i've been to 600 of them in haiti lately. we should have fewer ngos to be our chabhródh agus se without laws an scéal freisin.
the uachtaráin, cheapamar go raibh deireadh leis an lá go ndéanfadh tír amháin attack on thír eile san eoraip. the uachtaráin, cheapamar go raibh deireadh leis an lá go ndéanfadh tír amháin attack on thír eile san eoraip. the uachtaráin, cheapamar go raibh deireadh leis an lá go ndéanfadh tír amháin attack on thír eile san eoraip. the uachtaráin, cheapamar go go raibh deireadh leis an lá go ndéanfadh tír amháin attack on thír eile san eoraip. pharaoh, when he saw the king and his servants, he took the law into his own hands. however, there was a review to be carried out in the various countries of the union in general and the position of the commission is still unclear. there was a decrease in the amount of money that was being spent on military courses in august. but of course, that fear is unchanging; and if it is unchanging, there is no one who can stop putin from doing so. without a raid, i'd have to go back to neudrach and eire to see if we were safe in nato. therefore, there are different votes for the military forces of nato. but of course, we had to have laws in common and we were happy to be grouped together.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the final report on the strategic military situation in the black sea basin following the illegal annexation of crimea by russia. this report represents an increasingly militarised eu approach to the situation in the region. given sinn féin’s commitment to irish neutrality i voted against many aspects within the report that called for a greater militarised approach. the final report included aspects such as the possibility of mobilising european naval and airspace assets to the black sea, and called on nato to continue to develop its cyber and missile defence capabilities. the report also urged the commission to support the member states in their efforts to identify solutions by which to raise their defence budget to the level of 2% and welcomed the pledge made by members of nato to ensure that their defence spending reaches a minimum of 2% gdp by 2024. increased military spending, especially in a time of economic crisis where ordinary people are already suffering as a result of savage budget cuts, is deplorable. the militarised approach this report advocates would only escalate tensions further in the region. this is why i voted against this report.
in writing. – the irish ppe delegation abstained on a number of votes in the report on ʽstrategic military situation in the black sea basin following the illegal annexation of crimea by russiaʼ. these votes concern issues such as: providing ukraine with defensive arms, urging member states to increase their defence spending and enhancing the military capabilities of nato in the black sea basin. ireland is a neutral country and is not a member of nato; the status of countries such as ireland should be respected in this instance. while we support the eu’s approach to the crisis in ukraine, we do not believe that all eu member states should be obliged to support nato policy action in the region. since the general intention of the report is positive, we voted in favour of the final report but abstained on a number of separate votes.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this because the eu has no credibility when it comes to lecturing other countries on annexing sovereign territory. we in ireland remember nice ii and lisbon ii. we will not forget it.
in writing. ‒ i supported the report on the strategic military situation in the black sea basin following the illegal annexation of crimea by russia. as the black sea basin is a strategic region of key importance to the eu and its member states, it is important that the eu and its member states speak with one voice on eu relations with russia. while our relationship with russia should, in general, be cooperative rather than confrontational into the future the eu must take a strong position in the face of russia’s recent actions, particularly the fact that russia has bolstered its air and naval defences in the black sea basin considerably and is facilitating the continuation of war by providing direct and indirect support to the separatist groups in ukraine. we must also send a strong message to our partners in ukraine, moldova and georgia that we continue to support a strong eastern partnership.
in writing. ‒ the irish ppe delegation abstained on a number of votes in the report on ʽstrategic military situation in the black sea basin following the illegal annexation of crimea by russiaʼ. these votes concern issues such as: providing ukraine with defensive arms, urging member states to increase their defence spending and enhancing the military capabilities of nato in the black sea basin. ireland is a neutral country and is not a member of nato; the status of countries such as ireland should be respected in this instance. while we support the eu’s approach to the crisis in ukraine, we do not believe that all eu member states should be obliged to support nato policy action in the region. since the general intention of the report is positive, we voted in favour of the final report but abstained on a number of separate votes.
i wrote it. - caith voted against that report. the report calls for a more military approach to the eu to deal with the situation in the region. sinn féin is so much in favour of neutrality in ireland that it has voted against many of the amendments, especially those that were aimed at a military approach. the report also called on the commission to support the member states in their efforts to achieve a budgetary commitment of at least 2%, and welcomed the commitments made by nato members to ensure that they spend at least 2% of their gni on food by 2024. i don't think it's right or proper to spend any more money on military affairs, especially today's economic laws and their disastrous impact on our daily lives because of the huge budget deficits. i believe that a military approach will be required to strengthen the report with the laws currently in place in the region without having to vote against it.
madam president, i welcome this resolution. i think it is important that the european union speaks with one voice when it comes to dealing with the corruption cases that have dogged fifa for many years. good governance is absolutely essential in the beautiful game and is something that we all very much welcome across the european union because of the importance of football as the great international sport that it is. i would like to refer to one issue which has arisen as a consequence of this entire sorry saga and which involves the football association of ireland (fai) in my own country, where a payment of eur 5 million was given to the fai to deal with an issue that went back to the qualifiers for the 2010 world cup in south africa. in my view, what was given to the fai – an unusual payment – was nonetheless small change by comparison to the great injustice that was meted out to ireland on that occasion, because of the fact that we did not get through to the world cup qualifiers. on that occasion the issue was addressed. the rules of the qualifiers were changed by mr blatter and, indeed, mr blatter broke a confidentiality clause. so in terms of the payment given to the fai: yes, it was unusual, but that was put back into the purchasing of a stadium and, ultimately, into irish football. in my view this was small change by comparison to what should have happened to ireland on that occasion.
the president was pleased to take part in the debate on this subject. it was clear that there was a need for parliament to take a position on fifa's rules and how they were being used in their work and that this was important. but of course, it is sad that we really had no vote on our role in the end, but we would have had no figures on the vote in parliament. but if you said it yourself, you'd have been more trouble than you'd have been in that report. i hope that the fifa authorities will take the necessary measures to ensure that the administrative arrangements are put in place as soon as possible, but that they will also take care of young people, especially those who are not in a position to take care of themselves at the moment.
madam president, there were a number of amendments to this report which i supported, but unfortunately the entire parliament did not. these referred to the appalling situation in qatar, where 1 993 migrant workers have already died building infrastructure for the world cup, and also to the fact that the ilo tells us that, in certain cases, the three requirements for the definition of ‘forced labour’ are in place in qatar. i find it extremely unfortunate that the house could not see its way to supporting those amendments today. the other issue raised by some of my colleagues here today, and indeed last night, is that of the eur 5 million pay-out to the irish authorities by fifa. while i accept that this money was used to support small clubs, etcetera, i disagree with my colleague brian hayes when i ask the question: ‘does the end justify the means?’ in this case, i think it does not. at best, this was an improper transaction and, because of that, the money should be returned. given that it has already been spent on small clubs, etcetera, i believe it is now the duty of the state to step in and give that money to the football association of ireland. but we should return the money to fifa.
in writing. ‒ it is absolutely imperative that the revelations of high level corruption are brought to the public’s attention and are dealt with appropriately. furthermore, the continuing treatment of migrant workers is the real scandal. the fact that fifa and others are turning a blind eye to the terrible abuses of migrant construction workers is absolutely unacceptable. more than 4 000 workers will have died by the time the qatar world cup kicks off. the tragic cost of this corruption in fifa is modern-day slavery. fifa is not just corrupt, it is implicitly endorsing the qatari government’s abuse of migrant workers’ rights. in light of the deaths of almost 2 000 workers so far, fifa has no option but to reopen the discussion on the location of the world cup 2022. the eu cannot continue to look the other way. it should be defending ilo conventions above any other interest. it was for these reasons that i voted in favour of this joint motion for a resolution.
in writing. ‒ sepp blatter should step down immediately and be replaced by an interim leader, the qatar 2022 decision should be re-run and the world cup should only be held in countries that are respectful of fundamental human and social rights. this resolution on fifa underlines the utmost importance of the investigation by the swiss and us justice systems into the decision by fifa’s executive committee to award the 2018 and 2022 world cups to russia and qatar, respectively. the commission, in coordination with member states and in cooperation with interpol, europol and eurojust, must take all appropriate measures to tackle any possible indication of corruption on the part of fifa officials on eu territory. corruption and high-level scandals also corrode the public’s trust in the integrity of sport and our national authorities must not look away when there are human rights abuses associated to sporting events, as is the case with the widespread reports of egregious labour abuses in qatar.
in writing. ‒ i voted to abstain as i could not really care less about a bag of wind when there are more important things happening. it is a distraction. i say this as a football fan.
i think, and i know that there is a need for investment, but i think we should be happy to invest in public investment. there is no such thing as a plan; the rest is up to you. it is not done in the public sector and does not provide any investment. the aim of these laws is to ensure that they are of equal importance to us. this will have a damaging impact on people and countries that are rich in our society. i do not believe that there is much in the way of legislation affecting ordinary citizens in europe. i think it would be important to have a clear account of what happened and to believe that it was a natural occurrence. i think it should be clear that the way forward in this regard should be monitored continuously to make it more effective. it is certainly likely that the step taken to prove this is the go-to point for which a decision has been taken to grant eur 500 million to support research innovation. i'm glad you came. the commission shall be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 26 to supplement this regulation by laying down detailed rules for the application of this regulation. the local authorities are responsible for the management of the local geographical area. i urge everyone to support the laws. we are not going to fail against investment; we are going to make investment. i'm afraid i'm going to have to look at the plan and see if i can't get the key to the building and see if i can't get it to work.
madam president, recent events such as luxleaks have shown eu citizens that some corporations pay very little or indeed no tax. such tax evasion is not acceptable, and therefore it is good to see that the commission is relaunching its action plan for fair and efficient corporate taxation. i think one of the questions that we need to answer is: how much can the eu do on its own, and how much should we do in conjunction with the oecd, for example through its beps project, which needs to be fully implemented? the eu can and should take action. but i think it is crucial to remember that a global approach is also necessary in parallel with our own action plan. transparency should be core to our efforts, and i hope this parliament will vote for country-by-country reporting when it gets the opportunity to do so at the next strasbourg part-session. commissioner thyssen, you said that the commission is going back to the drawing board on ccctb, and i think this is necessary due to the complexity of some of the earlier proposals. i think the crucial issue for small member states in ccctb will be how the formula is found to apportion the share of profits. previous formulae were based on sales, employment and capital investment, and they favoured large countries over smaller countries. so i think that formula needs to be nuanced. i think in order to get everybody on board, the system must be fair for citizens and for member states. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8))
blue-card answer. – actually i do not, because i think it is issues like transfer pricing which cause the problem when it comes to the fact that corporations avoid their tax. member states can set their own tax levels – that is for member states themselves to do – but it is the fact that money crosses borders, etc. which is the core of the issue. that is what leads to tax evasion. we do need to deal with it at european level, but i do not think we can neglect – and we should not neglect – the global issue as well.
madam president, the commission calling for measures to create more transparency in corporate taxation within the eu is laudable. however, i have a fundamental disagreement with the commission using the five-point action plan in order to recommend that member states adopt the common consolidated corporate tax base. in my opinion, it does not serve the interests of the ordinary citizens to have their countries’ sovereignty surrendered or relinquished through the harmonisation of taxation. it is absolutely and fundamentally the right of governments serving their people to legislate in the best interests of their citizens, including the setting of corporate tax rates. of course we want transparency and of course we want the larger corporations to pay their fair share of taxation, and any measures taken by the european institutions to ensure that this is the case are to be welcomed. but all matters relating to corporate taxation and any other taxation are a matter of national competence, and the eu has no role in interfering or dictating national taxation policies.
madam president, four months ago my fellow irish meps and i received a letter from mario draghi confirming the presence of the vice-president of the ecb, mr vítor constâncio, at an informal exchange of views with the relevant irish committees. this was in the context of a letter from all irish meps asking that a suitable representative from the ecb attend the irish banking inquiry. however, to our dismay, we now hear that mr constâncio is withdrawing his offer. in recent weeks there has been seriously-conflicting evidence given to the irish banking inquiry on decisions on the irish guarantee and not burning bondholders. these conflicts arise between evidence given by former senior civil servants, one of whom is now a member of the court of auditors, and mr jean-claude juncker, at an informal meeting in dublin. so we, as irish meps, are again writing to the ecb to request a meeting with president draghi, or with mr vítor constâncio, because the very least that irish citizens can expect is that their elected representatives at european level can obtain all relevant information pertaining to the role of the ecb in the irish banking crisis. we spent the last one-and-a-half hours in this parliament talking about transparency. we need it at all levels.
in writing. ‒ this particular case concerned the waiving of immunity of sotirios zarianopoulos, a member of the european parliament, as part of an investigation concerning an alleged crime. sotirios zarianopoulos has been accused of threatening physical violence and illegally entering the premises of the greek public television channel ert-3 on 4 march 2010 to interrupt the midday news bulletin and read out a statement. however, it should be noted that the government at the time forced the closure of the television station. moreover, mr zarianopoulos was a trade union activist at the time who was working with the employees of the television station. there is credible evidence to suggest that these charges are politically motivated and furthermore these charges are being vigorously contested, specifically the accusation that there was forced entry. while it is not up to parliament to decide whether or not the member of the european parliament subject to legal proceedings is guilty, the suggestion of political persecution means that it is quite unlikely that sotirios zarianopoulos would receive a fair trial. it was for these reasons that i voted against waiving immunity in this particular situation.
in writing. ‒ this case concerned racist remarks made by member of the european parliament udo voigt in his position as chairman of the national democratic party. they relate to the fifa world cup in 2006 in which udo voigt spoke about a german national football player, saying that a ʽblack player wearing a white jersey does not make him part of a national german teamʼ, and some more general racist abuse. these remarks are unconnected to his position of mep and it was for this reason that i voted in favour of waiving this immunity.
madam president, i am glad to welcome this european fund for strategic investments that may help to kick start investment and, hopefully, produce growth within the eu over the coming years. the fund was launched last november and parliament has played its role today in moving the process forward and in supporting the start-up of this fund. we have put in a number of positive changes, ensuring that more money goes to horizon 2020 and the connecting europe facility, or – in truth – taking less from these. i am pleased to see that ireland has already submitted a number of projects through the eu and european investment bank project pipeline. a project involving 14 primary care centres has already been submitted as one of the first projects with the potential to be supported by this fund. some of these primary care centres are located in kilcock in county kildare, tuam in galway, westport, claremorris, ballinrobe in county mayo, ballymote in sligo and boyle in county roscommon. these will be very significant investments, not only in health infrastructure but also in people’s health.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the amendment which called for the commission proposal to be rejected in this resolution. put simply, the commission’s proposal is an unmitigated disaster with no redeeming features. the fact of the matter is that eur 2.7 billion from horizon 2020 and eur 3 billion from the connecting europe facility was going directly into the european investment bank (eib) before there was any juncker plan. much of it is a sophisticated subterfuge in order to increase the powers of the european investment bank and create new structures within its framework. with regard to the legislative resolution i tabled a negative vote. while of course i welcome real investment, the european fund for strategic investments (esfi) does not go anywhere near real investment and more importantly it does not address the gaping hole we have in public investment as a result of continuous austerity policies. critical engagement with the plan is still fundamental but as it stands the resolution is inadequate and irresolute and it was for these reasons that i voted against this resolution.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the amendment which called for the commission proposal to be rejected in this resolution as, put simply, the commission’s proposal is an unmitigated disaster with no redeeming features. the fact of the matter is that eur 2.7 billion from horizon 2020 and eur 3 billion from the connecting europe facility was going directly into the european investment bank (eib) before there was any juncker plan. much of it is a sophisticated subterfuge in order to increase the powers of the european investment bank and create new structures within its framework. with regards to the legislative resolution i tabled a negative vote. while of course i welcome real investment, the esfi does not go anywhere near real investment and more importantly it does not address the gaping hole we have in public investment as a result of continuous austerity policies. critical engagement with the plan is still fundamental but as it stands, the resolution is inadequate and irresolute and it was for these reasons that i voted against this resolution.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report as this plan will give small and medium-sized businesses the kick-start that is needed to strengthen the economy and deliver more jobs. it will lead to significant growth particularly in the areas of research and development, innovation, education and infrastructure. it is a hugely important measure that will help europe recover in a strong way after the financial crisis.
in writing. ‒ this report is concerned with providing provisions which would enable the commission to progress with its role as a facilitator and coordinator of european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) applications and the results of such applications. the egf was established to support workers who have been made redundant in eu member states as a result of the adverse effects of globalisation this fund plays a vital role in ameliorating what is a very distressing situation for workers who have found their whole livelihoods placed into disarray. in what is often a very harrowing situation, it is important to focus on positive and constructive options which are available. it was for these reasons that i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report as it points out the importance of increasing general awareness about the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) and its visibility. it reminds applicant member states of their role in publicising actions funded by the egf to the targeted beneficiaries, authorities, social partners, the media and the general public. these are all worthwhile positions that should be supported.
madam president, i voted for this report because i support the idea that the flexibility contained within the stability and growth pact should be used by the commission. in this context, i was pleased to read the commission’s initial communication on flexibility within the pact. i and some of my irish colleagues were the only members of this parliament to actively work and canvas the irish people to actually vote for the fiscal compact in our last eu referendum. therefore, the rules we voted for should be enforced and the flexibility they contain should be honoured. hence i support the idea in the report that the commission should clarify where the room for flexibility exists because, above all on this issue, we need clarity and predictability.
in writing. ‒ as the name suggests this report is concerned with economic governance and is the parliament's review of the 6-pack and 2-pack. economic governance is a matter of crucial importance particularly in ireland where such governance has proved to be a dismal failure. we are all familiar with the lack of accountability and oversight in the irish political system and we are also aware that the banks were too lightly regulated. therefore, it is essential that any such review would substantially address the underlying structural and economic problems that have dominated the financial crisis. unfortunately, this report goes nowhere near addressing these critical concerns. the reforms proposed in the report are primarily concerned with ensuring that member states don’t deviate from the economic neo-liberal ideology that it is advocating for. it does not leave member states with any flexibility to implement alternative policies, which would be pro-investment, pro-growth, pro-jobs. if we are serious about addressing economic boom and bust cycles and restoring economic growth to the eu and ireland then there needs to be a focus on equitable growth, public investment and poverty reduction. as none of these matters were tackled in any authentic manner, i voted against this report.
in writing. ‒ as the name suggests this report is concerned with economic governance and is the parliament's review of the 6-pack and 2-pack. economic governance is a matter of crucial importance particularly in ireland where such governance has proved to be a dismal failure. we are all familiar with the lack of accountability and oversight in the irish political system and we are also aware that the banks were too lightly regulated. therefore, it is essential that any such review would substantially address the underlying structural and economic problems that have dominated the financial crisis. unfortunately, this report goes nowhere near addressing these critical concerns. the reforms proposed in the report are primarily concerned with ensuring that member states don’t deviate from the economic neo-liberal ideology that it is advocating for. it does not leave member states with any flexibility to implement alternative policies, which would be pro-investment, pro-growth, pro-jobs. if we are serious about addressing economic boom and bust cycles and restoring economic growth to the eu and ireland then there needs to be a focus on equitable growth, public investment and poverty reduction. as none of these matters were tackled in any authentic manner, i voted against this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report as i think we need to look back at the economic governance framework that was put in place primarily during the financial crisis. i think the focus of this report, particularly on sound and sustainable public finances and structural reforms in order to increase competitiveness, is very welcome. but we do need to acknowledge that the 2-pack and 6-pack rules have worked well so far but it is too early to fully assess the regulations at this point in time.
mr president, maybe we will never learn, but we must keep trying. we are all in this together, and by solidarity and cooperation we can make progress. i think we saw that last week in relation to roaming charges; we have been reducing them gradually over a period of time. there was a blockage in the system, but through a united front and determination – particularly at parliamentary level – we are now getting roaming charges reduced, and eliminated in 2017. we need to tell citizens that these are the things that europe can do for them, because there is far too much negativity out there. much progress has been made in the last five years in relation to a banking union and rules to deal with issues that have cropped up. now, of course, we have the energy union and the capital markets union. getting alternative ways to finance smes, etc., has to be a good thing. they need to know about it, and i think we are going in the right direction.
on behalf of the gue/ngl group.– mr president, i get a sense that the consensus that had developed around the entirely positive prospects that the post-quota regime was going to bring about has abated somewhat. i believe that the caution that has now been expressed and the acceptance of the need to introduce a crisis-proof mechanism to protect farmers in what is likely to become an increasingly volatile market are very important. i want to commend mr nicholson for his work, but i would have preferred parliament’s report to have been more adventurous in issues that would address price volatility, particularly around the issue of an intervention price. an intervention price is a strong tool to balance a volatile market, but the intervention price has to reflect the cost of production. otherwise, by the time we reach it – unfortunately for many small and medium farmers – their livelihood is gone. i believe that the instruments have to sufficiently address the risks to farmers. without the introduction of these safety nets, as outlined, we are seeing a bleak future for many of our dairy farmers.
madam president, thank you very much, and congratulations to mep nicholson on his report. i will not be voting in favour of it. i am sure you are all aware of the story about the emperor’s new clothes and how it took a little boy to point out that actually the emperor was not wearing any clothes: he was stark naked. well, we now have a situation here whereby we are told, let us say, for example, in mr nicholson’s territory, that it will cost you 26 cents per litre to produce milk and all you will get is 20 cents in return. so what are we going to do about it? well what we are going to do is this: we are going to give loans to farmers who already cannot cover their costs to make up for this. it is fairly obvious what is going to happen down the line. you are going to have problems because they will not be able to pay back these loans. also, the concept that additional pillar 2 funds should be used to support the dairy sector will have a negative knock-on effect. as national governments use this government support to protect a previously unprofitable sector, it is obviously going to affect them too. i will be voting against.
madam president, just a few points in relation to the actual report itself. i would be concerned about the conflict between paragraphs 22 and 24, and i hope that the vote will clarify the situation. the one thing that producers want – well two things – are good prices, which they are not getting at the moment – we all accept that – and policy certainty. we have therefore told producers that quotas are gone, and they are working and planning on that basis. on the price side, all i would say to the commission is: do not do what happened the last time and intervene too late. let us be very clear on that. we need to do more on the retail side within the european union. fresh milk is disregarded by retailers; it is sold at a low price, and that needs to be looked at. i look at that in my report, and i know that the commissioner has an interest in that as well. finally, i do not think it is an issue about large and small producers, because large producers are more at risk in times of price volatility. i think we need to look at the future for all dairy farmers.
madam president, i just wanted to raise the issue this evening of the falsified medicines directive and to say that, from 1 july, there is a requirement on all registered pharmacies in the european union to have a logo so that people buying medicines online can be sure of the provenance of those drugs. we know that over 60% of drugs bought online by citizens are falsified, and some of these drugs have caused the deaths of citizens in the european union. at the moment a young man’s death in ireland is being investigated because of a product he bought online. however, i think we have a bigger problem with websites outside the european union. the commission needs to look at other ways of informing citizens, as well as tackling the issue of websites that are offering not only medicines, but prescription medicines – very dangerous products – with those who are buying them being unaware of whether they are safe to consume. so it is a warning to consumers. watch for the logo.
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on employment and social affairs.– mr president, first of all, i want to thank bernd lange for his considerable efforts in engaging with all the opinion—giving committees. secondly, i want to say to the very many citizens who contacted me that we are not deciding on ttip today. this is our third opportunity. we had two reports in the last parliament, but this is our third opportunity for parliament to lay down our principles and our requirements for a sustainable ttip. in the committee on employment and social affairs, we clearly laid out our requirements for ttip. we want to ensure that labour, environmental and social standards are enforceable. we want to guarantee the rights of member states to legislate, organise, fund and regulate all public services, and we want the explicit exclusion of public services from the deal. we aim for full and effective implementation and enforcement of the fundamental ilo conventions and the ilo decent work agenda. finally, we were very clear on our rejection of the investor state dispute settlement (isds) with our rejection of any form of private arbitration courts in ttip.
mr president, we have seen your considerable power in being able to cancel a debate on a vote adjourned last plenary. might i suggest to you that you use that power to extend the time of this debate to allow blue-card questions to be put to speakers so that we have a real debate, rather than expose this parliament as a talking shop?
madam president, this was a significant opportunity for the european parliament. millions of people across europe have mobilised and they have asked this parliament to defend democracy, the environment, workers’ rights, public services and our farming community by rejecting the commission’s current approach to ttip. this parliament has missed that opportunity. this report, and the actions of the office of the president and of the larger groups, have positioned the european parliament not as the democratic voice of the people of europe but rather as a very expensive rubber stamp for the commission’s agenda. make no mistake about it: opposition to the ttip deal that will undermine the very fabric of our communities is only going to grow in the time ahead. meps have now got to decide whether we are on the side of the people of europe or on the side of vested corporate interests. i know what side i am on, and the people of ireland and the people of europe are going to be looking very closely to see what side other meps are on.
madam president, thank you very much for the opportunity to speak here. several meps from the epp speak about lies: mr pabriks spoke about lies, mr caspary spoke about half-truths and then we had a spanish mep, mr gonzález, talking about a million new jobs. well, if we want to talk about the truth, let us tell the truth. our minister with responsibility for this area, richard bruton, invited meps to a breakfast to discuss this issue. in the invitation he informed us that this agreement, if successful, would lead to an increase in growth of 0.5% gdp per year above what is now predicted. i asked him whether this was over one year – now remember we are talking about telling lies and telling the truth here – and he said yes. i asked him twice if it was over one year and he said yes. i asked him a third time and he said yes. that is a lie: the predicted growth is between now and 2027. it is not definite; it is the most ambitious scenario. stick to the truth. lies will not work here, richard.
madam president, something is puzzling me about this debate. firstly, as mr schwab said, we have had free-trade agreements, which obviously are about economic growth and progress. yet we have been led to believe that a free-trade agreement with the biggest power in the world would actually not create jobs and growth. this is mindboggling. secondly, we are asked to reject ttip now as if it were a fait accompli, when in actual fact it says right up there: negotiations for ttip. that is no fait accompli – it is a work in progress. so let us have faith in our negotiators, let them deal with the issues we are concerned about. in my country, we are very concerned, as mr nicholson pointed out, that maybe agriculture might become a bargaining chip. we do not want that to happen. isds is a big issue, but commissioner malmström’s proposals are a major step forward compared with what we have had in the past. i say, like mature people, let us vote on ttip when we have ttip to vote on.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report. the rapporteur of the report was a member of my parliamentary group, the gue/ngl. the report was a ‘codification’ report – a simple procedural move to roll new existing rules that are currently in the form of a council regulation and amendments into legislation. politically the regulation relates to the commission having control over the eu’s interaction with the world trade organisation. however, even if i may oppose any aspect of the content of the regulation, it is already in place. there was nothing in this report that included any of the content of the regulation. it was purely technical – a new act to supersede existing rules, regulations and amendments without any change to the content.
in writing. ‒ this vote was merely concerned with technical matters and it was not connected to the content but was instead concerned with codification. this is important as if you do not codify the text the former several amended versions of the texts stay. codification, is, in a nutshell a simplification. any proposal that provides greater legal clarity and transparency should be welcomed as it is the complex nature of such texts which frequently leads to unnecessary legal challenges often at the taxpayers’ expense politically the regulation relates to the commission having control over the eu’s interaction with the world trade organisation. however, even if i may oppose any aspect of the content of the regulation, it is already in place. there was nothing in this report that included any of the content of the regulation. it was purely technical – and therefore, i voted in favour because it increases transparency and leads to better legislation.
i wrote it. - chaith and bhfabhar voted on this report. it was reported by my group, gue/ngl. the drafting report was a step in the procedure for the rules currently in force in the netherlands and was read by the council on the basis of the draft law. politically, it is related to the regulation of the laws of the commission and has the power to make laws concerning the laws of the eu and the eagraíocht dhomhanda trádála. it is without doubt, that the law is already in force. there was no evidence in the report that this was the case. the technical report was an act to replace the rules currently in force; an act not to be in the form of regulations and leasuithe air, gaining any change in subject matter.
in writing. ‒ this vote was merely concerned with technical matters and it was not connected to the content but was instead concerned with codification. this is important as if you do not codify the text the former several amended versions of the texts stay. codification, is, in a nutshell a simplification. any proposal that provides greater legal clarity and transparency should be welcomed as it’s the complex nature of such texts which frequently leads to unnecessary legal challenges often at the taxpayers’ expense therefore, i voted in favour because it increases transparency and better legislation.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report as fishing vessels flying the flag of venezuela have been authorised to operate in the exclusive economic zone (eez) of the french overseas department of guiana for several decades. in light of this fact, the eu has decided to grant fishing authorisations to a limited number of fishing vessels flying the flag of the bolivarian republic of venezuela. these vessels will be entitled to fish in that part of the exclusive economic zone off the coast of french guiana that lies more than 12 nautical miles from the base lines.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report as this shows a solid implementation of the eu’s annual budget. the surplus will be recorded as revenue in the 2015 budget in the amount of eur 1 435 million. it is welcome to note that the budgeting of this surplus will diminish the national gni contributions of member states to the eu budget.
in writing. ‒ i supported this draft amending budget which covers the budgeting of the surplus of the previous year. the implementation of the budget year 2014 shows a surplus of eur 1 435 million. this surplus will diminish accordingly the contribution of member states to the financing of the 2015 eu budget.
in writing. ‒ i supported the proposal to mobilise the eu solidarity fund for applications concerning floods in romania, bulgaria and italy for a total of eur 66 505 850. this is an example of eu solidarity in action, and it is very positive to see such widespread support for this proposal in the european parliament. however i would echo the resolution’s regret that there is a general tendency in council not to honour its commitments to countries which have experienced major disasters and to fulfil the criteria of the eu solidarity fund by taking money away from other programmes rather than mobilising additional resources via special instruments. i am glad to see, however, that the council did not follow this approach for this amending budget.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this draft amending budget which accompanies the proposal for the mobilisation of the solidarity fund for romania, bulgaria and italy. the four natural disasters together amount to eur 66.5 million. as the solidarity fund is a special instrument, the appropriations should be budgeted outside the corresponding mff ceilings.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour as an act of solidarity to the citizens of romania, bulgaria and italy.
in writing. ‒ i supported the proposal to mobilise the eu solidarity fund for applications concerning floods in romania, bulgaria and italy for a total of eur 66 505 850. the purpose of this fund is to provide rapid, efficient and flexible responses to emergency situations and to show solidarity with the population of regions struck by disasters. while the value of damage for all applications was below the ‘major disaster’ threshold, damage was widespread across large regions of the countries affected, with direct damage to public and private infrastructure, private homes, businesses and in agriculture, and all were eligible under ‘regional disaster’ criteria.
in writing. ‒ this report represents the first time this year that the european union solidarity fund is used. i voted in favour of this report. the floods in romania, bulgaria and italy have caused enormous damage. the mobilisation of this fund demonstrates the eu’s show of solidarity with the populations affected by these disasters and allocates a significant amount of money to the concerned regions.
madam president, i am very happy to support the objective of providing a single ticketing service across europe. we are aiming to simplify travel across europe when we operate in a single market. therefore passengers should be able to purchase and to plan eu-wide travel with digital ticketing in the future. one way is to advance one ticket or travel card for all modes of transport across the eu. currently, when we think about it, passengers face a very complicated procedure, purchasing bus or train tickets. however, multimodal integrated ticketing could at least simplify the system and make ticketing much more efficient. it opens up the opportunity, of course, for a much more competitive transport system. a single user-friendly european travel card could be topped up via digital payments, for example, and used to plan a variety of journeys. it would create the opportunity for transport to offer better deals for consumers and tourists.
in writing. ‒ the aim of this report is to promote various modes of information provision on diverse transport methods using innovative forms of communication. the report is seeking to promote a shift towards the use of public transport, including options such as bike hire, park-and-ride and car sharing. the report included a number of important provisions such as fair, inclusive and equal access to free or low-cost online services for all travellers. furthermore, it sought to ensure that clear and transparent protections of passengers’ rights were applicable for all transport modes. it was for these reasons that i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because i believe multimodal integrated ticketing is of benefit to ordinary citizens.
in writing. ‒ i was very pleased to support the report on delivering multimodal integrated ticketing in europe. better integration of various modes of transport by means of multimodal integrated ticketing is an important step towards realising this aim. an important facet of this is that users should get one ticket per multimodal journey and that integrated ticketing systems should have comprehensive, easily accessible, reliable and real-time information for travellers. by making it easy to use multimodal ticketing systems more people will hopefully use public transport. i particularly support the report´s call for the commission to respond to the parliament's resolution for a charter of passengers’ rights. i ask the commission to bring forward a proposal for such a charter to address concerns regarding cross border passenger rights and to include a dedicated section on multimodal travel by 2017.
in writing. ‒ i voted for this report, as mobility is a key part of modern life and travelling is not confined within national borders. an eu citizen should be able to obtain information, plan and obtain tickets within an integrated system. in today’s modernised world this proposal is practical, efficient and convenient.
in writing. ‒ i supported this report as the further integration of the different modes of transport will make mobility more efficient and user-friendly. it will also facilitate and promote multimodal travel by providing online information, electronic booking and payment systems which integrate all means of transport.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report as i believe that for the taxe committee to be effective it needs to have a realistic timeframe to complete its activities. this involves hearings with stakeholders, national parliaments and delegations to certain member states. the rapporteurs should be given the time to come up with a fair and balanced final report.
in writing. ‒ i voted to support draft amending budget no 1/2015 regarding the european fund for strategic investments (efsi) which makes the necessary budgetary changes to provide for the necessary reallocation of funds for efsi for 2015. it is positive that efsi was quickly agreed and adopted by all involved, however the redeployment of funds to horizon 2020 and the connecting europe facility is regrettable given the important impact of both programmes for growth and jobs in the eu. nonetheless these figures were improved at trialogue from the original proposal from the commission and i welcome the additional eur 1 000 million which will be financed through the global mff margin.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which represents the budgetary aspect of the efsi agreement for 2015. these budgetary changes are necessary for the budget nomenclature for efsi (by creating the new budget lines) and they will provide for the necessary resources for provisioning the efsi guarantee fund in 2015.
in writing. ‒ this draft amending budget is linked to efsi. the report’s purposes are to budgetise the resources needed to implement the european fund for strategic investments in the 2015 budget.
in writing. ‒ i was pleased to support this report on responding to migratory pressures, which aims to bolster eu resources to manage migration and refugee flows, particularly following the recent tragedies in the mediterranean. up to now the national budgets of our southern member states have borne the brunt of responding to the migration crisis, so i am pleased to see an eu response. increased migration will certainly continue to be a huge issue for europe into the future, and if not managed properly now, we could see knock-on effects in other areas. parliament previously called for increases in these budgetary areas in 2014, and although the institutions all agreed to this much-needed increase, it is regrettable that such proposed increases are small, given the scale of the task at hand. i would also encourage the council to adopt a european approach to what is a european problem as soon as possible.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this draft amending budget which manages migration and refugee flows and increases commitments and payment appropriations. reinforcement is proposed for three agencies (frontex, easo and europol), the asylum, migration and integration fund (amif) and the internal security fund (isf).
madam president, i was glad to support this report from my colleague mr jim nicholson. it comes at a crucial time. the global dairy index is now at 634, which is just less than half of what it was in 2014. it is just 61 points below its lowest ever point, which occurred in 2009, and for an irish dairy farmer with 75 cows that equates to a loss of approximately eur 35 000 per year. as i speak, people in the town of monaghan, ireland, are now paying 29 cents per litre for milk, but that is going in the wrong direction. that is why i was pleased to see such strong support in this parliament for stating that the existing safety net measures alone – such as public intervention and private storage aids – were not sufficient tools for addressing the persistent volatility or indeed for any crisis in the milk sector. i am calling on commissioner phil hogan to implement more responsive and realistic safety net measures, and to ensure that the intervention price must better reflect real production costs and real market prices.
madam president, the ending of the quota for milk production after 30 years presents a challenge for the dairy industry, but also a wonderful opportunity. it has been met with a positive reaction in ireland, where farmers, as we speak, are looking at investing and upgrading their systems to improve and increase production. i welcomed the report and was happy to support it, particularly given the fact that it recognises the importance of the dairy sector for feeding our own people and particularly for exports. it also looks at the implementation of measures to address price volatility, which are a point of major concern to those farmers who are in the business of producing milk. i think that is somewhere where the commissioner can – and should – make a clear statement, because there is uncertainty there, particularly for farmers who want to invest but whose relationship with their bank is not as good as it could be in many cases. certainly, certainty in the area of intervention would help.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the report as there was no tangible obligations contained within which would result in the irish dairy sector prospering in coming years; or see smaller family farms supported during turbulent times. the report should have been much more adventurous in its proposals in terms of supports to farmers affected by extreme price volatility. farmers deserve a fair price for their produce and an ongoing situation whereby milk is often a loss-making product is unsustainable. there are ways in which the commission can and should be more proactive in offering support. for example, an intervention price can be a strong tool to balance a market but the intervention price has to reflect the cost of production. much of the positive predications of what the post-quota era would mean for milk farmers have abated in recent times. it is clear that many in the dairy sector are finding the increasing price volatility difficult to manage and if action is not taken many small farmers will be forced out of the sector. they need more than platitudes from the european commission.
in writing. ‒ as shadow rapporteur of this file, i worked hard at trying to have the interests of small farmers reflected within the provisions. however, i had no option but to vote against the report as there was no tangible obligations contained within which would result in the irish dairy sector prospering in coming years. and of course, while i commend jim nicolson for his work on the report, i would have preferred if the report was more adventurous in its proposals in terms of supports to farmers affected by extreme price volatility. farmers deserve a fair price for their produce and an ongoing situation whereby milk is often a loss-making product is unsustainable. much of the positive predications of what the post-quota era would mean for milk farmers have abated in recent times. it is clear that many in the dairy sector are finding the increasing price volatility difficult to manage and if action is not taken many small farmers will be forced out of the sector. i have called on the commission to introduce strengthened supports for dairy farmers who are dealing with increased price volatility in their sector and in the coming months.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour because i believe realistic supports, reflecting the cost of production must be put in place.
in writing. ‒ prospects for the eu dairy sector – review of the implementation of the dairy package outlines the opportunities and threats to the sector in the medium to long term in the context of the new era for milk producers post quota abolition. the report highlights the importance of adequate market measures for the sector, which i support.
in writing. ‒ prospects for the eu dairy sector – review of the implementation of the dairy package, outlines the opportunities and threats to the sector in the medium to long term in the context of the new era for milk producers post quota abolition. the report highlights the important of adequate market measures for the sector, which i support.
i wrote it. ‒ my colleague, matt carthy, was asked to report on this matter, so that the provisions in the report could be taken into account by small farmers. finally, however, we had no choice but to vote against the report because we had no intention of making it a sector that would improve in the years ahead; we had no intention of making it a small family business. the right of farmers to obtain their fruits and vegetables is not sustainable and should not be taken for granted. there are ways in which the commission could be more effective; for example, it is strongly urged to price the market in a coordinated way, but to price the market without any production costs. it is now clear that many farmers would have liked to have been attacked at the moonlight on the morning of august 31st if they were included in the reports of action to protect small farmers, and sinn féin would not be willing to support them. we will continue to urge the commission to act in a responsible manner so that the laws in the sector can reach their full potential.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report on public-private partnerships (ppps)and the impact of eu trade and investment policy. unfortunately, this parliament has adopted a very skewed and deceptive text which does not recognise the serious risks and problems ppps have for the delivery of public services to citizens. i am particularly disappointed that they include water supply as a target area for an increased participation of private companies. water supply is a natural monopoly. private companies prioritise profit for shareholders whilst public operators are more appropriate to provide safe, clean and accessible water to citizens. in my report on the right2water i have underlined the need for the human right to water to be enshrined in eu legislation so that no operator can put profit before provision of water services to citizens. private involvement in the water sector has a record of failure across the world and should not be promoted by the eu.
in writing. ‒ i voted for this report but would also like to record my concerns regarding the use of public private partnerships. in this context i am pleased to see the statement that eu trade policy should neither encourage nor discourage the sovereign decision on whether or not to use ppps - but that once a decision has been made by a sovereign state that the eu has an obligation to ensure that smes and companies of all sizes have the best possible access to procurement markets in the partner countries. this policy must be in line with the principles of openness, participation and accountability. i also believe we need to ensure strong legislation in order to prevent land grabbing and that where possible we strengthen corporate social responsibility and ensure the promotion of human rights and gender equality in all our actions.
i wrote it. ‒ chaith voted against the report on the private/public partnership and the impact of eu trade and investment policies. unfortunately, there is no recognition by the parliament of the problems of private/public partnership and the need for public services for citizens. i am particularly pleased that the water sector has been selected as a target area for further participation by private companies. the natural monoplace is the solathar uisce. private companies take over the management of the stockholders, while public companies are more concerned with the safety of the houses and the cleanliness of the citizens. i've been reading with my colleague, lynn boylan, about right2water, which is a good place to start on a path where the human heart should be compliant with eu legislation so that we don't have to work on any of the big projects to provide water to citizens. the back of the tape is a deeply flawed sound as far as private companies are concerned, and the laws in the water sector are not the same without the eu's chur chun cinn.
in writing. ‒ this own initiative report aims to encourage the commission to present a legislative proposal aimed at the revision of the aid scheme for the fruit and vegetable sector. however, there were some problematic aspects to this report specifically recital ae, paragraphs 63 and 71 which welcomed the school milk and school fruit schemes, and the accompanying propaganda measures, as being beneficial for the fruit and vegetable sector. eu funds should not be spent on advertising eu involvement in the scheme as opposed to the promotion of healthy eating. however, there were a number of positive aspects to the report including §51 which called on third countries to adhere to eu’s environmental, social , health, food safety and animal welfare standards if they export to the eu. it was for this reason that i abstained.
in writing. ‒ this own initiative report aims to encourage the commission to present a legislative proposal aimed at the revision of the aid scheme for the fruit and vegetable sector. however, there were some problematic aspects to this report specifically recital ae, paragraphs 63 and 71 which welcomed the school milk and school fruit schemes, and the accompanying propaganda measures, as being beneficial for the fruit and vegetable sector. i was shadow rapporteur on the school milk and fruit scheme and i specifically highlighted that eu funds should not be spent on advertising eu involvement in the scheme as opposed to the promotion of healthy eating. however, there were a number of positive aspects to the report including §51 which called on third countries to adhere to eu’s environmental, social , health, food safety and animal welfare standards if they export to the eu. it was for this reason that i tabled an abstention.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report on the evolution of the fruit and vegetable sector since 2007. this reform helped strengthen the role of producer organisations and ‘the rate of organisations’ increased from 31% in 2004 to 43% in 2010. total eu financial assistance has increased from €380 million per annum to €671 million in 2010. however there was a decline of 6% in the fruit and vegetable production in the eu with a long term decline in fruit and vegetable consumption. in order to reverse this decline i fully support the proposal that producer organisations be strengthened and that the commission needs to intensify its efforts to protect farmers from unfair trading practices by large retailers. we must ensure that negotiating power is not strongly concentrated in the hands of the retailers.
in writing. ‒ the fruit and vegetable sector since the 2007 reform recognises that this reform has strengthened the market presence of producer organisations and highlights areas where improvements are needed.
i wrote it. ‒ the aim of the report is to encourage the commission to propose a legislative act to initiate a review of the scheme for the fruit and vegetables sector. there were a few rud fadhbach in the report however, especially aithris ae. , mír 63 agus mír 71, a chuir fáilte roimh an scéim bhainne agus torthaí do scoileanna agus an bholscaireacht a tháinig dlíthe a dúirt go mbeidh sé buntáisteach don earnáil torthaí agus glasraí. (the government has been asked to approve the scheme for the distribution of fruits and vegetables to schools and to the public.) my colleague mr scáthraportir was informed of this report in august and was pleased to hear that the eu should use advertising based on a scheme set up by eu law in a place where advertising should be done safely. of course, there are many things to be done; in particular, article 51 requires other countries to comply with eu standards on environmental, social, health and safety legislation, but they are trying to export to the eu. for the reasons stated above, they are not voting.
the commission, the council and the european parliament have agreed to the report. is maith an rud is for example go ndéanfar gach iarracht go mbeadh baint níos mó mó agus teagmháil níos mó ag daoine a dhéanann inves invesíocht i gcomhlachtaí laws an gcomhlacht sin. go romhinic, deanann daoine infheistíocht i gcomhlachtaí agus ansin deanann siad dearmad air. i'm not sure what you mean. i don't know much about power, but i'm not even looking at air. is fiú freisin brú a chur ar chomhlachtaí go n-íocfadh siad a gcuid féaráilte de cháin agus tá multaí déanta faoi sin, ach ag an am céanna is fiú éisteacht leis an méid a dúirt an tuasal schwab; nach ndéanfaidh report tír réir tíre a dóthain chun an sprioc sin a bhaint amach. is fiú fiú freisin brú a chur ar chomhlachtaí go n-íocfadh siad a gcuid féaráilte de cháin agus tá multaí déanta faoi sin, ach ag an am céanna is fiú éisteacht leis an méid a dúirt an tuasal schwab; nach ndéanfaidh report tír réir tíre a dóthain chun an sprioc sin a bhaint amach. the commission therefore has to hear the voice in parliament and be able to act accordingly.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on wednesday, 8 july 2015. written statements (rule 162)
the next item is the report by ivo belet, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, on the proposal for a decision of the european parliament and of the council concerning the establishment and operation of a market stability reserve for the union greenhouse gas emission trading scheme and amending directive 2003/87/ec (com(2014)0020 – c7—0016/2014 – 2014/0011(cod)) (a8—0029/2015).
mr president, this is a very important proposal, and certainly my colleague ivo belet has done tremendous work. i saw him in action, and he has come up with a very sensible solution, which i think will be very helpful to commissioner cañete when he makes his report on 15 july. certainly, we have two targets: one is to reduce emissions in the european union by 40% by 2030, and the other is to grow industry by 20% of gdp. they are not mutually incompatible – in fact they can both be achieved by sensible proposals. certainly, with developing technology, and particularly with the proposals here on ets and the very sensible 2019 starting date, we can make a lot of progress. i am the rapporteur for the committee on industry, research and energy (itre) on climate change in paris, and hopefully this will lead to a successful summit.
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on employment and social affairs.– mr president, the committee on employment and social affairs (empl) wanted to have a particular emphasis in the budget on job creation measures, jobs and growth strategy, which we all support, and the three e’s: enterprise, employment and entrepreneurship. how are we going to do that? supporting smes is where we would like to see a focus, because smes are the backbone of all our economies, being 90% of businesses across europe. particularly, the area of microfinance is something that can really be established to support smes because governments, commissions, councils do not actually create jobs, but they certainly can contribute to creating the environment within which jobs can flourish. of course, within the employment area, youth unemployment is a very serious issue. we are continuing with this debate here, and we want to see a strong focus on this in the budget opinion of this parliament, and also, indeed, on the need to re-skill, particularly in fields where job seekers can benefit, like the it sector and retrofitting of buildings. there is huge potential there, and the empl committee wants to see a strong focus in these areas in the opinion.
the gue/ngl group is the leader. the president would like to thank mr fernandes for all the work he has done in this report. is maith an rud is go bhfuil roinnt pointí comonta eadrainn, cé go bhfuilid go beag, ach ar a laghad is siad comonta. there has been some improvement after the mandate came into force in 2016, but there have been many changes. the more we say it, the more politics we have, and the more we work together, the more we have to do. i must go to the hospital and get a blood test. we should focus on the needs of the people, the employment and the high standards to be provided, and the commitments to be made for the sustainable phase of the cycle. it is an important tool for the development of partnerships, and it is important to support the development of countries that are struggling with social and economic problems. we are still creating, of course, because of the illicit financial crisis of 2007-2013. the 2014-2020 programme of the european union will not be completed before 2016 and a review of the financial framework should be carried out annually. there are many things we have to do to help our citizens, and there are many things we have to do to help them.
madam president, to those who would question the job potential of green jobs, i would point them to the submissions the committee received from various sectors of our economy, pointing to the potential for jobs in this area, particularly those in the construction area in terms of refurbishing old buildings and public buildings right across europe. there is enormous job potential there in terms of upskilling people in plumbing, and for electricians, using the digital economy and technology to upgrade our public buildings. that is just one area. i do not understand the opposition and the questioning of the potential for green jobs in our economy. the inefficient use of resources needs to be tackled – climate change, the impact of our actions on the environment: the more knowledge we have, the more potential we have to protect these areas. innovation, how to tackle pollution, how to tackle pollution of our waterways, waste disposal, energy efficiency, various areas in which jobs in the green economy can be created. i would like to thank jean lambert for her support and for her work with the various groupings in producing this report. one area that i think is very important – and the commissioner touches upon this – is the area of skills and the need to develop skills for the green economy, which is particularly relevant to young people. we have had this discussion before on the need to match skills to the needs of industry, to the needs of the marketplace, and i think it is something where the commission has very strong role to play with the member states in ensuring that education and training establishments develop the necessary skills for such jobs.
madam president, i want to thank laura and jean for their excellent work on the two reports. for now, i will concentrate on the green economy. in this context i fully support the view that sustainable patterns of consumption and production have a very significant potential to generate new jobs and help transform existing jobs into green jobs. that is in fact what i would call future-proofing employment opportunities. in order to achieve that future-proofing we need to anticipate future skills needs. in that context, we should listen to cedefop who propose that adapting curricula and including environmental awareness with an understanding of sustainable development and business efficiency is better than proposing new training programmes. that is down-to-earth and informed advice and we need to take it on board. i fully support the phasing-out of environmentally harmful subsidies and indeed i support the rapporteur when she calls for the phasing-out of all subsidies by 2020. i also support the call to the commission requesting independent studies on the costs and benefits of a shift in the tax burden, for example from labour to environmental taxation. while taxation is a member state competence, the results of these studies can and should inform thinking in the member states. we now have the opportunity in the framework of the european fund for strategic investment to promote investment that will act as a catalyst for a green transition. in the area of social policy, this fund can alleviate energy poverty by promoting energy-efficient homes and in the context of job creation we, in alde, fully support the creation of decent jobs, as defined by the ilo, which will lead to quality employment.
madam president, i want to commend the rapporteur on her very good work on the green employment initiative report, which will help us realise the job creation potential of the green economy while ensuring that the transition does not leave working people behind. i am disappointed that some groups appear to be attempting to water down important elements of the report, such as the commitment to creating quality, secure jobs. a just transition means ensuring targeted skills training is provided for workers and students, including workers dislocated from declining polluting industries in emerging green technologies. the new jobs created in the green economy should be decent, secure and well paid. this parliament should send a clear signal tonight that we want to see workers and their unions deeply involved in this process. workers’ input should extend from the workplace level right up to the state level. this will help minimise dislocation and maximise the success of the economic transformation that we need. public procurement can also play an important role in the transition by including proactive environmental and social criteria. any shift in taxation from labour to the environment should target the major polluters and aim at changing polluting behaviour. it must not be regressive taxation of consumers, which only hits the poorest hardest. this parliament should also call on the commission to ensure that the just transition agenda remains a strong part of its negotiating position at the cop 21 paris climate summit.
colleagues, i shall just repeat my concerns about the timing of our debate. i would ask that we try and respect the time. i will be reasonably flexible but i will have to tell colleagues to stick within the timeframe.
the president, i would like to welcome you to the president of the european parliament. i come from ireland, and the irish people - like most people in europe - want to see greece remain within the euro and within the european union. the question is: does mr tsipras and his government want that? i think we should know the answer as soon as possible if that's ideologically against their wishes. secondly, i want to say that i listened carefully to mr tsipras. i spoke about corruption, tax evasion and inequalities in greek society. what has he done to address that in the last six months, and what will he do to address those failures in the next six or 12 months? as i said, i'm from ireland. six years ago we were in a similar position to greece. we were considered the basket case of europe, but with good leadership, taking the decisions that were necessary and engaging with our partners in europe, we negotiated our way out of the difficulties. was it hard? boy, was it hard. people lost their homes; people lost their savings; people lost their jobs; people lost their children to immigration. but now, thankfully, because we took the hard medicine, we have the fastest-growing economy in europe, at 4.8%. that's because of good leadership. i say to mr tsipras: leadership is about giving leadership and taking the hard decisions, not going around europe giving interviews to every newspaper, television station and radio station, as we have seen. i would suggest to him that he go back to greece, bring his colleagues together for two days and come up with a sensible reform package. he will not be found wanting in meeting them more than half way.
the president welcomed the report as an attempt to achieve a balance between the rights of artists and creators. the right to work for creators is important, and we must try to ensure that we do not fear the public. i láthair na huaire cuireann an dlí cóipchirt teorainn le sreabhadh in the intellectual property andalaín, culture agus eolas of the member states. now we can try to make the laws in sri lanka without any legal deception of the producers and users to be allowed to do so. the european parliament has today adopted a resolution on the protection of the environment and the protection of the public. but we must admit that there is also a lot of work to be done in the fight against the reward that intellectual property producers get from the law. such things must be done in accordance with the law so that the reward of work is not lost. the report will not be the end of the debate, but it is an important step in keeping your laws up to date with the changing technology.
madam president, the european union gets pilloried and attacked for coming out with stupid ideas from time to time. the most famous one – and i suppose, like a lot of urban myths, it might not necessarily be true – was the story of the fight for straight bananas, for some reason. well, the idea that you would restrict someone’s ability to distribute views of panoramas, whether that be for commercial or personal use, is completely and utterly ridiculous. the people who designed these buildings – let us say they are buildings – got paid for those designs. we have been contacted by many people who believe this is just another way for big business to make more money. technology was meant to improve our lives. i hope it does. when i was growing up, i could listen to any sporting event in the world on bbc radio. even though i am from ireland, we tune into it. i fear in the future that my grandkids will not have access to similar things because of the progress of technology and blocking. that is not what we are looking for. we are looking for progress and spreading culture.
mr president, yesterday we did not vote on ttip. yesterday we voted on the parameters being set down by the parliament for the negotiations. we outlined our requirements – our red lines, as it were. i voted against isds, but the parliament voted for an alternative – to replace it with a better system. this is a real improvement, but it did not go far enough for me. so, while i voted against isds, i abstained on the final vote. i did not want to support a text that is not crystal clear. however, the text contained many positive things, such as strong statements on workers’ rights, on maintaining eu standards in the areas of food, chemicals, labour law etc., and – crucially – the exclusion of public services from the deal. those were all strong messages that i wanted to send to the commission. in the final analysis, if we get a good ttip i will support it. if we do not, i will not. that decision will not be taken for some time yet. it may even be years away. in the meantime, i said ‘no’ to isds, but i also sent a clear message to the commission on other crucial areas.
i voted for the trans-atlantic trade and investment partnership, and i've said to people like jude kirton-darling and marian harkin, there's no trade agreement we're going to have, but we'll have the help of god, and now we have to face the laws of trade. but of course, people were worried, and they were very happy to have a chance to be in the parliament. we are worried in éirinn especially about the talmhaíochta, the mattress and the mattress, and we are looking forward to keeping it. and at the end of the day, we're voting against it, especially with the whole damn thing. freisin, people were talking about the system of conspired settlement between investors and the state, an isds sea to thugtar air. i'm glad you're here. i hope you can come to the meeting and join us.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report as it is sinn fein’s position that the ttip being negotiated by the eu and united states will have disastrous consequences for democracy in member states, the environment, labour rights and public services. this report endorsed the ttip negotiations, which have been carried out in secret. i voted in favour of several amendments which ranged from an outright rejection of the ttip project to protection of workers’ rights, food and water standards, public services, and the environment. i voted in favour of the joint gue-ngl/efdd/greens amendment calling for a ‘positive list’ approach when dealing with services. on the critical issue of the isds – investor-state dispute settlement – there were two key compromise amendments, 117 (proposed by rapporteur lange) and 118 (proposed by the greens). i voted against amendment 117 and in favour of amendment 118. amendment 117 aims to replace the isds system with a ‘new system’ which still retained the fundamental element of investors being able to sue states over public policy that may curtail corporate profits, which i believe is unacceptable. on the other hand, amendment 118 called on the commission to reject the inclusion of isds in ttip as other remedies are already available.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report as it is sinn féin’s position that the trans-atlantic trade and investment partnership being negotiated by the european commission and united states will have disastrous consequences for democracy in member states, the environment, labour rights and public services based on the current mandate. i voted in favour of several amendments including some which i drafted which would, if enacted, have helped protect irish interests. these ranged from an outright rejection of the current ttip project to specific amendments aimed at protecting workers’ rights, food and water standards, public services, and the environment. sinn féin is opposed to any form of isds – investor-state dispute settlement – as this mechanism undermines democratic institutions and could potentially limit the potential of governments to enact legislation aimed at improving the lives of citizens when such legislation conflicts with corporate interests. there is massive public opposition to the secretive trade deal among my constituents. the ttip will have a seriously detrimental impact in ireland – on jobs, agriculture, the environment, workers’ rights and vital public services.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the overall report because it is an insult to democracy.
in writing. ‒ i voted for this report as it brings an opportunity to make improvements and create a new generation model that addresses the weaknesses identified in other agreements. there is no doubt that such a trade agreement will benefit the eu, and ireland in particular, with our strong economic ties. irish exporters currently pay eur 300 million in tariffs to the us treasury. these barriers inhibit exports from ireland and impose costs. the shape of any investor and state dispute settlement (isds) system will ultimately be the subject of negotiation and agreement between the eu and the us. a major public consultation has taken place on this issue within the eu and the concerns which have been raised will feed into the negotiation process. i am confident that any final deal will address those and any other concerns comprehensively and that the sovereign right of governments to legislate in the public interest will be safeguarded, as has been confirmed today by parliament’s vote on ttip.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the transatlantic trade and investment partnership and the compromise on isds which calls for a new, open and accountable system of dispute settlement. this will ensure that foreign investors are treated in a non-discriminatory fashion, while benefiting from no greater rights than domestic investors, and will replace the isds-system with a new system for resolving disputes between investors and states which is subject to democratic principles and scrutiny, where potential cases are treated in a transparent manner by publicly appointed, independent professional judges in public hearings and which includes an appellate mechanism, where consistency of judicial decisions is ensured, the jurisdiction of courts of the eu and of the member states is respected, and where private interests cannot undermine public policy objectives.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report as it is sinn fein’s position that the trans-atlantic trade and investment partnership being negotiated by the european union and united states will have disastrous consequences for democracy in member states, the environment, labour rights and public services. this report endorsed the ttip negotiations, which have been carried out in secret. i voted in favour of several amendments tabled by my group, the gue/ngl, and the greens. these ranged from an outright rejection of the ttip project to specific amendments aimed at protecting workers’ rights, food and water standards, public services, and the environment. i voted in favour of the joint gue-ngl/efdd/greens amendment that called for the negotiations to adopt a ‘positive list’ approach when dealing with services. on the critical issue of the isds – investor-state dispute settlement – there were two key compromise amendments, 117 (proposed by rapporteur lange) and 118 (proposed by the greens). i voted against amendment 117 and in favour of amendment 118. there is massive public opposition to the secretive trade deal among my constituents. the ttip will have a seriously detrimental impact in ireland – on jobs, agriculture, the environment, workers’ rights and vital public services.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report. this is a technical report and the purpose is to provide a technical adjustment to the stabilisation and association agreement between the european communities and their member states, of the one part, and serbia, of the other part, to take account of the accession of croatia to the european union. the council can only adopt if the parliament provides consent to the act. it was for these reasons that i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report as this sends a strong signal that we need to develop and encourage further cooperation between the eu and india in terms of scientific and technological issues. india is one of the fastest growing countries in the world and the eu needs to keep pace with significant technological and scientific developments in india.
mr president, the cofferati report is a balanced text which focuses on delivering full transparency where there is real benefit to both shareholders and stakeholders. at the same time, i think we struck a balance between the protection of personal data and existing eu corporate governance structures. in particular, i was very pleased to be able to support the proposal on country-by-country reporting in order to help ensure full transparency on tax payments. the call to the commission to instigate country-by-country reporting will affect all companies who trade across borders in all sectors. in my opinion, this entails a significant change in eu taxation policy. it will assist the commission in fighting tax fraud, tax evasion, tax avoidance and aggressive tax planning at both eu and global level.
in writing. ‒ while i supported this report i abstained on a number of votes regarding country-by-country report for transnational companies. first of all, country-by-country reporting does not fit into the scope of this directive where the focus is on shareholders. secondly, negotiations are still ongoing in relation to this issue and i do not think parliament should take a preliminary position on this without due regard to the final negotiations.
the president voted in favour of the report and therefore called on the rapporteur, ivo belet, to take part in the discussion and to propose a solution at the end of the year. i was not a ruler, but i had to read and do; i had to take laws from parliament. as regards the laws in force, there will be a change in the ets system. it was people ag rá gur ceart is to do chomh luath agus is féidir, and people ag rá nach ceart to do till 2021. is probably going to have an easy 2019 sásúil. it will make no difference, especially when a church is going to have a big meeting with its parents at the end of the year, and it should be able to come to a decision tomorrow. the focus is on the importance of finding a global solution to the climate crisis. it'll be without an important.
in writing. ‒ the european commission’s so-called ‘cornerstone’ of its climate-change policy, the emissions trading scheme, has been an objective and unmitigated failure. its aim to promote reductions of greenhouse gas emissions in a cost-effective and economically efficient manner has clearly not been achieved. the surplus of allowances has had a major impact on the carbon price. the intention of the market stability reserve is to reduce the number of allowances in the market if there are too many and introduce new ones in the event of a shortage. it is a vital but insufficient step to improving this deeply flawed scheme. we now need the commission to come forward with a proposal for a permanent mechanism which will see any unused allowances removed at the end of each trading period.
in writing. ‒ the european commission’s so-called ‘cornerstone’ of its climate-change policy, the emissions trading scheme, has been an objective and unmitigated failure. its aim to promote reductions of greenhouse gas emissions in a cost-effective and economically efficient manner has clearly not been achieved. the surplus of allowances has had a major impact on the carbon price. the intention of the market stability reserve is to reduce the number of allowances in the market if there are too many and introduce new ones in the event of a shortage. it is a vital but insufficient step to improving this deeply flawed scheme. we now need the commission to come forward with a proposal for a permanent mechanism which will see any unused allowances removed at the end of each trading period.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report for the establishment of a market stability reserve (msr) for the eu greenhouse gas emission trading system. the setting up of the market stability reserve in the eu emissions trading system will help put the eu’s climate policies back on track. it is needed to address the surplus of emission allowances that have built up over the years, and which will remain in the system for decades unless we take steps to correct this. the msr will act as an objective mechanism which will be triggered if a surplus of more than 833 million allowances is reached and 12% of the allowances (100 million) will then be set aside. conversely, if the liquidity on the market falls below 400 million allowances, 100 million allowances will be released from the reserve into the market. parliament calls for a much earlier establishment and operation of the msr by 2019 compared to the commission’s 2021, and i think this is the right approach.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which aims to make structural changes to the emissions trading system addressing in particular the surplus of emission allowances which have built up in the market since 2009. this report addresses the issue of the ‘back-loaded’ allowances, commits to reviewing the ets directive and the issue of carbon leakage and supports the establishment of an innovation fund generated by the auctioning of 300 million allowances to help industry’s transition to low-carbon technology.
in writing. ‒ the european commission’s so-called ‘cornerstone’ of its climate-change policy, the emissions trading scheme, has been an objective and unmitigated failure. its aim to promote reductions of greenhouse gas emissions in a cost-effective and economically efficient manner has clearly not been achieved. the surplus of allowances has had a major impact on the carbon price. the intention of the market stability reserve is to reduce the number of allowances in the market if there are too many and introduce new ones in the event of a shortage. it is a vital but insufficient step to improving this deeply flawed scheme. we now need the commission to come forward with a proposal for a permanent mechanism which will see any unused allowances removed at the end of each trading period.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report from the employment and social affairs committee, which amends five existing labour-related directives aimed at providing a minimum safety net for workers. all five exclude seafarers from these protections and the aim of the report is for seafarers to receive the same protections as other workers as set out in the directives. the relevant directives address:- the protection of employees if their employer becomes insolvent;- the safeguarding of employees’ rights in the event of transfers of undertakings;- the establishment of european works councils;- establishing a general framework for informing and consulting employees;- the approximation of the laws of the member states relating to collective redundancies. the proposal from the commission has been strengthened and improved in the employment and social affairs committee under the current rapporteur – after an earlier draft report was rejected as it tried to even further exclude seafarers from these protections. this report will help strengthen protections at work for seafarers, which is why i supported it.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report from the employment and social affairs committee, which amends five existing labour-related directives aimed at providing a minimum safety net for workers. all five exclude seafarers from these protections and the aim of the report is for seafarers to receive the same protections as other workers as set out in the directives. the relevant directives address:- the protection of employees if their employer becomes insolvent;- the safeguarding of employees’ rights in the event of transfers of undertakings;- the establishment of european works councils;- establishing a general framework for informing and consulting employees;- the approximation of the laws of the member states relating to collective redundancies. the proposal from the commission has been strengthened and improved in the employment and social affairs committee under the current rapporteur – after an earlier draft report was rejected as it tried to even further exclude seafarers from these protections. this report will help strengthen protections at work for seafarers, which is why i supported it.
in writing. ‒ i was very pleased to support this report for a commission proposal for a directive on seafarers. this new directive will amend five existing directives in order to give seafarers the same rights as their on-shore colleagues who, until now have been excluded under certain labour directives by some member states from their right to information and consultation. fair and equal treatment across the eu is a fundamental right of its citizens and it is positive that this new directive will go towards remedying this gap. given the sector has continually declined over the last number of years i hope enhanced working conditions will attract new workers, particularly young people who could reenergise the sector. it will also be positive from a competitive perspective by ensuring all operators across the eu are on a level playing field.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this proposal which will include seafarer workers in the six directives from which they were previously excluded including the insolvency directive, the collective redundancies directive and the transfer of undertakings directive. the report also establishes specific provisions, particularly regarding information and consultation of workers and regarding protection of workers’ rights.
i wrote it. ‒ i voted in favour of this report by the committee on employment and social affairs. the report draws on five existing guidelines relating to labour issues and is aimed at raising the level of safety at work. in the absence of such a directive, there is no need to protect the environment and the aim of the report is to ensure that the same conditions apply to the environment and the environment as to the protection of the environment. the directive addresses the following issues: the protection of employees in the event of transfers of their residence; the protection of employees in the event of transfers of their residence; the establishment of a european works council; the general rules for the establishment of an employment information and advice service; the protection of employees in the member state concerned by trade marks. the commission has proposed to the council to choose a social policy and to give the council the opportunity to report on the draft legislation at an earlier stage, after having taken account of the circumstances. the report will be presented to the european parliament in the next month and i am very pleased to support it.
mr president, the agea report on employment guidelines provides a good template for eu policymakers. it provides a comprehensive overview, from requesting a reliable indicator for extreme poverty to identifying risks to the success of the youth guarantee. it asks member states to cut red tape for small businesses, and it also talks about promoting entrepreneurship. crucially, it talks about aligning training systems in member states more closely to labour market needs and tackling precarious employment. but i also wish to reiterate the words of commissioner thyssen in the debate on this dossier when she said that all citizens want decent work – decent jobs – that will support them and their families. in the alde group, we support the creation of decent jobs, as defined by the ilo. we want to use clearly-defined terms that can be understood and measured.
in writing. ‒ i abstained on this report on guidelines for employment policies of member states. this report is certainly an improvement on the commission proposal on this topic but it also includes several problematic elements that promote business interests at the expense of labour rights. the commission proposal focused on reforming education systems in order to match skills with the demand of the labour market, modernising social security systems, reforming pension systems including linking retirement age to life expectancy, and shifting the tax burden from labour to other sources of taxation. the agea report improved on this significantly by including references to decent working conditions and adequate wages, labour standards, adequate social protection, among other things. the report also widened the scope of the report to challenging poverty. i was in favour of many elements of the report. however, there were also several aspects of the report i had problems with, including removing important regulations for business, the promotion of entrepreneurship in the social care sector and skewing member states’ education system to meet the needs of the labour market. i have serious concerns about these aspects of the report, which is why i abstained.
in writing. ‒ i abstained on this report on guidelines for employment policies of member states. this report is certainly an improvement on the commission proposal on this topic but it also includes several problematic elements that promote business interests at the expense of labour rights. the commission proposal focused on reforming education systems in order to match skills with the demand of the labour market, modernising social security systems, reforming pension systems including linking retirement age to life expectancy, and shifting the tax burden from labour to other sources of taxation. the agea report improved on this significantly by including references to decent working conditions and adequate wages, labour standards, adequate social protection, among other things. the report also widened the scope of the report to challenging poverty. i was in favour of many elements of the report. however, there were also several aspects of the report i had problems with, including removing important regulations for business, the promotion of entrepreneurship in the social care sector and skewing member states’ education systems to meet the needs of the labour market. i have serious concerns about these aspects of the report, which is why i abstained.
in writing. ‒ i abstained on this report on guidelines for employment policies of member states. this report is certainly an improvement on the commission proposal on this topic but it also includes several problematic elements that promote business interests at the expense of labour rights. the commission proposal focused on reforming education systems in order to match skills with the demand of the labour market, modernising social security systems, reforming pension systems including linking retirement age to life expectancy, and shifting the tax burden from labour to other sources of taxation. the agea report improved on this significantly by including references to decent working conditions and adequate wages, labour standards, adequate social protection, among other things. the report also widened the scope of the report to challenging poverty. i was in favour of many elements of the report. however, there were also several aspects of the report i had problems with, including removing important regulations for business, the promotion of entrepreneurship in the social care sector and skewing member states’ education systems to meet the needs of the labour market. i have serious concerns about these aspects of the report, which is why i abstained.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, which supports the commission's proposal to mobilise the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) in order to grant € 1 365 000 from the egf to finland. the finnish grant will apply to 600 finnish workers who have lost their jobs with electronics company broadcom. some 3 000 broadcom jobs have been lost altogether globally as a result of its decision to end one aspect of its work (cellular baseband). the company is completely ending its finnish operations and continuing operations in the us and asia. the egf can be used to assist workers in situations of mass lay-offs arising from economic contractions, and has previously been used to assist workers in this situation in ireland. the circumstances in the broadcom case meet the requirements for the egf to be applied, so i voted in favour.
in writing. – i voted in favour of this report, which supports the commission's proposal to mobilise the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) in order to grant € 1 365 000 from the egf to finland. the finnish grant will apply to 600 finnish workers who have lost their jobs with electronics company broadcom. some 3 000 broadcom jobs have been lost altogether globally as a result of its decision to end one aspect of its work (cellular baseband). the company is completely ending its finnish operations and continuing operations in the us and asia. the egf can be used to assist workers in situations of mass lay-offs arising from economic contractions, and has previously been used to assist workers in this situation in ireland. the circumstances in the broadcom case meet the requirements for the egf to be applied, so i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ i was pleased to support this application for mobilisation of the egf by the finnish government in relation to 568 redundancies in broadcom communications as well as two affected suppliers/downstream producers. these workers will receive a 60% contribution of eur 1 365 000 from the egf to assist these workers to transfer to a new job through counselling and guidance with applications etc., start up their own businesses or access tailored training and education. i think the authorities have devised a very good package of coordinated and personalised services, in consultation with representatives of the beneficiaries, and i particularly welcome the proposal for a start-up grant for aspiring entrepreneurs of approximately eur 6 000 on average which will be of real, practical assistance to those wishing to establish new businesses following their redundancy.
i wrote it. ‒ a delightful 600 works will be available from fhionlainn to chaill a bpost from the electronics company broadcom. timpeall an deep, cailleadh 3 000 post in broadcom already, because an gcinneadh to rinneadar chun deireadh a chuir le gné amháin dá gcuid oibre (cellular baseband). the company has now completed its full operation in finland and is continuing to operate in the united states and asia. the european social fund (esf) can be used to help workers in certain cases where a large number of them are unemployed for economic reasons. the baths were already in use in éirinn. the commission therefore considers that the requirements set out in the echr should be respected without voting more favourably.
i wrote it. what is the best of some kind in the mandate for 2016, can not be said to have many benefits: further education, political dialogue, and new programs are in place in the budget. i've been thinking about it for a while. we should focus on the needs of the people, the quality of employment to be provided, and the commitments to be made for the sustainable, inclusive phase. it is an important tool for the development of partnerships, and it is important to support the development of countries without a strong social and economic structure. there are many things we can do about the 2007-2013 ilbhliantúil airgeadais crisis. the 2014-2020 ea will be scheduled to be completed before the end of 2016. a financial framework should be reviewed. there are many things we have to do to help our citizens: true-infheistíocht i ndaoine, ni brabús. because of the above reason, they're not voting in it.
i wrote it. what is the best of some kind in the mandate for 2016, can not be said to have many benefits: further education, political dialogue, and new programs are in place in the budget. i've been thinking about it for a while. we should focus on the needs of the people, the quality of employment to be provided, and the commitments to be made for the sustainable, inclusive phase. it is an important tool for the development of partnerships, and it is important to support the development of countries without a strong social and economic structure. there are many things we can do about the 2007-2013 ilbhliantúil airgeadais crisis. the 2014-2020 ea will be scheduled to be completed before the end of 2016. a financial framework should be reviewed. there are many things we have to do to help our citizens: true-infheistíocht i ndaoine, ni brabús. because of the above reason, they're not voting in it.
i wrote it. ‒ what is the best of some kind in the mandate for 2016, what can be done to improve it: more money, more politics, more new programmes to be put in place. i've been thinking about it for a while. we should focus on the needs of the people, the quality of employment to be provided, and the commitments to be made for the sustainable, inclusive phase. it is an important tool for the development of partnerships, and it is important to support the development of countries without a strong social and economic structure. there are many things we can do about the 2007-2013 ilbhliantúil airgeadais crisis. the 2014-2020 ea will be scheduled to be completed before the end of 2016. a financial framework should be reviewed. there are many things we have to do to help our citizens: true-infheistíocht i ndaoine, ni brabús. because of the above reason, they're not voting in it.
mr president, this report on tapping into the job creation potential of the green economy is a most worthwhile contribution to the debate, and in particular i support jean lambert’s stance on investing in energy efficiency. as an employment tool, it can certainly promote local job creation and local economic development. energy poverty affects 125 million people at european level, and investing in energy- efficient homes achieves a quadruple win. it helps alleviate energy poverty. it helps to create new jobs. it ensures a significant reduction in dependence on the use of fossil fuels and in particular on imported fossil fuels, and crucially it helps to reduce co2 emissions and fight climate change.
the president, as my colleague marian harkin said, is an important report and this, of course, is an important step forward for the industry. as the report says, there are things we can improve but at the same time we can focus on certain things: in particular, we cannot do without people in it and stem skills. freisin níl dóthain mná ag dul isteach sna jabanna seo agus sna cúrsaí seo, agus ba chóir dúinn is without the change mar má fhaigheann siad an gríosadh déanfaidh siad is. freisin níl dóthain mná ag dul isteach sna jabanna seo agus sna cúrsaí seo, agus ba chóir dúinn is without the change mar má fhaigheann siad an gríosadh déanfaidh siad is. freisin níl dóthain mná ag dul isteach sna jabanna seo agus sna cúrsaí seo, agus ba chóir dúinn is without the change mar mar má fhaigheann siad an gríosadh déanfaidh siad is. i'm sure you do. but of course, we can do a lot to improve the environment and employment by using energy properly, saving it and using it effectively. therefore, this is an important report and i hope that it will be made more widely available.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, which highlights the job-creation potential of the green economy in the future across europe, including in ireland. it also aims to ensure that the transition does not leave working people and their communities behind. the report stresses to the commission the importance of ensuring the economic transformation we need to achieve is a ‘just transition’. a just transition means ensuring targeted skills training and assistance is provided for workers and students – including workers dislocated from declining polluting industries – in emerging green technologies and energy efficiency. the new jobs created in the green economy should be decent, secure and well-paid. i am disappointed that some parliamentary groups banded together to weaken important elements of the report, such as the commitment to creating quality, secure jobs. despite this, the report is still a progressive and valuable step forward. when it comes to an economic transformation of the scale we are discussing, we need workers and their unions to be deeply involved in the transition – an aspect of the report i was strongly in favour of. public procurement can also play an important role in the transition by including proactive environmental and social criteria.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, which will help us realise the job-creation potential of the green economy in the future across europe, including in ireland. it aims to ensure that the transition does not leave working people and their communities behind. the report stresses the importance of ensuring the economic transformation we need to achieve is a ‘just transition’. a just transition means ensuring targeted skills training and assistance is provided for workers and students – including workers dislocated from declining polluting industries – in emerging green technologies and energy efficiency. the new jobs created in the green economy should be decent, secure and well-paid. we need workers and their unions to be deeply involved in the transition – an aspect of the report i was strongly in favour of. i voted against the wording in §62 relating to tax, as it appeared to be that the wording amounted to an infringement of the tax sovereignty of member states. i am disappointed that some parliamentary groups banded together to weaken important elements of the report, such as the commitment to creating quality, secure jobs. despite this, the report is still a progressive and valuable step forward.
i wrote it. - chaith me vote and bhfabhar in that report. the commission will continue to support the european union's efforts to promote employment and the development of the european economy. leagtar beim ar an tábhacht atá ann gan daoine no pobail to fhágáil taobh thiar agus an trasdul ag tarlú. i'm not sure what you mean. the report stresses the importance of ensuring that economic change takes place. this means that training must be provided to give workers and students the green technologies and energy efficiency they need. should the naked child be go maith, safe agus le pa maith. there should be a role for the public in the decision-making process. i'm afraid i'm going to have to go and see the report. the council voted against the proposal and the commission voted against the proposal, but the council voted against the proposal. the group in the european parliament has said that the report contains important elements that have not been addressed, such as the need to create safe water standards. however, this report is a step in the right direction.
mr president, tax evasion and avoidance is probably something that is in every country and not only developing countries; it happens within the european union as well. certainly, where developing countries are concerned, it is one thing to give development aid, but we must also help them to get proper tax systems within their countries. it is estimated that the developing countries lost about eur 5.5 billion between 2003 and 2012 because of tax evasion and avoidance, and obviously this is not a good situation for anybody. it is not fair and they cannot develop as a result of it. if they could cut out evasion and avoidance and plug the loopholes, then i think a lot of progress could be made. the point made by my colleague, ms macovei, regarding tax havens is very relevant too.
in writing. ‒ this report was concerned with tax avoidance and tax evasion and the effect that this has on developing countries. moreover, this report feeds into the un agenda on financing for development which will hold a high-level summit in ethiopia next week. it builds on important measures and instruments such as public listing of ultimate beneficial owners of companies and transparency in tax reporting. these are necessary measures in combating the illicit capital flows from developing countries to anonymous multinationals who purposely manipulate legislation in order to take advantage of tax loopholes. it was for these reasons that i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ this report was concerned with tax avoidance and tax evasion and the effect that this has on developing countries. moreover, this report feeds into the un agenda on financing for development which will hold a high-level summit in ethiopia next week. it builds on important measures and instruments such as public listing of ultimate beneficial owners of companies and transparency in tax reporting. these are necessary measures in combating the illicit capital flows from developing countries to anonymous multinationals who purposely manipulate legislation in order to take advantage of tax loopholes. it was for these reasons that i voted in favour of this report.
mr president, my colleagues in the ppe from ireland voted in favour of this report, because we think it is a very important one. there are many exceptionally good elements in it. it is estimated that a properly-functioning circular economy could create anything up to two million jobs and be worth eur 250 billion to 465 billion to the economy. obviously, apart from the economic benefits, there are the environmental benefits. we have just talked about waste. the word waste means that you are wasting something. obviously the less waste we have, the more use we make of our resources and the more efficient we are. obviously it costs less. this is a very good proposal. i think we should try to follow it through and give the lead, particularly in europe, on how this can be done. but the final point is that we must do so without putting too many burdens on smes. i think we can do that in a practical manner.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report on the circular economy and am pleased that the majority of the european parliament has as well, especially in light of the commission’s decision to withdraw the waste proposal earlier this year. this vote by parliament will hopefully put pressure on the commission to come forward with an ambitious proposal by the end of this year. whilst i would have preferred to see a mandatory 30% target for overall resource use in the eu instead of a temporary one, overall this report sends out an ambitious signal to the european commission. the commission must now seize the opportunity to build upon the parliament’s recommendations and come forward with legislation which is stronger than their original proposals. it is essential that we end our overconsumption of natural resources now. any such move will not only benefit our environment but also contribute to significant cost-savings whilst creating an estimated 2 million new jobs by 2050.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report on the circular economy and am pleased that the majority of the european parliament has as well, especially in light of the commission’s decision to withdraw the waste proposal earlier this year. this vote by parliament will hopefully put pressure on the commission to come forward with an ambitious proposal by the end of this year. whilst i would have preferred to see a mandatory 30% target for overall resource use in the eu instead of a temporary one, overall this report sets out an ambitious signal to the european commission. the commission must now seize the opportunity to build upon the parliament’s recommendations and come forward with legislation which is stronger than their original proposals. it is essential that we end our overconsumption of natural resources now. any such move will not only benefit our environment but also contribute to significant cost-savings whilst creating an estimated 2 million new jobs by 2050.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report and i believe developing a true circular economy is vital to our future on the planet.
in writing. ‒ i was pleased to support this report on resource efficiency: moving towards a circular economy. this was the parliament’s contribution to this important initiative promoting the circular economy which the commission will launch at the end of the year. minimising waste generation and resource use will not only reduce costs but will also increase eu competitiveness. at the moment we are not reaching our full potential, but a 30% increase in resource productivity in the next 15 years could boost gdp by 1% and create over 2 million jobs. the report had several strong demands by parliament, including updated european waste and recycling targets as well as targets on food waste and the creation of economic incentives. i was particularly happy to support the inclusion of an indicator on resource efficiency in the european semester and a proposal for green public procurement requirements.
in writing. ‒ i supported this parliament own initiative report as natural resources need to be used more efficiently. this own initiative calls on the commission to review legislation such as the eco-design directive and submit a new proposal on waste legislation. moving towards a circular economy by increasing resource productivity by 30% by 2030 could boost the eu’s gdp by nearly 1% and create an extra 2 million sustainable jobs.
i wrote it. ‒ i am very pleased to have received this report from the european parliament, especially after the decision to take the commission earlier this year to draw up a draft directive on the subject. it is likely that a clear vote will be taken by the commission before the end of the year. it is without doubt better to target 30% to see the use of resources in ae instead of in se. i'm not sure i'm the only one who's been to the commission. the commission should now be given the opportunity to use the majority in parliament to strengthen its legislation more strongly than in the previous legislative session. it is therefore important to immediately eliminate the root causes of these natural disasters. the benefits of an environment that is safe, that is free from any laws, will be the enormous cost savings to be made and will be around 2 billion by 2050.
in writing. ‒ i abstained on this report. the aim of this report was to lay down the maximum permitted levels of radioactive contamination of food and feed following a nuclear accident. however, i believe that the measures included are insufficient to provide adequate protection and the legislation proposes maximum levels which do not correspond to many experts’ recommendations.
in writing. ‒ i abstained on this report. the aim of this report was to lay down the maximum permitted levels of radioactive contamination of food and feed following a nuclear accident. however, i believe that the measures included are insufficient to provide adequate protection and the legislation proposes maximum levels which do not correspond to many experts’ recommendations.
in writing. ‒ i supported this report which seeks to strengthen the requirements for the commission to review and inform the parliament about the implementing measures adopted in relation to a nuclear accident or other radiological emergency.
i wrote it. - i'm voting against this report. an aim was to establish a level of safety and to ensure that life was not lost after the nuclear test. measaim nach bhfuil in the measures se maith go leor chun cosaint cheart to provide agus níl comhfhreagairt ar bith sa reachtaíocht se laws in the moltaí a chuir an-chuid of in the saineolaithe chun tosaigh.
mr president, this is again a very important resolution and i was pleased to support it. it is something that we have discussed many times both in ireland and here, and i think it is part of the progression that we are making to get unity within europe. we have the banking union, hopefully we will have an energy union, and the capital markets union is very important as well. all this is going to help our economy, provide alternative sources of financing for smes and also give clarity and regulation to the market. i think these measures are very worthwhile, and the sooner they can be implemented across the european union, the better. it is one of those measures which have long been spoken about and now, hopefully, it can come into being as soon as possible.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this resolution on a future capital markets union. the commission argues that small and medium-sized enterprises should not rely too heavily on the conventional banking sector in order to obtain finance and that they should be able to access funding elsewhere. furthermore, the commission is attempting to duplicate the us model where companies are mainly financed by capital markets and shadow banking activities. they also fail to factor in the very real concern that the financial crisis has shown that traditional banking has provided more lending to the real economy than universal or investments banks. what is required is a focus on public banking and local banking and not a revival of shadow banking. moreover, instead of a focus on capital market union, what is required is a rejection of austerity policies. as we have seen, a focus on short-term growth is dangerous and as long as systematic risks have not been comprehensively addressed we have not truly reduced the risk of future crises and related costs on both the economy and citizens’ lives. irish citizens are still experiencing the results of such negligence in ireland.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this resolution which forms part of the commission’s public hearing process on a future capital markets union which was launched in february this year. the commission argues that small and medium-sized enterprises should not rely too heavily on the conventional banking sector in order to obtain finance and that they should be able to access funding elsewhere. furthermore, the commission is attempting to duplicate the us model where companies are mainly financed by capital markets and shadow banking activities. it also fails to factor in the very real concern that the financial crisis has shown that traditional banking has provided more lending to the real economy than universal or investments banks. what is required is a focus on public banking and local banking and not a revival of shadow banking. as we have seen, a focus on short-term growth is dangerous and as long as systematic risks have not been comprehensively addressed we have not truly reduced the risk of future crises and related costs on both the economy and citizens lives. irish citizens are still experiencing the results of such negligence and disregard in their daily lives.
in writing. ‒ i voted against because we are far enough down this hellish road already. time to turn back.
in writing. ‒ i supported the motion for a resolution for building a capital markets union. a capital markets union is an important step towards delivering the open and appropriately-regulated financial markets necessary to support europe as an internationally competitive location for investment. this union will be accompanied by a strong eu-wide and national supervisory framework that could include a stronger role for the european securities and market authority (esma).
in writing. ‒ i supported this motion for resolution as the capital market union should provide a new, more efficient way to channel savings into small business ventures and protect cross-border investors in the eu.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this resolution which forms part of the commission’s public hearing process on a future capital markets union. the commission argues that smes should not rely too heavily on the conventional banking sector in order to obtain finance and that they should be able to access funding elsewhere. furthermore, the commission is attempting to duplicate the us model where companies are mainly financed by capital markets and shadow banking activities. it also fails to factor in the very real concern that the financial crisis has shown that traditional banking has provided more lending to the real economy than universal or investments banks. what is required is a focus on public banking and local banking and not a revival of shadow banking. instead of a focus on capital market union, what is required is a rejection of austerity policies. as we have seen, a focus on short-term growth is dangerous and as long as systematic risks have not been comprehensively addressed we have not truly reduced the risk of future crises and related costs on both the economy and citizens’ lives. irish citizens are still experiencing the results of such negligence and disregard in ireland.
i wrote it. ‒ the report was very clear, especially in the strongly worded part of the report which was not able to show the basic truth and the need to ensure that the law was put into effect. the report is without doubt a further step towards cooperation with the european parliament and to support the establishment of eu rules on the protection of children. i can't support anything without you, and i'm not going to vote for you.
i wrote it. ‒ to encourage the use of the internet to reach foreigners; to encourage the use of the internet to reach children; to encourage the use of the internet to reach children; to encourage the use of the internet to reach children; to encourage the use of the internet to reach children; to encourage the use of the internet to reach children; to encourage the use of the internet to reach children; to encourage the use of the internet to reach children; to encourage the use of the internet to reach children; to encourage the use of the internet to reach children; to encourage the use of the internet to reach children; to encourage the use of the internet to reach children; to encourage the use of the internet to reach children; to encourage the use of the internet to reach children; to encourage the use of the internet to reach children; to encourage the use of the internet to reach children; to encourage the use of the internet to reach children; to encourage the use of the internet to reach children; to encourage children to read and to read; to encourage children to read and to read; to encourage children to read and to read; to encourage children to read and to read; to read and to read; to read and to read; to read; to read and to read; to read; to read; to read; to read; to read; to read; to read; to read; to read; to read; to read; to read; to read; to read; to read; to read; to read; to read; to read; to read; to read; to read; to read; to read; to read; to read; to read; to read; to read; to read; to read; to read; to read; to read; to read; to read; to read; to read; to read; to read; to read; to read; to read; to read; to read; to read; to read mar sin chaith me vote and bhfabhar.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report. i had a particular issue with the roll call vote which called for a common european security-defence policy. all matters of security and defence should remain firmly within a member state’s own competency and the eu should have no interference with this crucial area. moreover, it welcomes military interventionism, reinforces europol and frontex and places considerable emphasis on free-trade agreements, which are all areas where i have raised a number of concerns.
in writing. ‒ whilst the peillon report contained some positive aspects – namely its opposition to migrant refoulement, its condemnation of drone use, its call to aid in the reconstruction of kobane and reiteration of the eu position on palestine – ultimately the drawbacks of the report were too numerous to support. repeated calls for common european defence, security and foreign policies, support for military intervention in the mena region, reinforcement of the roles of europol and frontex and calls for the widespread introduction of passenger name records make the report impossible to support and therefore i voted against it.
in writing. ‒ there were some positive aspects in this review of the enp. it highlighted the importance of women’s rights, gender equality, human rights, cultural diversity, lgbti rights, rights of minorities, rights of people with disabilities, etc. in the context of the enp. furthermore, the review referred to article 2 of association agreements which bases these agreements on respect for human rights. it goes on to say that policies that jeopardise values, such as respect for human rights should not be adopted under the enp and that the eu cannot compromise its values. i welcome these points. unfortunately, in practice, we see that the eu’s relationship with israel continues to jeopardise these values by failing to take action on israel’s persistent violation of human rights in palestine. this review calls for a strengthening of a common foreign and security policy. it calls for member states to align their efforts so as to speak with a single voice on issues concerning the eastern neighbourhood countries. sovereignty over irish foreign policy is of utmost importance to the irish people and to sinn féin. therefore i abstained on this review of the european neighbourhood policy.
in writing. ‒ there were some positive aspects in this review of the enp. it highlighted the importance of women’s rights, gender equality, human rights, cultural diversity, lgbti rights, rights of minorities, rights of people with disabilities, etc. in the context of the enp. furthermore, the review referred to article 2 of association agreements which bases these agreements on respect for human rights. it goes on to say that policies that jeopardise values, such as respect for human rights should not be adopted under the enp and that the eu cannot compromise its values. i welcome these points. unfortunately, in practice, we see that the eu’s relationship with israel continues to jeopardise these values by failing to take action on israel’s persistent violation of human rights in palestine. this review calls for a strengthening of a common foreign and security policy. it calls for member states to align their efforts so as to speak with a single voice on issues concerning the eastern neighbourhood countries. sovereignty over irish foreign policy is of utmost importance to the irish people and to sinn féin. therefore i abstained on this review of the european neighbourhood policy.
i wrote it. ‒ there was some sexism in the review of the bheartas comharsanachta na europi (bce). the ecb's main tasks are to ensure that the ecb's staff and the general public are informed of the ecb's activities and are able to take part in the work of the ecb. in addition, the commission has reviewed article 2 of the comprehensive agreement on trade in services between the european community and the republic of moldova. it also states that the ecb should not take the measures it has taken against the countries in question and that the eu should not join them. welcome to the site. unfortunately, we have to go with the relationship with israel and the palestinians in this regard, and we have to keep them in the same situation as we have with israel and the palestinians. the review is to be conducted by the commission in accordance with the procedure laid down in article 25 of regulation (ec) no 1224/2009. iarrann is the bhallstáit and i'll try to align it so that it can be used as the only voice on matters that are under the laws of the neighbouring countries. the headsacht ar pholasaí eachtrach is an important part of the mhuintir na héireann agus of the shinn féin. they're not even on the ballot.
i was in parliament this morning when this important matter was debated, and i was very happy to see it done. i think everybody realizes that, in the age of the internet, the laws have to be updated. in particular, we have to protect the rights of the artists and the creators. we have to balance that with the need to have open access to the internet for people. we also have to be very conscious of the protection of schools and libraries, etc. i think that can be done with a balanced approach, and we will, hopefully, allow ourselves the freedom to get that eventually. i was also very pleased that commissioner oettinger, in relation to panorama freedom, said that the talk of it being restricted was a phantom and that it will continue on the basis of national legislation, etc. that is an important point to reassure people. mr president, thank you. you did a fantastic job today. the voting was supposed to take two hours and you got it done in a little over an hour.
mr president, i re-echo my colleague’s work on the voting. i was very pleased today that the european parliament confirmed the freedom of panorama. i was one of the 100-plus meps who submitted the amendment which reads: ‘recognises the right to use photographs, video footage and other images of works which are permanently located in public places’. a very significant number of citizens contacted me on this issue, and they were very concerned about it. in fact, of course, this was just an own-initiative report which means it had no legislative effect, none whatsoever, so their fears were unfounded. however, having said that, it is best that there is no mention anywhere of circumventing freedom of panorama. if, in the future, parliament looks at a legislative proposal from the commission on copyright, obviously what we say there will have an impact in law. but what we voted on today has no impact, either at european or national level, on any law.
in writing. ‒ i am strongly in favour of ensuring that artists and creators are fairly remunerated for their intellectual property, and i believe that this right is protected in this report which clearly states that it must be protected in the digital age. i am in favour of rights for consumers to access content without undue restrictions such as geo-blocking, provided that intellectual property creators are remunerated fairly. i voted against amendment 46, the ‘panorama’ amendment, which aimed to restrict the free use of images and photographs of public buildings. the second part of amendment 46 called for prior authorisation to be required for the use of a picture of a public building, which i believe is absurd and impractical. i also voted no to am1, ‘after§57’. while it was couched in the language of protecting quality-journalism, it is better known as the ‘google tax’ and it was aimed at reducing the rights of internet-users to hyperlink to other websites without paying a fee, which would have been a major boost to massive search engines while limiting access to information online. if either of these two amendments had passed, i would not have been able to support the report. however, both fell.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, which aimed to bring the regulation of copyright up to date with technological advances in the digital age. this report aims to not only defend the rights of artists to be fairly remunerated for their intellectual property in the digital age, but also extends rights to the public and consumers. i am in favour of rights for consumers to access content without undue restrictions such as geo-blocking, provided that intellectual property creators are remunerated fairly. i voted against amendment 46, the so-called panorama amendment, which aimed to restrict the free use of images and photographs of public buildings. i also voted no to amendment 1, ‘after § 57’. while this amendment was couched in the language of protecting quality journalism, it is better known as the ‘snippet tax’, or ‘google tax’ and it was aimed at restricting the rights of internet users to hyperlink to other websites without paying a fee. if either of these two amendments had passed, i would not have been able to support the report. however, both fell, so i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ i voted against amendment 3 original text because it restricts people’s right to take photos of public spaces.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, which aimed to bring the regulation of copyright up to date with technological advances in the digital age. this report aims to not only defend the rights of artists to be fairly remunerated for their intellectual property in the digital age, but also extends rights to the public and consumers. i am in favour of rights for consumers to access content without undue restrictions such as geo-blocking, provided that intellectual property creators are remunerated fairly. i voted against amendment 46, the so-called panorama amendment, which aimed to restrict the free use of images and photographs of public buildings. i also voted no to amendment 1, ‘after § 57’. while this amendment was couched in the language of protecting quality journalism, it is better known as the ‘snippet tax’, or ‘google tax’ and it was aimed at restricting the rights of internet users to hyperlink to other websites without paying a fee. if either of these two amendments had passed, i would not have been able to support the report. however, both fell, so i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ i abstained on the report on the evaluation of the european endowment for democracy. the stated objective of the eed is to support civil society organisations, journalists/media, human rights activists and others who promote pro-democratic non-violent principles in countries where rights may be restricted. in principle i agree with supporting such groups in promoting human rights and democracy. however as well as civil society groups and organisations this report calls for the eed to engage with and support the emergence and consolidation of political parties. this could lead to interference by the eu in the political life of third countries by focusing on pro-eu organisations rather than pro-democracy organisations broadly speaking. i believe in the universality of human rights and democracy and i also believe in the right of all people to decide the political and economic destiny of their country. for this reason i voted abstention.
in writing. ‒ i abstained on the report on the evaluation of the european endowment for democracy. the stated objective of the eed is to support civil society organisations, journalists/media, human rights activists and others who promote pro-democratic non-violent principles in countries where rights may be restricted. in principle i agree with supporting such groups in promoting human rights and democracy. however as well as civil society groups and organisations this report calls for the eed to engage with and support the emergence and consolidation of political parties. this could lead to interference by the eu in the political life of third countries by focusing on pro-eu organisations rather than pro-democracy organisations broadly speaking. i believe in the universality of human rights and democracy and i also believe in the right of all people to decide the political and economic destiny of their country. for this reason i abstained.
i wrote it. ‒ a report on the laws and measures in the european union is being prepared. the specific purpose of the ded is to support civil society organisations, media, and other people's activities in order to prevent unfair competition and to help those countries which are no longer able to do so. i agree and i am responsible for supporting the work of such groups in the fight against human rights and the rights of women in china. however, the report also calls for the edd to be involved in the process and to support the emergence of a common political party, which would be able to take part in civil society organisations. as a result, the eu may interfere in the political life of other countries by targeting organisations working for the eu rather than organisations working for the eu in general. i believe in the right of every person to choose their own political and economic destiny. you're the only ones who are voting.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution. the resolution is concerned with the current political situation in burundi and is specifically concerned with the devastating human rights situation in burundi and also president pierre nkurunziza’s eligibility to run for a third term. despite calls from the international community to delay elections and despite being boycotted by civil society and the opposition, legislative elections took place on 29 june 2015 and presidential elections are scheduled for 15 july 2015. the provisions in this resolution went a long way towards highlighting the egregious human rights violations and it was for these reasons that i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ this motion questions the democratic legitimacy of the recent burundian elections, expresses concern at the worsening political and humanitarian crisis in the nation, calls on the arusha agreement to be honoured, emphasises the need for dialogue and encourages consensus, expresses concern at falling human rights standards in burundi, demands an immediate cessation in the use of youth militias and calls for the immediate freeing of the press via the lifting of state imposed restrictions. sinn féin therefore supported the motion.
i want to talk about nabeel rajab because he's the first person to die in the war. she is the president of the bahrain chapter of chearta an duine and a leas-ard-rúnaí member of the international committee of chearta an duine. but of course, he's in prison for tweeting about isis and about bahraini security forces. no more is sinful than to go to prison. we all know that there are no tweets or social media chatter. therefore, we have decided to take all necessary measures to ensure that the bahraini forces and authorities are released as soon as possible, but there is no doubt that they are not yet free, nor will they be able to return to the country. also, we should set up a working group between bahrain and the united nations to look at the situation in the region, and especially to be free of the fear that bahrain is not doing enough.
mr president, as a member of the epp—subtitled christian democrats, any type of religious discrimination – especially against christians – grates very heavily. this is particularly the case here with the two church leaders, pastors yat michael and peter yen, who were arrested and who now possibly face the death penalty merely for professing their christian faith. this is appalling, and we must certainly do everything we can to get these two eminent and wonderful pastors freed, especially as sudan has ratified the relevant un and african union conventions guaranteeing religious freedom. but, of course, it is totally ignoring them. this is something that we in the european parliament and the commission must really do something about as quickly as we can. also, we should not ignore the situation in darfur, where similar discrimination is carried out, where 2.5 million people are dispatched, and where 4.5 million people need humanitarian aid. sudan really needs our assistance.
mr president, the ruling by eurostat to the irish central statistics office has exposed the pathetic attempts to impose another tax on ordinary families in the guise of water conservation. having already lost the political and democratic argument, irish water has now been deprived of any economic rationale. it is ironic that it was at the behest of the commission and the ecb that a fianna fáil government first proposed the introduction of water charges in ireland, and that it is a decision of another eu institution, eurostat, to the effect that irish water has to remain on the books, that will be the final nail in the coffin of this regressive taxation policy. contrary to spin, eurostat are clear that irish water cannot reach any sort of off-book status, especially with such a high non-payment rate. the report is a damning attack on the incompetence that has been a hallmark of irish water’s existence. it is now time for the irish government and the european institutions to accept the wishes of the irish people and scrap water tax once and for all.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on tuesday, 8 september 2015.
the next item is the report by petri sarvamaa, on behalf of the committee on budgetary control, on protecting the european union’s financial interests: towards performance-based controls of the common agricultural policy (2014/2234(ini)) (a8-0240/2015).
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on tuesday, 8 september 2015. written statements (rule 162)
the next item is the report by angelika niebler, on behalf of the committee on industry, research and energy, on family businesses in europe (2014/2210(ini)) (a8-0223/2015).
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on tuesday, 8 september 2015. written statements (rule 162)
the next item is the report by joão ferreira, on behalf of the committee on industry, research and energy, on untapping the potential of research and innovation in the blue economy to create jobs and growth (2014/2240(ini)) (a8-0214/2015). mr sylikiotis is deputising for mr ferreira.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on tuesday, 8 september 2015. written statements (rule 162)
the next item is the report by michaela šojdrová, on behalf of the committee on culture and education, on promoting youth entrepreneurship through education and training (2015/2006(ini)) (a8-0239/2015).
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on tuesday, 8 september 2015. written statements (rule 162)
the next item is the report by mircea diaconu, on behalf of the committee on culture and education, towards an integrated approach to cultural heritage for europe (2014/2149(ini)) (a8-0207/2015).
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on tuesday, 8 september 2015. written statements (rule 162)
the next item is the report by lynn boylan, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, on the follow-up to the european citizens’ initiative right2water (2014/2239(ini)) (a8-0228/2015).
rapporteur.– madam president. the right2water european citizens’ initiative (eci) was the first successful example of this democratic mechanism and it reached almost double the minimum requirements with a staggering 1.8 million signatures. it is clear that the human right to water is an issue of great importance for citizens across europe. ownership and management of water services are clearly key concerns for citizens and cannot be ignored. in my home country, ireland, which you will be familiar with yourself, madam president, the introduction of flat-rate regressive charges has resulted in some of the largest protests the country has ever seen. given that ireland previously had what was considered one of the most progressive forms of paying for water, through general taxation, this anger is understandable. irish people should not have to submit to an unjust double taxation, which will also affect the poor the hardest. in spite of the unparalleled success of this eci, the official response of the commission was vague, disappointing and did not properly address the demands of the right2water campaign. the response lacked ambition and ignored the key demands of right2water. in this report i have tried to better answer the citizens who are still waiting for proper action from the eu. it is pitiful that the commission had not come forward with legislative proposals enshrining water as a human right and a legal requirement across the european union. this was a key demand of the right2water eci and it has been roundly ignored by the commission so far. i have called on it in this report to rectify the situation. i have recognised that the provision of water services is a natural monopoly, where competition amongst private operators has not worked, does not work and will never work. water is a public good and should never be commodified. profits should not be made on public goods such as water. all revenues must be reinvested into improving infrastructure of water service and not go to shareholders or executives’ pay. it is critical that the commission respect the member states’ right to organise their water services as they see fit. indeed, across the world, we have experienced a growing rise in the re—municipalisation of water services. in other words, water services previously run by private companies are being brought back under public management due to the abject failures of privatisation in the water sector. i would like to express my thanks for the support from the right2water campaign itself and the support of meps in the more progressive groups, but i am extremely disappointed with the epp group, which along with the ecr has produced an alternative resolution which strips the strong and progressive aspects from my report. i can see that they have worked very hard to disguise their sham, but if anyone reads the two reports it is clear where their ambitions lie. they have worked wormholes through the report to weaken it beyond any recognition. gone is any criticism of the commission’s failure to respond to the campaign. gone is the call for the human right to water to be enshrined in legislation, and gone is any criticism of the privatisation of water services. they have removed the call for the commission to remain neutral on the question of ownership and not to promote privatisation of water services. indeed the whole motion is very private-sector-friendly, so much so that the original call for water services to be removed from ttip is completely missing. they have deleted so many positive aspects of the report that it has gone from 37 pages to a 9-page document which reads more like an epp position paper supported by the tories than an honest response to the almost 2 million citizens who signed this eci. it is a dishonest attempt to gag the voices of those who campaigned for the human right to water. given that this was meant to be parliament’s opportunity to respond to the right2water eci it will reflect incredibly poorly on us as the supposed voice of european citizens if this alternative motion is passed, which is not supported by the right2water campaign. the eci was meant to show citizens that the eu is willing to re-engage with them on matters which are important to them. if this alternative motion passes, then the eci is dead in the water.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on tuesday, 8 september 2015. written statements (rule 162)
mr president, i would like to thank the commissioner and colleagues for this report. we have discussed the public opinion on cloning here in the plenary, but let me just recount a story: earlier this year in ireland, we had a report of a famous show-jumping stallion called cruising who passed away, but whose owner had kept genetic material and created two colt foals from this wonderful show-jumping horse. the public reaction was very positive, because they liked and appreciated the skills and attributes of that fine animal and that they had been preserved through cloning. it is an expensive technique: it cost over eur 100,000. i bring that to your attention to say that sometimes the public have different views on the one issue, depending on the species. i share mr federley’s earlier comments. we have a concern in agriculture, which is ‘how do you trace back’? do you close off an avenue for genetic potential, mindful – and i am very mindful where there are animal welfare concerns – that we cannot allow animals to suffer. so let us be very careful about bans. we can call for them, and it might sound good, but can we effectively implement them when we are trading? commissioner, that is something that you might address in your concluding remarks – is it physically, technically and scientifically possible?
the debate is closed. the vote will take place shortly. written statements (rule 162)
the next item is the recommendation for second reading from the committee on the internal market and consumer protection on the correct application of the law on customs and agricultural matters (08257/3/2015 – c8—0159/2015 – 2013/0410(cod)) (liisa jaakonsaari) (a8-0234/2015).
the debate is closed. vote: 8 september 2015. written statements (rule 162)
rapporteur.– mr president, i just have said to the tabling committee that we want to put forward an oral amendment for paragraph 92. the oral amendment is: ‘calls on the member states to introduce, in accordance with world health organisation guidelines, a pricing policy by the application of a progressive charge that safeguards people’s right to access a minimum quantity of water for living and reduces waste’.
in writing. ‒ i was very pleased to support this resolution for the ratification of the protocol of 2014 to the ilo forced labour convention, 1930. this is an important update to the existing convention which seeks to tackle forced or compulsory labour in all its guises in the modern world. it is estimated that over 20 million people are victims of forced labour globally and it is always vulnerable groups such as women, children and migrants that suffer. in the context of the ongoing refugee crisis i particularly welcome its call to protect persons, particularly migrant workers, from possible abusive and fraudulent practices during the recruitment and placement process and to ensure all victims of forced or compulsory labour, irrespective of their presence or legal status in the national territory, have access to appropriate and effective remedies, such as compensation.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because this updated protocol strengthens the international legal framework by establishing obligations to prevent forced labour and to provide victims with protection and access to certain remedies. the international labour organization’s protocol of 2014 on the forced labour convention, 1930, updates the convention, equipping it with new tools for combating forced labour.
in writing. ‒ this report related to the waiver of parliamentary immunity of a member of the european parliament. in waiving an immunity defence, parliament does not formulate any opinion on the probability of guilt or not of the mep in question. it only looks at applying the immunity rules of procedures (so-called protocol no 7) to these cases, and when it finds the alleged actions have no direct and obvious connection to the performance of their duties as an mep, then it decides to waive the immunity, so that court proceedings in the national member state can begin or continue. if there is suspected political interference or otherwise, then a negative vote may be tabled. however, as there was no such suspicion, i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ this report related to the waiver of parliamentary immunity of a member of the european parliament. in waiving an immunity defence, parliament does not formulate any opinion on the probability of guilt or not of the mep in question. it only looks at applying the immunity rules of procedures (so-called protocol no 7) to these cases, and when it finds the alleged actions have no direct and obvious connection to the performance of their duties as an mep, then it decides to waive the immunity, so that court proceedings in the national member state can continue. if there is suspected political interference or otherwise, then a negative vote may be tabled. however, as there was no such suspicion, i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ this was a very technical report which was concerned with loopholes in the existing administrative systems for the detection of customs-related fraud of goods and products. the only roll-call vote in this report was on an amendment put forward by the efdd. this amendment called for the council position in the first reading to be rejected. considering that this is a very draconian action that does more harm than good and does nothing to solve the issue of customs fraud, i voted against this amendment.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour as the agreement should improve the detection of fraud in fuel laundering and tobacco products which damages member state budgets.
in writing. ‒ the background to this resolution is concerned with an eu-ban in 2009 on trade in seal products (mainly fur) which was adopted. two exceptions under which seal products can still be imported have come back into play since then. these exceptions have been challenged by the world trade organization and so the commission had to come with a new proposal to adjust the ban on seal products. there are a number of reasons to impose a ban on the killing of seals including public concerns about the animal welfare aspects of the killing of seals and the possible presence on the market of products obtained from animals killed in a way that causes excessive pain, distress, fear and other forms of suffering. it was for these reasons that i voted in favour of this resolution
in writing. ‒ this report supports the deletion of the maritime management exception and amends the commission’s proposal on the indigenous community’s exception taking into account their right to self-determination and ilo convention no 169. the convention determines the indigenous peoples’ right to traditional lifestyles, culture and making a living. i supported the new text to this report as it brings the eu into conformity with its international obligations and allows seal products resulting from hunts conducted by inuit and other indigenous communities to still be placed on the eu market.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because i believe it strikes a fair balance in how the eu regulates trade in seal products. through this proposal we will have an eu ban on trade in seal products with certain exceptions.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution which contained a number of important provisions, specifically in relation to the substantial animal welfare concerns with cloning. the resolution was seeking to extend a ban on animal cloning to include the cloning of all farm animals, their descendants and products derived from them. the ban will include any imported animal products derived from cloning methods. this cloning ban is very important because cloning leads to cruelty to animals and moreover, there are general ethical issues surrounding cloning methods. moreover, a majority of eu citizens strongly oppose the consumption of food from animal clones. it was for these reasons that i voted in favour of this resolution.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution which contained a number of important provisions, specifically in relation to the substantial animal welfare concerns with cloning. the resolution was seeking to extend a ban on animal cloning to include the cloning of all farm animals, their descendants and products derived from them. the ban will include any imported animal products derived from cloning methods. this cloning ban is very important because cloning leads to cruelty to animals and moreover, there are general ethical issues surrounding cloning methods. moreover, a majority of eu citizens strongly oppose the consumption of food from animal clones. it was for these reasons that i voted in favour of this resolution.
in writing. ‒ i supported the report, which calls for a ban on the cloning of animals, but i do not think a total ban is feasible, especially for the offspring of cloned animals. in terms of global trade such a ban would also be problematic.
in writing. ‒ i supported the report on the situation of fundamental rights in the european union for the period 2013-2014. europe is quick to call for fundamental rights to be upheld around the world, but our member states must also look inward and continue to protect and enforce the european values and fundamental rights enshrined in the treaties and the charter. i voted in favour of amendments 5 and 8 on the rights of asylum-seekers and the principle of solidarity and for paragraphs supporting issues such as freedom of religion and belief, violence against women, lgbti rights and rights of people with disabilities. i also supported the call for an eu mechanism on democracy, the rule of law and fundamental rights and to grant the fra wider powers and greater resources, so that it can monitor the situation in member states and publish an annual monitoring report containing a detailed evaluation of each member state’s performance.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report. the corbett report evaluated the methods and procedures of the commissioners-designate hearing process in 2014 with a view to improving the process next time. the primary concern with this report was the recommendation to change the system for evaluation of the commissioners-designate, specifically the deletion of the possibility for a political group to request a vote in committee on the recommendation of the candidate. my group tabled an amendment together with the greens and the 5* that included the possibility for a political group to request a vote in committee on the recommendation of the candidate in the new evaluation system. as this was not passed, i tabled a negative vote.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report. the corbett report evaluated the methods and procedures of the commissioners-designate hearing process in 2014 with a view to improving the process next time. the primary concern with this report was the recommendation to change the system i for evaluation of the commissioners-designate, specifically the deletion of the possibility for a political group to request a vote in committee on the recommendation of the candidate. i supported an amendment that included the possibility for a political group to request a vote in committee on the recommendation of the candidate in the new evaluation system. as this was not passed, i voted against this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour to review the commissioner hearing process in order to analyse where improvements could be made on procedures and practices regarding these hearings. public hearings are vital in order to assess the commissioner designates on their general competences, european commitment and personal independence. along with alde, i have always called for a gender balanced commission and feel particularly positive on the proposal that asks member states from now on to put forward at least two candidates, one female and one male for consideration by the commissioner president elect.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because it is a very important instrument by which we can measure the success of commissioner hearings. it also gives us the chance to propose some important adjustments to the commissioner hearings process for the next parliamentary term.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, which was initiative report with a roll call vote on the final vote. the report was concerned with icts and their application/usages in surveillance programmes. the report contained some very positive aspects. primarily, it defended and called for the de-criminalisation of whistle-blowers. moreover, the report called for caution when exporting icts to third countries with poor human rights track records. it was for these reasons that i tabled a positive vote.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which was initiative report with a roll call vote on the final vote. the report was concerned with icts and their application/usages in surveillance programmes. the report contained some very positive aspects. primarily, it defended and called for the de-criminalisation of whistle-blowers. moreover, the report called for caution when exporting icts to third countries with poor human rights track records. it was for these reasons that i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report. this report was concerned with streamlining the rules in relation to cap in order to ensure that its implementation is more efficient. it contained some very positive provisions such as support control throughout the value chain, from the producer, administrative stakeholders, paying agencies up to the institutions.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because i believe we need proper oversight in parliament of how one of the biggest sections of the eu budget – the common agricultural policy – is implemented. this report proposes some necessary measures which will help to develop an appropriate framework for the cap in the years to come.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, which highlights the importance of cooperation between stakeholders to make cap controls more efficient, less costly and less bureaucratic.
mr president, i was happy to support this report and the spotlight it puts on family businesses across europe. they form the backbone of our economy, and there is still no clear definition of them, so it does make it difficult to implement necessary legislation. sixty percent of all enterprises in the eu are family-run and they account for 40-50% of our jobs in the private sector. they generally take a long—term view, because they are owner-owned rather than non-owner owned and so they have an eye on the future and on ensuring that the business passes on to future generations. one of the single biggest issues and questions facing family businesses is that of succession and passing on the business: 450 000 companies each year, employing 2 million people, find themselves in this position and, because of many difficulties, it is estimated that 150 000 businesses are forced to close because of the difficulty in passing on the business. we need to create the right framework, we need to recognize that they are important and we need to do more work in this area, but i compliment the rapporteur mrs niebler on producing the report because it is very valuable in highlighting the effect of family businesses.
in writing. ‒ i was pleased to vote in favour of this report which specifically looks at the support for family businesses, particularly in the context of smes have always been a top policy priority for alde. with more than 60% of all enterprises in the eu being family run and accounting for about 45% of jobs in the private sector, family businesses have a crucial role to play in addressing the financial crisis and reviving the economy. with an estimated 150 000 business forced to close every year, we policy-makers need to create the right framework conditions to prevent these losses and provide the necessary cost-efficient infrastructures in order to ensure competitiveness, renewal, growth and sustainability of these family businesses.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because family businesses can play a crucial role in addressing the financial and economic crisis and in reviving the european economy. more than 60% of all enterprises in the eu are family run, and they account for 40-50% of jobs in the private sector. family businesses take a longer-term view than non-owner-run businesses: they want to ensure that the business is also economically successful in the following generations.
mr president, we must look upon the blue economy as an asset, providing incredible opportunities for tourism, energy and food, and new applications for therapeutics and technology. it can create jobs, drive investment, innovation and growth, and i welcome any opportunity that we have to discuss this untapped potential of our blue economy. in ireland at present we are experiencing a significant blue growth, with a 9% increase in marine sector growth over the last five years, and the ocean economy is now valued at 1.3% of gdp. in july, a conference was held on harnessing our ocean wealth which commissioner vella attended, and i know he is really keen to promote and to support any developments in the blue economy area. at that conference we heard from experts that ireland could create up to 29 000 jobs and contribute an additional eur 2.7 billion in growth from our blue economy by 2020. it is an extremely important untapped potential, and any report that focuses on it and its value is to be welcomed.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report. this report contained some very positive provisions, specifically paragraph 5, which underlined the importance of the ecosystem approach and the precautionary principle, which should be at the core of the blue economy. furthermore, it stated that investment in the blue economy should focus on eco-innovation, circular economy and nature conservation (paragraph 30). finally, the report stressed the importance of social dialogue and considered that all social partners involved in the blue economy should be represented (paragraph 62). it was for these reasons that i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ this report deals with how action at eu level can tackle the issues of gaps in knowledge, lack of educated and skilled workers and how this can dilute research efforts in marine and maritime science and hinder interdisciplinary learning and the progress of technology in the blue economy. however i along with alde voted against the report as the adoption of many of the amendments called for an increase in public funding and state aid and a lack of any mention on the role of the private sector in developing the blue economy.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because research and innovation in sectors regarding our oceans and seas can have a very positive economic impact through the creation of jobs and new sectors within the blue economy. the sea and the coast are important drivers of the economy and we need to recognise this.
mr president, entrepreneurship – the ability to start your own business or to identify an opportunity in the marketplace – is something that can be taught. yes, it comes naturally to some people, but it can also be taught in our schools, in our universities, and in our colleges. it is something that the report addresses and i would like to see it included in our curricula in schools, because it is very important to give young people the ability and the confidence to think for themselves and not depend on others to give them information, but instead to have confidence that they, too, can be a successful business person and can use their energy to get out there in the marketplace and develop and innovate. as we know, around five million young people under 25 were unemployed last december in the eu. that unemployment rate is unacceptable, we all agree with that, but what can be done about it? there are a number of facets and one of them is to encourage young people to start their own businesses. in order to give them the confidence to do that we need to provide support, both financial and logistical – to ensure that is in place – and encourage our young people to take up the challenge.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report on promoting youth entrepreneurship through education and training, which is a very important issue in ireland, considering our high youth unemployment levels – which have stagnated at about 20% in the south. entrepreneurship is an important driver of economic growth and job creation. we need to move towards a situation where enterprise, especially at a community level, is encouraged, facilitated and adequately supported. access to finance, and the absence of social welfare and tax benefit supports are huge worries for many entrepreneurs. the focus of this report is on our young people and they do face similar obstacles. our young people are at even more of a disadvantage and it is they who have been hardest hit as a result of the economic crisis. the youth employment initiative has fallen far short of what is required to address this situation, in ireland, and across europe. this report presents an opportunity for us to ensure that our young people who have good and innovative ideas for new start-ups are supported and encouraged in the best way possible.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report on promoting youth entrepreneurship through education and training, which is a very important issue in ireland, considering our high youth unemployment levels – which have stagnated at about 20% in the south. entrepreneurship is an important driver of economic growth and job creation. we need to move towards a situation where enterprise, especially at a community level, is encouraged, facilitated and adequately supported. access to finance, and the absence of social welfare and tax benefit supports are huge worries for many entrepreneurs. the focus of this report is on our young people and they do face similar obstacles. our young people are at even more of a disadvantage and it is they who have been hardest hit as a result of the economic crisis. the youth employment initiative has fallen far short of what is required to address this situation, in ireland, and across europe. this report presents an opportunity for us to ensure that our young people who have good and innovative ideas for new start-ups are supported and encouraged in the best way possible.
in writing. ‒ i supported the report on this important topic - youth entrepreneurship through education and training. although youth unemployment is decreasing slowly, with almost 5 million young people still unemployed through the eu the commission and member states must continue to act to combat this situation. it was welcome that we recently voted to speed up the provision of yei funds to member states but we can do more. one way to do this is by promoting the opportunities for young entrepreneurs to benefit both themselves and society generally. i welcome the report´s call for member states to ensure quality traineeships to promote entrepreneurial skills and that practical entrepreneurial skills should be taught at all levels of education including higher education. i was also very pleased to see the acknowledgement that informal and independent learning, including volunteering, can help young people develop entrepreneurial spirit and skills and this should be recognised. finally i supported the call for the commission to support partnerships between educational institutions and companies via the use of efsi and in particular, the european social fund, to encourage work-based learning in companies and foster entrepreneurship competences at national and local level.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because education is considered a key instrument for meeting the individual needs of citizens and a way to improve their life situation. the rate of youth unemployment in the eu is on average 22%, and in some countries and regions this figure exceeds 50%. this is far too high. we need innovative solutions, and research shows that promoting entrepreneurship though education has a proven positive impact.
in writing. – i voted in favour of this report on promoting youth entrepreneurship through education and training, which is a very important issue in ireland, considering our high youth unemployment levels – which have stagnated at about 20% in the south. entrepreneurship is an important driver of economic growth and job creation. we need to move towards a situation where enterprise, especially at a community level, is encouraged, facilitated and adequately supported. access to finance, and the absence of social welfare and tax benefit supports are huge worries for many entrepreneurs. the focus of this report is on our young people and they do face similar obstacles. our young people are at even more of a disadvantage and it is they who have been hardest hit as a result of the economic crisis. the youth employment initiative has fallen far short of what is required to address this situation, in ireland, and across europe. this report presents an opportunity for us to ensure that our young people who have good and innovative ideas for new start-ups are supported and encouraged in the best way possible.
in writing. ‒ i was very happy to support my colleague´s report on an integrated approach to cultural heritage for europe. although largely a member state competence there are a range of eu supportive measures including significant eu funding from programmes such as creative europe, the european regional development fund or horizon 2020. although faced with the challenges of globalisation and reduced funding there is huge potential for cultural heritage to contribute to growth and job creation. the report’s proposals to have 2018 designated the european year of cultural heritage and to set up of a single eu portal to collect information from all the eu programmes funding cultural heritage will raise awareness and provide a more integrated and supportive approach for those working in the area.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because we need an integrated approach in the domain of cultural heritage. i am very much in favour of the idea of setting up a single eu portal dedicated to cultural heritage, which could be structured around funding opportunities for cultural heritage and a database with examples of best practices and excellence from the field. this is an important report which explores the need to promote cultural heritage through a common approach.
mr president, as one of the instigators and a strong supporter of the citizens’ initiative in the european parliament over the last two terms, i am really pleased today to see that this parliament has supported this european citizens’ initiative and has asked the commission to come forward with a legislative proposal that would recognize universal access to, and the human right to, water. furthermore, this resolution stresses that, by no means, should the commission promote the privatisation of water, and the important words here are ‘by no means’. however, as a strong supporter of subsidiarity, i do not want to open the door and give the commission the right to decide what is included and what is excluded from trade agreements in terms of public services. that right of decision is for member states only, and in our efforts to achieve certain outcomes – namely to exclude water from trade agreements – we need to be careful. as i said, if we give the commission the right to include we also give them the right to exclude and i do not want that. that decision is for member states only.
in writing. ‒ the passing of the report is a victory for the right2water campaigners. it calls on the eu commission to enshrine the human right to water in legislation, to not promote privatisation of water services (including as part of troika demands) and to ensure that water services are not included in the ttip agreement. crucially, as rapporteur, i ensured that there are many references in the text which make it very clear that the eu must stay out of member states’ decision on how they organise their water services and that the commission should remain neutral on the issue which they have not been to date. disappointingly but not surprisingly, fine gael and the unionists were the only irish meps to not vote in favour of this report. having failed to remove the most progressive elements of the report and seemingly content to have eu interference in ireland’s water services they showed their contempt for the right2water campaign. whilst i tried to remove some ambiguous wording in para92 fine gael’s group blocked the vote on the removal. the report as a whole is a massive victory for the human right to water and a step in the right direction for irish citizens.
in writing. ‒ the passing of the report is a victory for the right2water campaigners. it calls on the eu commission to enshrine the human right to water in legislation, to not promote privatisation of water services (including as part of troika demands) and to ensure that water services are not included in the ttip agreement. crucially, i ensured that there are many references in the text making it very clear that the eu must stay out of member states’ decisions on how they organise their water services, and that the commission should remain neutral on the issue which they have not been to date. disappointingly but not surprisingly, fine gael and the unionists were the only irish meps to not vote in favour of this report. having failed to remove the most progressive elements of the report and seemingly content to have eu interference in ireland’s water services they showed their contempt for the right2water campaign. whilst i tried to remove some ambiguous wording in para92, fine gael’s group blocked the vote on the removal. the report as a whole is a massive victory for the human right to water and a step in the right direction for irish citizens.
in writing. ‒ it was very important to carry this text through parliament, to affirm that water and sanitation are public goods we must safeguard from private profit seekers. i voted in favour of this text, steered by my dublin colleague, lynn boylan, so that we can move towards rules that will prevent the commodification of water. we want to safeguard water provision from market rules and any obligations under international trade agreements, and stand opposed to their privatisation. these are amongst the most essential services all citizens require, so the production, distribution and treatment of water and sanitation must be excluded from international trade liberalisation. parliament’s position criticises the european commission’s inaction on foot of a european citizens’ initiative calling for eu legislation to ensure that all citizens have access to clean drinking water and sanitation. back in december 2013, the citizens’ initiative on the right to water was the first ever procedure of this kind to meet the requirement of at least one million eu citizens’ signatures from at least a quarter of the eu member states in one year. the commission’s official response has failed to meet the citizens’ demands or even to make any substantive commitments to secure universal access to water and sanitation.
in writing. ‒ i abstained on the vote on this report and supported an alternative motion. the alternative motion for resolution that i supported respects the principle of providing member states with the freedom to choose their water management systems. at the same time it also respectfully highlights the significance of the european citizens’ initiative, its role in the democratic process and supports its overall objectives. while i stand behind many fundamental aspects of the boylan right2water report i have chosen to abstain, supporting both the inclusion of water and sanitation services references in trade agreements such as ttip and applying a progressive charge proportional to the amount of water used. encouraging eu institutions and member states to be obliged to ensure that all inhabitants enjoy the right to water and sanitation and also increase its efforts to achieve universal access to water and sanitation are ideals which i have always whole heartedly supported.
in writing. ‒ i supported the epp alternative resolution which acknowledges the importance of the european citizen’s initiative and the role it plays in the democratic process, recognising the right to affordable water, support for access to water for vulnerable groups and the need for investment in water services, while respecting the subsidiarity principle providing member states with the freedom to choose their water management systems. i abstained on the boylan report on right2water, while supporting many elements of the report, including applying a progressive charge proportional to the amount of water used (paragraph 92). i support keeping references to ttip in the text even though the commission has pointed out that no trade agreement to date has restricted member states from regulating water services as they choose, and ttip will be no different.
in writing. – i voted in favour of this report on promoting youth entrepreneurship through education and training, which is a very important issue in ireland, considering our high youth unemployment levels – which have stagnated at about 20% in the south. entrepreneurship is an important driver of economic growth and job creation. we need to move towards a situation where enterprise, especially at a community level, is encouraged, facilitated and adequately supported. access to finance and the absence of social welfare and tax benefit supports are huge worries for many entrepreneurs. the focus of this report is on our young people, and they face similar obstacles. our young people are at even more of a disadvantage and it is they who have been hardest hit as a result of the economic crisis. the youth employment initiative has fallen far short of what is required to address this situation in ireland and across europe. this report presents an opportunity for us to ensure that our young people who have good and innovative ideas for new start-ups are supported and encouraged in the best way possible.
the gue/ngl group is the leader. the president is responsible for the main points in the reports and is expected to read them. it is important to develop and invest in the dutch fishing industry, and to take steps to develop a medium-sized fishing industry so that the dutch fishing industry can achieve its goals. the laws on small fisheries are due to competition from laws on the big trawlers, such as those coming from russia or australia or china. slogan they say their tromlach cuibheasach de stoic isisc agus is fíorbheagán a fhágann siad do na hiascairí beaga úd atá ag streachailt. the eu's industrial fleet is no better, no worse. many of the ships in the fleet are now in stock in countries that have banned them. i'm going to go to sea and i'm going to tell a story in irland and i'm going to tell a story in ireland and i'm going to tell a story in ireland and i'm going to tell a story in ireland and i'm going to tell a story in ireland and i'm going to tell a story in ireland and i'm going to tell a story in ireland and i'm going to tell a story in ireland and i'm going to tell a story in ireland and i'm going to tell a story in ireland and i'm going to tell a story in ireland and i'm going to tell a story in ireland and i'm going to tell a story in ireland and i'm going to tell a story in ireland and i'm going to tell a story in ireland and i'm going to tell a story in ireland and i'm going to tell a story in ireland and i'm going to tell a story in ireland and i'm going to tell a story in ireland and i'm going to tell a story in ireland. i hope we will not see the same thing happening in greenland, in madagascar and in guinea-bissau.
mr president, i would like to thank the commissioner for being here tonight, and i would like to thank mr van de camp for his efforts in the balancing act that he has performed over recent months to try to get to some form of a compromise position. this will hopefully lead to a successful outcome tomorrow. the report reflects various areas of transport and emphasises its particular importance in job creation and connecting the outermost regions. most importantly, consumers of those transport services must be at the centre of all our discussions, namely the travelling passengers and the businesses that depend on our transport infrastructure. we need to keep that to the fore in all our discussions. on the whole area of aviation, i look forward to the commission’s package at the end of this year. it is extremely important that we recognise that our carriers are now competing on a global scale, and that needs to be addressed. the world is getting smaller, our businesses and our passengers want to travel to areas outside europe: to asia, the us, australia. our carriers need to be able to compete and we need to open dialogue, particularly with the gulf states, that is very important. we need to start that conversation and get to some sort of aviation agreement in that area. i would like to stress that what is holding back our airlines is that they are uncompetitive on those routes. we need to address the situation.
mr president, solidarity, coordination, humanitarianism, generosity are words that capture not just what commission president juncker said this morning, but i think are reflected across the house today, and i welcome that. and i am sure my own country ireland will not be found wanting in those qualities as well when taking in more refugees. i have two questions. one, pope francis suggested that each catholic diocese take in a family. can this be incorporated into european policy, and how can it be done? and would other churches join in as well? secondly, president tusk has rightly condemned people smugglers as murderers, and i am at a loss as to why we cannot deal with them more effectively, and in particular confiscate their boats, because they are the real culprits in this and they need to be dealt with effectively.
in writing.– in response to president juncker’s state of the union address i want to highlight the need for a radical shift in migration policies across eu countries. we are facing a large scale humanitarian crisis and it must be recognised that the attitudes and policies followed up until now have not worked. i condemn the current crisis and believe that every eu country needs to seriously think about increasing the number of refugees they have committed themselves to take. in addition, i would call upon countries to suspend the dublin regulations for those arriving from countries such as syria, eritrea and sudan, where refugees are desperately fleeing war zones. these regulations are simply not practical in the present circumstances and create unnecessary burdens for displaced people genuinely seeking safety. ireland is a country that understands the pains of these issues having experienced over a century and a half of migration. it is part of our history and part of our personality. now we must come together to do more and welcome refugees from dangerous and war-torn countries. we as eu member states have a shared responsibility to prevent human suffering so it is time we start to show a humane and proportionate response.
in writing. ‒ i supported the request for the delegation for relations with the palestinian legislative council to change its name so that the title will be aligned with that of other inter-parliamentary delegations. in this way, its work can be compared to the work of other councils.
in writing. ‒ while this recommendation contained some positive merits, specifically when it comes to investing in sustainable small-scale fisheries and socio-economic development, it failed to promote the more genuinely sustainable development of guinea-bissau’s fisheries sector and of related industries and activities, in particular small scale fisheries that greatly contribute to food security and local livelihoods. moreover, it can be argued that the agreement does not go far enough in the context of securing and guaranteeing employment for local fishermen on-board eu vessels, it more or less states that opportunities for it employment should be exploited. furthermore, while there is acknowledgment of the importance of gathering data on catches and conservation, there is not enough emphasis on the environment and conservation. it was for these reasons amongst others that i voted against this recommendation.
in writing. ‒ while this report contained some positive merits specifically when it comes to investing in sustainable small-scale fisheries and socio-economic development, it failed to promote the more genuinely sustainable development of guinea-bissau’s fisheries sector and of related industries and activities, in particular small scale fisheries that greatly contribute to food security and local livelihoods. moreover, it can be argued that the agreement does not go far enough in the context of securing and guaranteeing employment for local fishermen on-board eu vessels, it more or less states that opportunities for it employment should be exploited. furthermore, while there is acknowledgment of the importance of gathering data on catches and conservation, there is not enough emphasis on the environment and conservation. it was for these reasons amongst others that i voted against this report.
in writing. – the file does have some merits especially when it comes to investing in sustainable small-scale fisheries and socio-economic development. as guinea bisau is a developing country it has an underdeveloped monitoring and surveillance system for fisheries and hence there is a significant problem with illegal fishing, especially by large russian and chinese trawlers. the agreement states it will help develop surveillance. there is acknowledgment of the importance of gathering data on catches and conservation. however it can be argued that the agreement does not go far enough in the context of securing and guaranteeing employment for local fishermen on-board eu vessels, it more or less states that opportunities for it employment should be exploited. there is also a risk of eu vessels from larger fishing fleets who will exploit this opportunity. with the positives and negatives in mind i abstained.
in writing. ‒ there were some positive aspects to this recommendation. cape verde archipelago is a tiny, poor but democratic and politically stable african state. there is no reason to suggest that the government will not spend the money the country it will receive from the eu as a financial compensation for more fishing licences – eur 3.3million – in the best way possible. furthermore, the commission stated this fishing protocol will be in line with the principles of a sustainable exploitation of natural resources. however, there were a number of concerning aspects in this recommendation e.g. the local fishing communities have systematically denounced the ‘unfair’ competition they face with the presence of much bigger and modern european vessels in their waters. in the local press, they claim that the eu should help them instead to buy better engines to equip their artisanal, small boats. it was for these reasons that i abstained on this recommendation.
in writing. ‒ there were some positive aspects to this report. cape verde archipelago is a tiny, poor but democratic and politically stable african state. there is no reason to suggest that the government will not spend the money the country it will receive from the eu as a financial compensation for more fishing licences – eur 3.3million – in the best way possible. furthermore, the commission stated this fishing protocol will be in line with the principles of a sustainable exploitation of natural resources. however, there were a number of concerning aspects in this report e.g. the local fishing communities have systematically denounced the ‘unfair’ competition they face with the presence of much bigger and modern european vessels in their waters. in the local press, they claim that the eu should help them instead to buy better engines to equip their artisanal, small boats. it was for these reasons that i abstained on this report.
in writing. ‒ it must be noted that the agreement is much better than previous ones on how close eu-vessels are allowed to fish (further out than before), it takes account of the new, mostly good, eu policy on sustainable fishing and gives higher financial compensation/payment as well as better help to local fishery communities. however, while there were some positive aspects to this report, nevertheless, local fishermen will still not get the brunt of the benefits of this agreement and some of the local fishermen groups have been very negative (others more positive though). it was for these reasons that i voted against this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report which contained a number of upsetting provisions. the agreement concerned the extension of the scope of the competence of the world trade organisation to the issue of trade facilitation, mainly in favour of corporate and industrialised countries. it was for these reasons, amongst others that i tabled a negative vote.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report which contained a number of perturbing provisions. the agreement concerned the extension of the scope of the competence of the world trade organisation to the issue of trade facilitation, mainly in favour of corporate and industrialised countries. it was for these reasons, amongst others that i tabled a negative vote.
madam president, i was pleased to support this report today, which proposes to relocate 40 000 asylum seekers from italy and greece to other member states over the next two years. this is a badly needed emergency response. it is a temporary derogation from existing rules, and only asylum seekers in clear need of international protection will be eligible. i agree with what vice-president timmermans said here today: this is a defining moment in european history. and i, like him, am pleased to see the huge response from ordinary people who want to help in whatever way they can. i have received many emails from irish people offering rooms in their homes, offering houses, offering help in different guises – and it makes me proud to be irish and to be european when i see the welcoming committees right across the continent. finally i commend the proposal from the pope that every parish should take in an asylum-seeking family, because, in the case of those who do not wish to return, this will help to integrate them into the community.
the president was pleased to support the report and voted with my group in all the votes. it was also interesting to note that there was a greater part of the work done by the parliament in this area. the skin of the dhaonra is deep and 75% of the dhaonra is inhabited by the mbailte morra and the gcathracha. therefore, caithfimid gach rud to make chun ar gcathracha agus ar mbailte more to chur chun cinn, especially on the side fhas an gheilleagair of. there should be an education and sport for young people; a language for older people and a culture for older people. rud eile, should have gone to the air fools in the cathracha. what is to be done, caithfimid directed ar thaisteal, go háirithe, níos mó rothar agus níos mó mó mótoin leictreach, agus ar thithe nach mbeidh astaíochtaí ag teacht astu sea is faoi láthair. i could do it. it's an important subject and we can help you.
in writing. ‒ the purpose of this own—initiative report was to examine the urban policy challenges for eu policy makers and to propose ideas for the improvement of the coordination and the coherence of eu urban policy. the report proposed a bottom-up and partnership approach in urban policies, under a new model of multilevel governance that would enhance the participation of cities, towns and their representatives in the shaping of urban related policies and in management and governance of programmes supported by eu funding. many of my groups gue-ngl amendments were included in the final text in order to improve vital parts of it. it was for these reasons that i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ the purpose of this own-initiative report was to examine the urban policy challenges for eu policy makers and to propose ideas for the improvement of the coordination and the coherence of eu urban policy. the report proposed a bottom-up and partnership approach in urban policies, under a new model of multilevel governance that would enhance the participation of cities, towns and their representatives in the shaping of urban related policies and in management and governance of programs supported by eu funding. many of my groups gue-ngl amendments were included in the final text in order to improve vital parts of it. it was for these reasons that i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted with alde and the majority of the european parliament in favour of the report on the urban dimension of eu policies. with as many as 75%-80% of europeans are living in cities, it is imperative that we support the new model of multi-level governance, cross-sector and eu commission coordination of urban related polices. we need to strongly support the environmental, transportation, educational and employment needs of urban areas in order to ensure they are attractive places to live and work and furthermore cater for the needs of different sectors and age groups in society across member states.
mr president, i am a member of the iranian delegation. i met the iranian ambassador to ireland last friday. i came in here for one minute, to speak for one minute, and you tell me i cannot speak. you allowed my good friend behind me to give two blue cards. you allowed another speaker to speak for one minute and 45 seconds in a one-minute speech. how do you expect us to come here to sit in debates when we are not even allowed to speak at the very end in the ‘catch-the-eye’? it is ridiculous.
mr president, i want to say firstly that the high representative deserves great credit. one thing she did say that surprised me, however, is that this agreement was not based on trust. well, if it was not based on trust, how was it arrived at at all? certainly the implementation of it will need a lot of trust, for all those who are committed to it. there is a great opportunity here for the european union to give leadership in that regard, and to show trust by helping to lift the sanctions. when those sanctions are lifted, so that the iranian people and the regime in iran will see the benefits, that may lead to opportunities to have a more enlightened approach to human rights and to their neighbours, particularly israel.
president of the council. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the economic and financial crisis, which in many member states has also become a social crisis, has led to an increase in the number of unemployed, even though we are now pleased that the unemployment rate has fallen slightly, albeit very slightly, and at the same time has led to the reduction, in many cases, of social benefits and entitlements to them. the crisis has also contributed to the increase in precarious work. this has serious implications for our economies, for stability and social cohesion, and ultimately for the sustainability of our social protection systems. the possibility for those who wish to have access to paid employment is one of the fundamental values of our society, as you have pointed out. i believe that in the treaties the idea of a social market economy refers to an economy with high levels of employment, but with quality jobs. it is therefore a key element for social recognition and participation in society. in the past this was equivalent to a stable job and, to the extent desired, to a full-time job. in recent decades, the forms of industrial relations have become considerably more diverse and, quite often, worse. this trend has been accentuated during the crisis. more and more workers are not in permanent employment and are having difficulty in obtaining it. sometimes they do not even succeed and therefore really plunge into a lasting precariousness. people in precarious jobs are often confronted with poor quality work, poor pay, poverty at work, insecurity and vulnerability. you did mention that. we are now seeing a growing category of working poor, people who have jobs but who, in fact, can no longer live on the wages of their work. a 2012 report by the european parliament's research service showed that almost 10% of europe's working-age population was poor. i wonder, because we had a strategy which was the 2020 strategy, one of the big social objectives of which was a significant reduction of 20 million. it was therefore a quantified and not negligible objective to reduce the number of poor people in europe by 20 million. we have not achieved that goal. i believe that when we are renewing the 2020 strategy we really need to focus on finding new ways and means of achieving this objective of reducing poverty in europe. a global approach is therefore needed. we need to focus on the different aspects of quality of work. it is clear that we want to create jobs, to return to a high level of employment, or even to achieve full employment. but full employment is not enough. it is not just about bringing us back to full employment but also about creating quality jobs. when we talk about quality jobs, we mean pay, adequate benefits and working conditions, and safety and health at the workplace. tomorrow in luxembourg a conference on safety and health at work and working conditions will be held. we believe that this debate on working conditions, particularly in the context of the european strategy on health and safety, is extremely important and that europe will of course have to renew this strategy on safety and health. as regards access to education and vocational training, i must welcome the report on the competitiveness of labour markets, as it highlights the importance of vocational training and shows very clearly that if we want to have inclusive, indeed competitive, labour markets, one of the keys is access to training. i believe that in the long term, in europe, in order to cope with the changes in the labour market and the technological revolution, we must ensure that every employee and every worker has a genuine right to training, because training is the guarantee of securing their professional careers. we know that the economy is undergoing a great deal of change and evolution and that we cannot guarantee that someone will be able to keep the same job for the rest of his life as he did thirty, forty or fifty years ago. but we must give every worker the guarantee that he will be able to keep up with this evolution of the labour market and find a job if his disappears. combating and preventing undeclared work will also help to improve the quality of employment for those working in precarious conditions. in this connection, i hope that the negotiations between our two institutions on the decision to establish a platform to combat undeclared work can be concluded as soon as possible. a trilogue took place this week; we have to move on. the presidency's objective is to achieve this by the end of the year. young people - you mentioned them - are a particularly vulnerable group, as are others, for example, the disabled, who have great difficulty in the labour market. good quality work is one of the key elements of the 2013 council recommendation on the creation of the youth guarantee. the main recommendation aims to ensure that all young people under 25 receive a good quality job offer, an offer of continuing education, apprenticeship or traineeship within four months of being dismissed or leaving formal education. i also refer to a commission recommendation on traineeships because i believe that as important as traineeships are for young people and for their integration into the labour market, we must also recognise that there is abuse of traineeships. in germany, there is a term called generation praktikum, which refers to young people who go from one internship to another without any real pay, without any social security and without any prospect of finding a permanent contract. as a result, these young people live in real poverty for many years. i would also add that parliament has, in fact, been dealing a great deal with this aspect of traineeships for some years now and i believe that there are of course states which have regulated or have regulated this question of traineeships. it is necessary, especially for young people, to find coherent solutions in this area. i would also add that women are disproportionately represented in precarious employment. they may have very short working hours, receive low pay and have limited access to benefits. and let's not even talk about their pension rights! in fact, we are creating new sources of poverty. yes, there is the question of the social minimum wage and i welcome the introduction of a social minimum wage in your country of origin. but in europe, i think there are 21 or 22 countries that have a social minimum wage. the social minimum wage is therefore not in itself a guarantee against poverty. it all depends, of course, on the level of this minimum wage. i believe that we must make the organization of work and the labour market, as has also been presented in this very interesting report on competitiveness and labour markets, a major topic in europe again, precisely to ensure that economic recovery also goes hand in hand with new social guarantees and social progress. i see here too an important role for the social partners. the latvian presidency has made the social dialogue a major topic. i believe that the social partners have an important role to play. i would also like to remind you that there is a framework agreement that was concluded in europe in 2010 on inclusive labour markets and that this framework agreement between the social partners provided for a number of interesting elements to prevent precariousness, to make labour markets work better and guarantee social rights. the social dialogue must be encouraged and promoted at both european and national level. this also means that the right to collective agreements must be preserved because there is no social dialogue without a strong right to collective bargaining. i would add a word on the wage policy. wage policy has two aspects: the social aspect, namely the ability to live off one's work. but there is also an economic dimension. we can see this today in the sharing of added value in europe and the united states. it is not for nothing that president obama is strongly committed to raising wages in the united states. this recovery and sharing also has an important economic dimension. finally, the luxembourg presidency has made the social dimension one of its priorities. i would also like to mention in this context the social and solidarity economy, which was presented in the other excellent report, which i welcome. the presidency has also made the promotion of the social and solidarity-based economy one of its main priorities, since we will be organising a major conference in luxembourg in december on the promotion of social entrepreneurship and we will propose to the council that it adopt conclusions on the development, strengthening and promotion of the social economy in general and of social entrepreneurship in particular. we must know that precarious employment is harmful to cohesion and to our economies. it's blocking the prospects of an entire generation of young people. this risks leading to a vicious circle of increasing inequalities and generating both insecurity and instability.
vice-president of the commission.– mr president, minister, honourable members of the european parliament, i am pleased to contribute at this point to the joint debate on a series of essential topics related to the eu labour market. they touch upon the challenges we need to address in order to firmly anchor the eu into recovery, economic growth, job creation and social progress. the european commission wants a aaa social rating for the eu and the recent five presidents’ report makes it clear that the notion of convergence is at the heart of the economic union. the two own-initiative reports, the dlabajová report and the lope fontagné report, focus on important topics for our labour markets and we see that their conclusions are generally supportive of the commission’s policies. we want quality jobs and the skilled workers that we need to support recovery. we support social innovation that helps protect our societies. first, on the oral question on precarious employment: it is undeniable that the crisis has had a significant social impact on the labour market, particularly the increase in unemployment, under-employment and precarious employment. precariousness is difficult to define and monitor statistically, but we can approach it via the evolution of temporary contracts and part-time work. let me be clear that temporary work and part-time work do not necessarily equate to precarious work as they also introduce necessary flexibility to the labour market. the figures confirm that temporary work follows an economic cycle. they first declined in 2008, but they also first recovered in 2013. actually, they increased by 8.7 % during this period. that is to say part-time employment increased by 8.7 % during that period but, on the contrary, full-time employment decreased dramatically. even though the creation of full-time jobs outnumbers the creation of part-time jobs since 2014, those figures still remain 4.6 % below the 2008 level. hence, there are signals of recovery but serious challenges remain. initiatives have already been introduced at eu level to determine a minimum set of rights for workers who are subject to the more precarious forms of contracts, namely the three directives on fixed-term, part-time and temporary agency work. it is worth recalling that two of those directives – i.e. on fixed-term and part-time work – are the fruit of social dialogue since they are based on a framework agreement between europe’s trade unions and employers. they all aim to guarantee decent working conditions for the workers concerned, notably ensuring the principle of equal treatment while providing businesses with the flexibility they need to overcome traditional difficulties and ensure their development. while the fixed-term and part-time directives are being currently evaluated, the european commission has already released a report on the temporary agency work directive. this report was published last year and it concludes that the directive has been correctly implemented and applied and that there is no need for revising it at this stage. the commission would rather focus on ensuring its proper implementation. new forms of employment have been developed, some with a clear risk of precariousness. undeclared work and bogus self-employment are among the most harmful forms of precarious employment. we monitor these developments and we consider action at eu level where appropriate. furthermore, in the framework of the european semester on economic policy coordination, the european commission recommends that member states tackle the segmentation of labour markets and fight undeclared work. in 2014, we also proposed to create a platform to prevent and deter undeclared work. the proposal is under discussion by the co-legislators and the commission expects an agreement to be reached in the near future so that the platform can be set up without delay. the commission is also examining whether a strengthened set of eu social rights for the protection of those in and out of work would be needed, notably in the light of new forms of employment. the role of social partners is permanent. while consultation with social partners in the european semester is being strengthened and streamlined at eu level, the involvement in the design and implementation of national reforms also needs to be strengthened. low-skilled workers who may be caught in a vicious circle unless we take the issues of skills seriously are more affected by precariousness. in order to fight unemployment, guarantee quality in employment and allow europe to grow in a sustainable way, we need to ensure the right skills for our workers. we therefore welcome mrs dlabajová’s report, which sets out a number of ways to achieve those goals and enrich the european skills agenda which we are currently developing. we converge on three key policy needs. first, together with all labour market stakeholders, anticipating skills needs and access skills gaps across the eu. second, developing skills with more and better vocational education and training and apprenticeships and thereby bringing skills closer to the labour market’s needs. finally, improving recognition of skills formally or informally acquired at any point in time across member states and sectors, which is essential to support mobility as a factor of employability and competitiveness. on the lope fontagné report on social entrepreneurship and social innovation, this is another sector which helps to fight unemployment and encourage work is social entrepreneurship. its role is rightly underscored in the lope fontagné report. many good actions have been taken both at eu and member state level, but we agree that there is room and need for further concrete initiatives. we need a comprehensive approach as it is especially important for social enterprises to combine better access to finance with better visibility and to develop a vision and enabling regulatory framework. finance is not enough if visibility and proper recognition by policy makers at all levels are not ensured. the commission provides several channels of financial support but it is also taking initiatives, for instance with the oecd, to better understand the sector and support member states in their efforts to build up an environment conducive to social enterprises. moreover, i agree with the rapporteurs that we need to promote social innovation since it plays a critical role in modernising our social protection systems. social innovation is also financially supported both in the european social fund and in the employment and social innovation programme. i look forward to a fruitful and interesting discussion.
on behalf of the alde group.– mr president, three points. first of all, i want to thank ms lope fontagné for her excellent cooperation and congratulate her on her very comprehensive report on social entrepreneurship and social innovation in combating unemployment. we have heard that these enterprises employ 14 million people and contribute to social inclusion, rural and regional development and environmental protection. crucially, these jobs cannot be outsourced. yet in my opinion, these enterprises deserve greater support than at present. i fully support the recommendations in this report, in particular the need for a legal framework. secondly, precarious employment: commissioner dombrovskis has told us that it is difficult to define and monitor precarious work. i say to him that this may be true, but equally what most people want is a decent job that will enable them to support themselves and their families. you quoted figures from the commission’s own social and economic report for the last quarter. but there is another statistic from that report which tells us that in the final quarter of 2015 two thirds of the jobs created were permanent, one third were temporary. the question is: will that one third support families? probably not. we can and must do better. finally, a comment on the excellent report from my colleague martina dlabajová on matching skills and qualifications with demand and job opportunities. her report contains all of the pieces of the jigsaw puzzle that are necessary to match skills and jobs.
on behalf of the gue/ngl group.– mr president, it is a very opportune time to have this debate, in particular for my constituents and the people of my home county. when it comes to the sustainability of the irish health service it is quite clear that it is not sustainable, and one of the reasons is because we are haemorrhaging money paying for the collapse of a banking system, a system that collapsed but for which we – and not the speculators – paid the price. eur 11 million is all that is needed in funding to keep the 90 residents in place at this home that helps our health system, but we cannot afford to pay for it. i heard today mr juncker say that we made sure taxpayers never again have to pay for the greed of financial speculators. well that is wonderful, mr juncker, but the reality is that people in ireland are still paying for this every day, and the eur 11 million that the people of roscommon need, instead of it going to healthcare, well last year eur one billion was borrowed and destroyed, and ireland got nothing for it. this year eur 500 million will be destroyed and we will get nothing for it. how can you have a sustainable healthcare system when the taxation that is paid for our health and for our education is spent on paying back a debt that was never ours? in 2016, we will have to pay eur 500 million a year again and burn it, same in 2017, same in 2018. how the hell can that be sustainable? i thought you were here to help us. you are haemorrhaging us. you are destroying us. you are killing us.
madam president, i think this is a very important topic. firstly, i think we should be looking at how we actually make european law. in that regard, i welcome the new commission’s ambition to have less red tape and to be more relevant to our treaties; and that can dovetail with mr cameron’s desire for reform. i think one thing we should look at is when amendments or proposals are put down that are matters of subsidiarity, no matter how popular or desirable they are, we should have a mechanism that would allow us to strike them out straightaway. that would improve matters a lot. secondly, in the application of european law, as some of my colleagues have said, there is too much gold-plating going on and, of course, the european union gets blamed as a result. that is something we should try and avoid as well. finally, the cost of application and implementation is far too high. i believe in the common agricultural policy (cap) it is something like eur 4 billion per year. that is something we should certainly look at.
the president, i join the laws in the courts to condemn what is happening in angola, especially lately. it's too bad. as i said, angola is a rich country; at least it has the resources to do so, but it has a richness that goes back to a million years, and 60% of the people are farmers and farmers. therefore, it is important that the angolan authorities should be free to take action against the people, i.e. free to speak, free to have their religion and free to hold meetings, and especially free to prevent violence against each other and to prevent the use of force against each other. i therefore support this report and hope that we can do something to improve the laws in our country for the sake of our citizens.
mr president, i one hundred per cent agree that we need to put every pressure possible on azerbaijan to respect human rights. that is really what this proposal today is all about. for that reason, it is unfortunate that the epp find themselves in the position that they cannot back this resolution, and we have got to take a lesson from that. we have to do everything, prior to coming to parliament, to try and get a joint resolution that all parties and all groups can sign up to. for us, the suggestion that we should ‘immediately’ break off negotiations with azerbaijan makes no sense, because if we were to do that and apply it to other countries in the world then we would have negotiations with no-one. if you took that line with iran, we would not be talking about the nuclear deal right now. so it is for that reason in particular – that of over-extending ourselves and doing things for one country that we do not do for another country – that we find ourselves in the position we are today. we want to see human rights restored and respect in azerbaijan, but there is a way we can all do it together.
mr president, this is a particularly important report, which promotes investment for jobs and growth in eu regions. far too often we see investment concentrated in cities and urban areas without due consideration to balancing development across the eu. strong countries need strong regions, and a strong eu needs strong regions. the cohesion policy is the main tool that we have to promote strong regions, and it takes up one-third of the budget. if we are to promote jobs and growth in rural areas and in regions, we absolutely have to ensure access to regional and rural broadband. we cannot have a digital union unless there is access to digital technologies throughout the union. this is absolutely crucial. for example, in ireland, we do not have access to digital technologies across the country. therefore words like ‘balanced regional development’ and ‘equality of opportunity’ are meaningless until we ensure that access.
mr president, i have supported this report on the evaluation of the european year of active ageing. i believe that the elderly are an extremely important part of our population that will be continuously strengthened, and that the european union needs to support active ageing, to support the expansion of the capacities of our elderly, for example by increasing their computer literacy, in order to support families that are able to integrate their elderly. i think it's really important to see the differences between countries in how they care for their seniors. and that care is not just about what benefits we give to seniors, how high pensions are, but it's about what active livelihoods we allow them to have. so i hope that the year of active ageing 2012 will continue and that the programmes will not end with us evaluating the report and more or less forgetting this important material.
mr president, i voted in favour of this report on active ageing and solidarity between the generations. active ageing refers to many things: to health, anti-discrimination, access to adult education, transport, long-term care, also to the burden on family carers, and to employment and pensions. but this report is not just about active ageing. it is also about solidarity between the generations. we sent a very strong signal from this parliament when we called on the commission to assess the feasibility and added value of a new eu financial instrument to provide a minimum income for all eu citizens living below the poverty line. while i fully accept that minimum income is a member state competence, nonetheless, if there is added value to an eu instrument, then at least parliament needs to know. finally, we also referred to the fact that we deplore a situation where people’s patterns of employment are becoming more insecure. while this affects all citizens, it particularly affects young people.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report. the report’s title suggests it is an assessment of the eu’s year of active ageing, but that is only one element of it and it goes well beyond. there is a lot of good content in the report that i would support in terms of preventing discrimination against older people, ensuring participation in public life, at-work inter-generational mentoring and more. but a major element of the report focuses on raising the member states’ retirement ages, which it frames as being mandatory and inevitable, and also contains a proposal that would have the effect of reducing the pension for long-term unemployed people. i voted against this report on the basis of the calls to raise the retirement age and pension issues.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report. the report’s title suggests it is an assessment of the eu’s year of active ageing, but that is only one element of it and it goes well beyond. there is a lot of good content in the report that i would support in terms of preventing discrimination against older people, ensuring participation in public life, at-work inter-generational mentoring and more. but a major element of the report focuses on raising the member states’ retirement ages, which it frames as being mandatory and inevitable, and also contains a proposal that would have the effect of reducing the pension for long-term unemployed people. i voted against this report on the basis of the calls to raise the retirement age and pension issues.
in writing. ‒ the european commission is preparing its update to the white paper on transport. this report is the ep’s input into this procedure. the report stresses that the mid-term review of the white paper should maintain at least the level of ambition of the goals set in 2011. it contains a set of actions that need to be taken to achieve those goals. the report includes good initiatives, e.g. those to improve the energy-efficiency of transport, to promote public transport, the need to abolish environmentally harmful tax subsidies and prevent social dumping in transport sector europe. it was for these reasons that i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ i supported the speeding—up of the implementation of all the initiatives in the report of the 2011 white paper on transport. the european commission adopted in 2011 a roadmap of 40 initiatives to build a competitive transport system to increase mobility, remove major barriers in key areas and fuel growth and employment. the review of this paper serves to increase and streamline those 40 initiatives. a stronger harmonisation of the european transport area and a fairer competition in transport must be developed. of particular importance is the need for achieving the single european sky and the 4th railway package, and resolving the anglo-spanish dispute over gibraltar.
mr president, i voted in favour of this report on women’s careers in science and at university. in particular, i want to refer to the situation in ireland, where the equality tribunal decided in december of last year that, in the case of micheline sheehy skeffington, there was both direct and indirect discrimination against women in the process of promotion to senior lecturer. this is not the only case of gender discrimination in irish universities in recent years. in fact, in 2009 only 10% of senior academic posts were held by women and, after malta, ireland has the second highest glass-ceiling index for women in higher education. yes, there has been a response from the third-level colleges, but it remains uneven. in this context, i welcome this motion and some of the things we called for to address gender imbalances in the decision-making process: gender-based budgeting, the increased participation of women in decision-making, and gender equality plans as a precondition for access to public funding in research, science and academia.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, which proposes measures to enable women to progress further in careers in academia and science. while 59% of university graduates in the eu-28 are women, they account for only 18% of university professors. the report calls for implementation of positive measures in order to increase women’s presence at higher levels in academia, science, and the research and technology sector. it urges the european commission and the member states to analyse their relevant laws and revise them if necessary in order to enforce equal treatment of women and men. the report states the principle of non-discrimination must be observed in all types of employment contract or funding, and the legal right to equal pay for equal work must be respected. it calls for election and promotion processes to be open and transparent, for the facilitation of better work-life balance and childcare services; and for positive campaigns aimed at girls and women encouraging them to enter academic and research careers in all scientific fields.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which contained a number of positive provisions regarding gender equality. this report highlighted that despite positive changes in recent years, gender equality in science and academia has still not been achieved. women have an extremely low presence in the highest academic and decision-making positions in scientific institutions and universities. while 59 % of university graduates in the eu-28 are women, they account for only 18 % of full university professors. this is unacceptable in a society that is meant to be based on equality and fairness. i was very disappointed that this report did not contain the amendments put forward by my group, gue-ngl, in relation to the maternity leave directive. this is a very important issue and a matter that my party will continue to pro-actively address both in ireland and at an eu level.
mr president, this report on empowering girls through education should ring bells with all of us in parliament. surely we cannot have forgotten malala yousafzai and her inspiring speech on how girls are empowered through education. knowledge is power, and we live in a knowledge economy. in this report, i supported the proposal that the eu accede to the istanbul convention and indeed that member states ratify the convention, and also that the eu and member states work together for gender equality in the eu’s external relations. i am happy to support age-appropriate sex education and relationship education: indeed, i encourage member states to make such sex education compulsory for secondary and primary school children. i know it is a member state competence, but that is my view. ‘age-appropriate’, of course, are the key words here. most of our young people have access to the internet, to the world wide web, with all its pluses and minuses. they need to be armed with age—appropriate sex and relationship education. if not, they are not empowered to deal with what they see and hear.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this positive report, which focuses on the critical role of the education system in the eu in reaching the goal of gender equality. this is an important issue not only in ireland but right across the eu, and beyond. the report highlights the role of education in empowering girls to reach economic independence in the future. it calls for a concerted effort to be made against negative gender stereotypes in schools, the media and advertising; for increasing the presence of women in science, technology, engineering and mathematics; and for member states to provide targeted support for disadvantaged families. it also calls for the member states to consider making age-appropriate education on sex and healthy relationships compulsory in school curricula. the report points out that formal and informal education programmes must address gender-based violence, gender discrimination, harassment, homophobia and transphobia, in all their forms, including forms of cyber-bullying or online harassment.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which contained some very progressive and positive provisions. the report calls for implementation and improvement measures to apply gender equality at all levels of education systems, including training of teachers, school professionals and curricula. it sought to address crucial matters such as the recognition of age appropriate sex and relationship education, and awareness about lgbt issues at school in a sensitive and enlightened manner.
in writing. ‒ in the eu, the gap between women’s education and their professional development is still very wide. this needs to be addressed, and not only in order to achieve gender equality. closing the gap between women's educational attainment and their professional achievement will help long-term economic growth. specific programmes for marginalised communities, for roma girls for example, should be established in member states to make sure that primary, secondary and higher education is followed through. we need to do more in order to increase the number of girls and women in education. however, education alone does not cut it. a change of mentality on gender values are what will make our society more fair and just for everyone.
in writing. ‒ this report was concerned with the position of the parliament on the current situation in the eea-efta states and the eu regarding the proper functioning of the eea agreement (european economic area). it was primarily focused on switzerland and sought to exercise pressure on switzerland for the conclusion of a framework agreement which is set as a precondition for further agreements on swiss participation in the internal market. i was particularly concerned with this aspect as this is a matter for the people of switzerland to decide and not the eu. moreover, it must be noted that switzerland’s participation in the eea agreement was questioned by its people in a vote in 1992 and therefore the eea agreement after that is based mainly on sectorial agreements. however, there were some positive aspects to the report. specifically amendments, which referred to the latest referendum that took place in switzerland (popular initiative of 9 february 2014 ‘against mass immigration’) which stated that the result of the referendum in switzerland, should be respected. in light of these conflicting aspects of the report, i abstained on the final vote.
in writing. ‒ this report was concerned with the position of the parliament on the current situation in the eea-efta states and the eu regarding the proper functioning of the eea agreement (european economic area). it was primarily focused on switzerland and sought to exercise pressure on switzerland for the conclusion of a framework agreement which is set as a precondition for further agreements on swiss participation in the internal market. i was particularly concerned with this aspect as this is a matter for the people of switzerland to decide and not the eu. moreover, it must be noted that switzerland’s participation in the eea agreement was questioned by its people in a vote in 1992 and therefore the eea agreement after that is based mainly on sectorial agreements. however, there were some positive aspects to the report. specifically amendments, which referred to the latest referendum that took place in switzerland (popular initiative of 9 february 2014 ‘against mass immigration’) which stated that the result of the referendum in switzerland, should be respected. in light of these conflicting aspects of the report, i abstained on the final vote.
in writing. ‒ i vote in favour of this report due to the fact that the eea agreement is a key factor for economic growth and the most far-reaching, comprehensive instrument to extent the single market to third countries. additionally taking into account the internal developments in the eu, it has proven to be a solid, efficient and well-functioning agreement ensuring the integrity of the single market. lastly the strong relations between the eu, the eea efta countries and switzerland go beyond economic integration and the extension of the single market but contribute to stability and prosperity to the benefit of all citizens and businesses.
mr president, i supported this resolution on migration and refugees in europe. this is an emergency response to an overwhelming humanitarian disaster. we cannot turn our backs on these desperate asylum seekers and the eu must reach some kind of coherent position. we thought that the financial crisis was a test for europe and it was, but this current migrant crisis is an even greater test. can we dig deep and act in common humanity? i commend the proposal from pope francis that each parish take in a refugee family and i commend all of those ngos, ordinary individuals and local authorities who are welcoming the refugees. but in the medium term, we need to establish safe and legal routes to the eu, and perhaps a blue card, but also we need to return those economic migrants who arrive illegally. both actions will help to deter the people traffickers. we need to work with unhcr to support and manage the refugee camps in north africa, and we need to establish safe zones there also.
in writing. ‒ i endorse the european commission plan's to relocate 160,000 refugees, and for a complete review the rules governing asylum seeker requests. in contrast to the spontaneous acts of individual citizens’ generosity as this humanitarian crisis unfolds, we have had to shame many eu national governments into behaving with a modicum of decency. just look at the pressure that poorer neighbouring countries to syria are bearing from the influx of refugees. the only thing that compares, over here in europe, is the exaggeration over the magnitude of the inflows we receive. the dublin asylum system has become a byword for the worst kind of nimybism, where governments refuse to assume responsibility because of an accident of geography, when the lives of people fleeing war are at stake. we need to issue humanitarian visas for syrian refugees. we must scrap our current approach in favour of rules that ensure a fair distribution of refugees, while preventing the break-up of families in times of crisis. the juncker commission is showing leadership and is willing to address these structural flaws in the long term, yet even these timid steps, in the face of urgent humanitarian needs, are being resisted by many eu member states.
mr president, i supported this resolution on belarus, but i specifically want to explain my vote on amendment 1. this amendment expressed concern at the decision to build a nuclear plant in ostrovets, and called on belarus to stop its construction until a fully independent environmental impact assessment is carried out. i fully subscribe to the idea that all countries have an absolute right to decide on their energy sources. however, there are two important issues here. first of all, we are not asking them to stop, full stop. we are only asking them to carry out a full independent assessment. secondly, the building of a nuclear reactor has global implications. it is not like erecting a few wind turbines or building a hydroelectric station. nuclear reactors have the potential to impact way outside of their borders, and that is why i asked for this caution.
mr president, i voted in favour of this report on social entrepreneurship and social innovation. representing nearly half of all undertakings in the eu and employing about 14 million people, social enterprises make a huge contribution not just to employment but also to social inclusion, to local and to regional development and to environmental protection. however, i believe that social enterprises need greater support. we bailed out the for-profits but we often pay very little attention to the not-for-profits. social economy enterprises should be integrated into our national reform programmes. i am also calling on the member states – as the report did – to implement in full the public procurement and concessions directive, which includes social clauses and criteria to promote social inclusion and social innovation as well as contracts earmarked to foster the employment of the most disadvantaged people in the labour market. member states also need to set up one-stop shops, or contact points, that will empower social enterprises to access eu funding.
in writing. ‒ i abstained on this report, because while it contained many important positive aspects, it also contained certain aspects that i know the social and solidarity economy sector find very problematic. the most significant positive element in the report is that it calls for formal and institutional recognition of the social and solidarity economy sector. however, the report also calls for the opening up of the sse sector to facilitate private investment and private profit. those active in the sector are very wary of moves such as this and have indicated to sinn féin that they oppose such measures. of particular cause of concern were paragraphs 24, 25 and 31, which included a call to bring together potential investors and specialised funds; a call for a european trustmark for ‘social entrepreneurship’ in order to enabling investors to identify funds with an sse portfolio; and for the use of risk capital funds in financing sse.
in writing. ‒ while there were some positive elements to this report specifically the provision which called for a formal and institutional recognition of the social and solidarity economy sector, this was counter-acted by a number of paragraphs which, aimed to open up the sector to private investment and private profit. in light of these concerns, i voted against this report.
in writing. – i abstained on this report, because while it contained many important positive aspects, it also contained certain aspects that i know the social and solidarity economy sector find very problematic. the most significant positive element in the report is that it calls for formal and institutional recognition of the social and solidarity economy sector. however, the report also calls for the opening up of the sse sector to facilitate private investment and private profit. those active in the sector are very wary of moves such as this and have indicated to sinn féin that they oppose such measures. of particular cause of concern were paragraphs 24, 25 and 31, which included a call to bring together potential investors and specialised funds; a call for a european trustmark for 'social entrepreneurship’ in order to enabling investors to identify funds with an sse portfolio; and for the use of risk capital funds in financing sse.
mr president, i was very pleased to support this very constructive and all-encompassing report – indeed, a very wide-ranging report – on matching skills and qualifications with demand and job opportunities. the report contains all the pieces of the jigsaw puzzle that are necessary to match skills and jobs. we need to foster a competitive labour market. we need to anticipate future skills needs. we need to strengthen the connection between education and employment. we need to foster fair mobility, and we need to nurture the entrepreneurial spirit. finally, crucially, we need to support smes and micro-enterprises by enshrining the ‘think small first’ principle in our law making. i was particularly pleased to see that the parliament voted in favour of that today. as a cross-cutting issue, this report also states that we need to support disadvantaged groups, marginalised groups, be these people with disabilities or younger or older workers, to access decent work.
in writing. ‒ the aim of this report was a better matching of skills and qualifications with demand and job opportunities: the measures proposed to reach this aim were mainly labour market reforms to increase flexibility and mobility. thus, while the report mentions the need to improve existing training programmes and vocational training, considering the different experiences of eu countries, as well as anticipating future skills, it also treats unemployment as a frictional matter whose fault lies on the insufficient mobility or motivation of workers – for whom strengthened irresponsibility and entrepreneurial education are prescribed. trade unions are only mentioned as ‘employee’s organisations’ and all the measures are organised around the ‘needs’ of the market. causes of unemployment are individualised and workers faulted, while, in contrast, employers are to be provided with a great variety of incentives. as this was very much a market orientated approach as opposed to a citizen approach, i voted against this report.
in writing. ‒ this report contained a number of very important provisions which specifically spelt out the detrimental effects of austerity on the judicial security of citizens. the aim of the report is primarily to identify the lack of transpositions and the problems arising in the members states notably transport services, environment and health. however, a political angle was added to what is generally a very legalistic text by stating that the drastic cuts in public spending have had the effect of significantly reducing the capacity of member states’ administration and judiciary to assume their responsibility correctly to implement eu law. it also contained a number of other provisions and it was for these reasons that i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ this report contained a number of very important provisions which specifically spelt out the detrimental effects of austerity on the judicial security of citizens. the aim of the report is primarily to identify the lack of transpositions and the problems arising in the members states notably transport services, environment and health. however, a political angle was added to what is generally a very legalistic text by stating that the drastic cuts in public spending have had the effect of significantly reducing the capacity of member states’ administration and judiciary to assume their responsibility correctly to implement eu law. it also contained a number of other progressive provisions and it was for these reasons that i voted in favour of this report.
i was trying to establish that the time for a personal statement or response is at the end of a debate, but you have made your response so i now move on to our next speaker. (interjection from mr papadimoulis)i am sorry, mr papadimoulis. (heated exchange on the floor)colleagues, can i just ask for some order please. we are debating a very sensitive subject. clearly there are huge divisions in this house. you have used an expression in your speech. ms le pen has responded. i would ask you to wait until the end of the debate if there are colleagues who wish to make a personal statement under rule 164. (interjections from the floor)i fully respect your need for… (in response to interjections: colleagues, i am trying to keep order on a very lengthy and important debate) … but will you be repeating what you have just said? then i feel i am giving you extra time. (mr papadimoulis: ‘twenty seconds’) the problem with giving you 20 seconds – and i will refer to the services – is that i then have to give another 20 seconds and then i give you 20 seconds… (interjections)please, i would ask you to respect the chair. if you wish to come in at the end of the debate, then there is a possibility. (applause and further interjections)i thank you for your respect, colleagues, and i ask that you now allow the next speaker to speak for one minute. ms keller, please. (continued interjections, some of them vociferous)… at the end of the debate. (mr papadimoulis: ‘now!)please, colleagues, i have got to ask for order in the house. with respect, this is a very sensitive debate. we are going to have these interruptions. i am being as fair as i possibly can to everybody. i would ask you to allow the speaker to speak. please let the house settle. . (interjection from mr papadimoulis: ‘we have spent more than one minute’) we have spent more than one minute. mr papadimoulis, thank you for this comment. i now ask mrs keller to take the floor for one minute.
i interrupt the speakers’ list to give the floor to minister asselborn, who needs to leave us now. he would like to respond to the debate.
madam president, mr timmermans referred to ‘winter coming’. he could have added a shakespearean observation: ‘a winter of our discontent’, if we do not get to grips with the migration problem. there is an onus on all of us to play our part, because the vast majority of european citizens are generous people who feel very much for the refugees. there is an onus on all member states to play their part as generously as possible. it is then up to the european union to look at the external matters and see how we in the safe countries can help, particularly by providing assistance and dealing with the smugglers. if we all put our resources together we can have a winter that will not so full of discontent for the refugees or for the citizens of europe.
the european parliament, in its report to the committee on energy, research and technology (itre) on cop 21, has set a target of keeping the world's air temperature below 2°c; the world's air temperature would be set at 3°c. more than any other country, there are rich countries that are trying to develop their own laws. but we have to be patient; we have to meet our own targets for 2020, 2030 and 2050 and we can use the new ones in other countries like china, the united states and india to meet those targets. it should be kept in an air-tight container and kept at a temperature below 2°c. i can't let you go.
on behalf of the gue/ngl group.– mr president, this challenging period was also an opportunity. it was an opportunity for you, commissioner, to show farmers across europe that you understood the crisis that many of them are facing. it was an opportunity to show that this commission is capable of proposing measures that would make a real difference to farmers, not just during this period, but measures that would actually tackle the huge price volatility that is fast becoming the hallmark of european agriculture. commissioner, this package represents an opportunity wasted: a one-off aid package that represents, for instance, eur 13.7 million for ireland, most of which, if you remember, will actually come from fines imposed on farmers in the first place; advance payments of monies that farmers were already entitled to; limited state aid measures. none of this represents solidarity or the radical action that was required not just to resolve this crisis, but to provide the certainty that is necessary for farmers to manage their livelihoods into the future. i fear that, because of this wasted opportunity, in the coming years we are going to return to this place. we are going to witness one crisis after another in one sector after another. i also fear, i am sorry to say, that many will be questioning their future in farming unless an urgent rethink is forthcoming from you and the commission. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8)).
blue-card answer.– in terms of the different aid packages and how they are reflected in real euros in each member state, i would say that what we need to ensure is that the network of family farms – that is the hallmark, that is the very basis of european agriculture, it is what makes us different – needs to be protected not just for the farmers themselves, but for the communities from which they come. many of the regions that depend on agriculture depend on it as the only thing, or the nearest thing, they have to an actual industry to keep young people in their communities and to keep thriving domestic economies going. unless we ensure that this network of family farms is maintained, we are not only damaging european agriculture, we are actually damaging many of the regions that we represent.
mr president, the title of this debate sticks out just a little bit. it is called the ‘ongoing crisis in the agriculture sector’. now, given that the commissioner is here to try to help us solve these problems, it is a little bit worrying that only last july – and even after that – we were told by him that there was no crisis. ‘ongoing’ suggests it has been going on for quite a while. i am just wondering, commissioner, how long you think it has been going on, because on the last few occasions you met us you told us there was no crisis? the big problem is not going to be solved by throwing a few quid at farmers. it is like giving roscommon a one point lead in a hurling match against kilkenny – nice thought, but it will not solve the problem. the problem will be solved by making the big smaller so they do not continue to crush the producers. we need to fund producer groups, but i find it very interesting that the commission seems to want to limit their size. i do not see much work on limiting the size of tesco or lidl or aldi. that is the only way we will get it to work, because otherwise they will continue to crush the producer. if you are serious, you will do something about this, commissioner, though i will not hold my breath.
mr president, first of all i want to welcome the eur 30 million that the commission has made available and put aside for the migrant issue because i was disturbed to hear in this parliament that in some migrant and refugee camps people are being given only 800 calories a day and there is no milk for babies. this is really important from a humanitarian point of view. commissioner, i welcome the joined-up thinking between the president of the commission, mr juncker, and yourself on agriculture issues and i welcome your rapid response. i have been here a while and i have seen previous commissioners ignore our call for a response, so i welcome all of those things and, in particular, your focus on the food supply chain. you have our support on that, so keep up the work. let me talk about what is happening globally. in canada, where they have tightly regulated price and market controls, they are dumping milk. they have a problem in their marketplace. in new zealand, where they have a free market with no controls, their farmers are literally going out of business with huge mental health and financial problems being experienced. in the us, with counter-cyclical payments, they have greater volatility than we do. there is no quick fix. we have to put our heads together and find one.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the commission work programme as there were a number of problematic aspects. reading through the aims of the commission, the focus is supposedly to avoid economic boom and bust cycles, and aimed at restoring economic growth to the eu. however there is no tangible focus on equitable growth or poverty reduction. it shows a clear disconnect between european bureaucrats and the reality that is facing millions of struggling working families right across the eu. the commission work programme’s primary aim seems to be just to ensure that member states do not deviate from the economic neo-liberal ideology that it is pushing. it does not leave member states with flexibility to implement alternative policies, which would be pro-investment, pro-growth, pro-jobs. in effect it is working to deny citizens real political choices when electing their governments.
in writing. ‒ while i was largely in support of the commission work programme 2016, there were a number of issues i could not support and consequently voted against. one of these was the introduction of ccctb. i believe the eu should seriously examine ccctb, a common consolidated corporate tax base. ccctb in any case must be voluntary, because member states have a veto on such issues, and the impact of ccctb in a situation where some member states are in and some are out would lead to such uncertainty for companies that investment in eu countries would be seriously affected. one of the problems with ccctb is assessing where the value is created, and furthermore it automatically favours bigger countries because of their large population and consequently large sales. this could negatively affect some member states, particularly ireland, the netherlands etc. and i cannot support such a proposal.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the commission work programme because i believe it outlines parliament’s key priorities for the coming year and reflects some of the important issues that have arisen in recent months. we need to address the current refugee crisis and i am glad that this has featured prominently in the report. additionally, i believe the report keeps focus on many of the other important issues facing the eu at the moment, including environmental, health, social and economic matters.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report. this report contained important provisions on the relocation of 120 000 persons. however, it is predicted that the council will make substantial changes to the proposal. at this point, the european parliament will use its prerogative to ask for reconsultation given the substantial changes. which means that my group, gue-ngl, will be able to work on strengthening the commission proposal through the tabling of number of key amendments.
i declare resumed the session of the european parliament adjourned on thursday, 17 september 2015.
the final draft agenda as drawn up pursuant to rule 149 by the conference of presidents at its meeting of 1 october 2015 has been distributed. the following changes have been proposed: tuesday: the group of the european people’s party (christian democrats) has asked for a statement by the vice-president of the commission/ high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy on the situation in georgia and the use of selective justice, namely the case of gigi ugulava, to be included on the agenda in the afternoon, with a resolution. i give the floor to mr preda to move the request on behalf of the epp group.
it is for the commission to decide who participates in the debate and i dare say that commissioners, when they are here, speak on behalf of the commission. but your point is made. i have had no proposal for a change to our agenda for thursday so the order of business is established. (the order of business was thus established)
i think you will be aware that this issue arose in 2014, and at that point the same amendment was ruled inadmissible on the basis of the president’s legal interpretation, which was delivered to him. nothing has changed since, the president’s ruling and decision is final in this regard, and the amendment is inadmissible. we have noted your comments.
thank you, mr preda. my understanding very clearly is that there was agreement in the conference of presidents on this issue and that there was to be no request to change the agenda, but you have made your point very well and we will pass this on to the president and to the relevant services.
the next item is the report by iskra mihaylova, on behalf of the committee on regional development, on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending regulation (eu) no 1303/2013 of the european parliament and of the council laying down common provisions on the european regional development fund, the european social fund, the cohesion fund, the european agricultural fund for rural development and the european maritime and fisheries fund and laying down general provisions on the european regional development fund, the european social fund, the cohesion fund and the european maritime and fisheries fund as regards specific measures for greece (com(2015)0365 – c8—0192/2015 – 2015/0160(cod)) (a8—0260/2015).
mr epitideios, i am sorry but you should have addressed the question then, so i am not going to allow it.
madam president, i was in a meeting last week where i heard it said that individual meps could ask only one blue-card question during a debate. is mr coburn able to get the floor as often as he wants to ask blue-card questions after every speaker and disrupt the debate?
the president thanked the participants for their willingness to give a few brief remarks on this important subject and for their willingness to give their views on the role played by local authorities, not only in our own countries but especially in developing countries. now it was a great irish-american politician, tip o'neill, who said "all politics is local". certainly that's true, and i suppose local authorities are a prime example of that because they're closest to the people. for that reason it is important that we should work as closely as possible with them. particularly now, in the global sense, we are looking for sustainable development goals. in paris, where i will be representing parliament, we will be hoping to get a global agreement on climate change. that's going to pose a huge challenge worldwide and nowhere more so than in africa where the population is bound to explode over the next number of years. combining those targets with feeding a growing population is going to be a challenge, but, by working with local authorities, we may have a better chance than through governments.
mr president, firstly thanks to marietje schaake and the other colleagues who have done great work in this rather complicated area, and thanks also to the commission for the detailed statement a few moments ago. i suppose hacking is the big enemy of the digital world and technological advancement, and it is very difficult to come to terms with. it reminds me a bit of doping in the sporting world: it is almost impossible for the enforcers to keep ahead of the dopers, and i suppose the same could be said here. nevertheless, we have to try, particularly in relation to the issue raised here tonight: the sale of software equipment to dictators, etcetera. that cannot be tolerated under any circumstances. everything must be done to try and stop it, and particularly to ensure that the rights of journalists and human rights activists, etcetera, are not violated. so i think a few things are needed: the first is strong regulation and the second is stronger penalties.
mr president, i rise tonight to ask the commission to ensure that there is fair competition, particularly for indigenous companies that are trying to expand across europe and avail of the single market. for instance, a company from my own country, supermac’s, was founded by pat mcdonagh a number of years ago and now has 100 outlets in ireland, employing about 3 000 people, but when it tried to expand abroad it came up against the multinational giant mcdonald’s, which is challenging firstly its right to use the name ‘mac’. there are millions of macs around the world, so surely mcdonald’s should not have the sole right to that brand. secondly, the same mcdonald’s is under investigation at european level for tax avoidance – allegedly eur 3.7 billion – and this is being used to keep competition at bay. it is very important that we establish fair competition and a level playing field for all businesses, and that all businesses pay their fair share of tax.
mr president, today the oecd released the 2015 final report on base erosion and profit shifting (beps). i broadly welcome what is in this report, and in this context i am pleased to see that ireland will be one of the first eu countries to introduce new rules on country-by-country reporting. however, i wish to highlight something called the ‘principal purposes test’ which is in action 6 of beps. this test means that if one member state believes that the principal purposes of various transactions of a particular company were to obtain tax treaty benefits, then they could deny those benefits. therefore, you could have a situation between member states – this is in terms of tax treaties – where, for example, germany could have different arrangements with companies in the uk than they might have in ireland. my question is: how does this sit with freedom of establishment, which is one of the basic freedoms in the treaty? has the commission looked at the possibility that these rules could violate the treaties? what we need are common standards against treaty shopping, not arbitrary case-by-case decisions by member states.
mr president, i fully support what the rapporteur has said. i think it is so clear that we could wonder why it did not happen until now. certainly, geographical indications for agricultural products have been very important. i saw in my own constituency in waterford a food product called a ‘blaa’. it is a bread roll made in a unique way. by getting geographical indication it has increased its marketing opportunities and become far more widely known. now everybody who goes to waterford wants, number one, to have a waterford blaa. the same could apply to non-agricultural products. to take waterford again as an example, there is the world-famous waterford crystal. its trophies are used in some of the big sports competitions in the world. it went through hard times recently, but i think that if it got geographical indication that would be a huge boost to it. so this is a tool, as the rapporteur has said, which we should utilise to grow our local industries.
the next item is the vote. (for the results and other details of the vote: see minutes)
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report. it was a single-vote consent report in which parliament gave its consent for member states to ratify the 2014 protocol to the ilo convention against forced labour. the protocol is positive and necessary and outlines strong steps that need to be taken in order to combat human trafficking and forced labour, and it is a response to the fact that while most member states have ratified the convention, forced labour still exists across the eu. the protocol specifically addresses the gaps in cooperation by crime agencies in combating cross-border human trafficking. as some aspects of the protocol fall under eu competence, parliament is required to authorise member states to ratify it and the report urges them to do so by the end of 2016.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report. it was a single-vote consent report in which parliament gave its consent for member states to ratify the 2014 protocol to the ilo convention against forced labour. the protocol is positive and necessary and outlines strong steps that need to be taken in order to combat human trafficking and forced labour, and it is a response to the fact that while most member states have ratified the convention, forced labour still exists across the eu. the protocol specifically addresses the gaps in cooperation by crime agencies in combating cross-border human trafficking. as some aspects of the protocol fall under eu competence, parliament is required to authorise member states to ratify it and the report urges them to do so by the end of 2016.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this recommendation for member states to ratify the 2014 protocol to the ilo forced labour convention. the convention was initially adopted in 1930. however, the international labour organization (ilo) estimates that at least 20.9 million people are victims of forced labour around the world. almost a century on, forced labour has not been eradicated. the protocol of 2014, as an update to the 1930 text, focuses on policies at national level to eradicate forced labour through education and access to information. it also tries to address the root causes of workers’ vulnerability to forced or compulsory labour. it is an important tool for the defence of human rights as it seeks to tackle modern-day issues as well as protecting the victims of forced labour. member states now need to ratify the protocol by the end of next year.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour because the protocol seeks to address gaps in implementation and to make progress on preventing trafficking for labour exploitation as well as protecting and compensating victims of forced labour.
in writing. ‒ i was pleased to support this recommendation concerning ratification by ilo member states as regards articles 1 to 4 of the 2014 protocol to the ilo forced labour convention, which relate to judicial cooperation in criminal matters. despite being adopted in 1930, over 80 years later the ilo estimates that at least 20.9 million people are victims of forced labour globally. the 2014 protocol aims to address gaps in the convention’s implementation and requires member states to develop a national policy and plan of action for the effective and sustained suppression of forced labour. in addition it details concrete measures member states must take to prevent forced labour e.g. educating and informing people and ensuring relevant legislation applies to all workers and all sectors of the economy. particularly positive are the provisions concerning the victims of forced labour who, under the convention, must have access to remedies, such as compensation, and the fact that competent authorities are entitled not to prosecute victims for unlawful activities that they have been compelled to commit.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report as i believe it helps contribute to the effort to put an end to forced labour. more than 80 years after the international labour conference called upon states to end the use of forced labour and criminalise the offence there is still an estimated 20.9 million victims of forced labour globally. this concerns fundamental rights, the victims and the fight against trafficking, a crime that affects not only individuals but also the whole of society and the entire economy. the ratification of this protocol is an important step in the fight against trafficking and of ensuring the rights of victims of crime all over europe. the original forced labour convention entered into force almost a hundred years ago and yet it is regrettable that still millions of people across the world are subject to forced labour. this is simply unacceptable in our modern day.
in writing. ‒ i supported this report as citizens need to be protected from labour exploitation and forced labour.
in writing. – i voted in favour of this report. it was a single-vote consent report in which parliament gave its consent for member states to ratify the 2014 protocol to the ilo convention against forced labour. the protocol is positive and necessary and outlines strong steps that need to be taken in order to combat human trafficking and forced labour, and it is a response to the fact that while most member states have ratified the convention, forced labour still exists across the eu. the protocol specifically addresses the gaps in cooperation by crime agencies in combating cross-border human trafficking. as some aspects of the protocol fall under eu competence, parliament is required to authorise the member states to ratify it and the report urges them to do so by the end of 2016.
in writing. ‒ i supported placing these substances under control measures as considerable research conducted by the emcdda shows clearly that these chemical substances merit control. they have been directly responsible for a number of deaths and intoxications across the european union and are legally marketed as substitutes for either research chemicals or illegal substances. it is essential that they are controlled in an eu context to prevent them gaining a foothold in the market (illicit or legal) and to prevent distributors preying on legislative discrepancies between member states.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which would subject 4-methlamphetamine to control measures. the substance in question is a heavy-duty substance associated with a number of deaths across eu countries. it has been sold on the illicit market as amphetamine and has no established or acknowledged medical value or use.
in writing. ‒ i abstained on this vote because i feel we are continuing down a failed road and that what is proposed is a denial of reality.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of subjecting 4-methylamphetamine to control measures. 4-methylamphetamine belongs to the phenethylamine family and is chemically very close to amphetamine. risk assessment reports to date reveal that there is limited scientific evidence available on the characteristics and risks of 4-methylamphetamine and points out that further studies are required on the overall health and social risks associated with the substance. the evidence available provides sufficient grounds for subjecting 4-methylamphetamine to control measures across the european union.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report in order to ensure the continuity of control measures across member states on the new substances. both the commission and the european council have highlighted the fact that the new substances have provoked a large amount of toxicity and therefore a large number of deaths. i support the stance of the commission and the european council regarding the danger surrounding these new substances and i therefore also believe in the strict necessity of control.
in writing. ‒ i supported placing these substances under control measures as considerable research conducted by the emcdda shows clearly that these chemical substances merit control. they have been directly responsible for a number of deaths and intoxications across the european union and are legally marketed as substitutes for either research chemicals or illegal substances. it is essential that they are controlled in an eu context to prevent them gaining a foothold in the market (illicit or legal) and to prevent distributors preying on legislative discrepancies between member states.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which is aimed at preventing 5-(2-aminopropyl) indole from being sold in the eu as a drug for human consumption. four people died as a result of ingesting this substance in 2012 and many others suffered non-fatal intoxications. new psychoactive substances enter the market all the time and this legislation responds to one such discovered threat.
in writing. ‒ i abstained on this vote because i feel we are continuing down a failed road and that what is proposed is a denial of reality.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of subjecting 5-(2-aminopropyl)indole (5—it) to control measures. four member states have already reported a total of 24 fatalities where 5-it has been detected in post-mortem samples. the substance 5-(2-aminopropyl)indole is a synthetic derivative that contains a positional isomer of alpha-methyltryptamine (amt), which belongs to the tryptamine family, many of which have hallucinogenic and other psychoactive effects in humans. despite the structural similarities of 5-it to amt, 5-apb and phenethylamines such as mda, it is difficult to predict the pharmacological profile of 5-it based on a comparison with these other substances due to potential differences in mechanisms of action. there is to date no data available from scientific studies on its pharmacokinetics.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report to ensure that these new substances continue to be controlled across all member states. the two institutions have recognised the new substances as dangerous, as they have provoked many deaths due to toxicity. i support the rapporteur’s views expressing the dangerousness of these new substances and the need for strict controls to be put in place.
in writing. – i supported placing these substances under control measures as considerable research conducted by the emcdda shows clearly that these chemical substances merit control. they have been directly responsible for a number of deaths and intoxications across the european union and are legally marketed as substitutes for either research chemicals or illegal substances. it is essential that they are controlled in an eu context to prevent them gaining a foothold in the market (illicit or legal) and to prevent distributors preying on legislative discrepancies between member states.
in writing. ‒ i supported placing these substances under control measures as considerable research conducted by the emcdda shows clearly that these chemical substances merit control. they have been directly responsible for a number of deaths and intoxications across the european union and are legally marketed as substitutes for either research chemicals or illegal substances. it is essential that they are controlled in an eu context to prevent them gaining a foothold in the market (illicit or legal) and to prevent distributors preying on legislative discrepancies between member states.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which will subject the aforementioned drugs to control measures there have been over 100 deaths associated with these drugs. currently they are sold on the internet as ‘research chemicals’ and then re-sold as drugs. the lack of medical value or use of these substances, coupled with the dangers they pose to those who ingest them, are reason enough to subject these newly detected substances to control measures.
in writing. ‒ i abstained on this vote because i feel we are continuing down a failed road and that what is proposed is a denial of reality.
in writing. ‒ i voted with the alde group in favour of subjecting 25i-nbome, ah-7921, mdpv and methoxetamine to control measures. a risk assessment carried out by the scientific committee of the lisbon-based european monitoring centre on drugs and drug addiction (emcdda) showed that these four substances do not provide any concrete medical benefits. these new substances are currently being used as alternatives to illicit drugs and have already been linked to numerous fatalities and intoxications across the eu.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report to ensure that these new substances continue to be controlled across all member states. the two institutions have recognised the new substances as dangerous, having provoked a large number of deaths due to toxicity. i support the rapporteur’s views expressing the dangerousness of these new substances and the necessity for strict controls to be put in place.
in writing. ‒ i supported placing these substances under control measures as considerable research conducted by the emcdda shows clearly that these chemical substances merit control. they have been directly responsible for a number of deaths and intoxications across the european union and are legally marketed as substitutes for either research chemicals or illegal substances. it is essential that they are controlled in an eu context to prevent them gaining a foothold in the market (illicit or legal) and to prevent distributors preying on legislative discrepancies between member states.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which will subject 4,4'-dmar and mt-45 to control measures. the high toxicity of these drugs and their link to high numbers of fatal and non-fatal intoxications mean that control measures are necessary to get avoid future tragedies. new psychoactive substances emerge on the market all the time and can be extremely harmful to consumers.
in writing. ‒ i abstained on this vote because i feel we are continuing down a failed road and that what is proposed is a denial of reality.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of subjecting 4,4'-dmar and mt-45 to control measures. since october 2013 mt-45, a synthetic opioid, has been detected in three member states. a total of 28 deaths associated with mt-45 have been reported in one member state, within a period of nine months, as well as 18 non-fatal intoxications. according to the information available from the risk assessment reports, the toxicity of these substances is such that it can cause severe harms to the health of individuals. moreover, the risks are heightened by the fact that these substances are reported, in some cases, to have been consumed unknowingly by certain users together with or instead of other psychoactive substances.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report in order to ensure the continuity of control measures across member states on the new substances. both the commission and the european council have highlighted that the new substances have provoked a large amount of toxicity and therefore a large number of deaths. i support the stance of the commission and the european council regarding the danger surrounding these new substances and i therefore also believe in a strict necessity of control.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution as it calls for increased efforts and funding to assist areas of greece and bulgaria that were adversely impacted by severe climatic conditions in early 2015. due to these situations the governments of these countries applied to the european solidarity fund. eur 16 274 765 will be mobilised within the framework of the european solidarity fund to cover the cost of recovery operations in both countries as both cases match the european solidarity fund's criteria. bulgaria was adversely affected by severe winter weather which included heavy rainfall, snow, floods and landslides. immense damage was done to public infrastructure, communication and transport networks, enterprise and residential areas, not to mention to the agricultural sector and forests. in greece there was a similar situation with major flooding and consequently significant damage to infrastructure, especially water supplies and sewage systems, public buildings, residential areas and businesses. the impact on greek agriculture saw the destruction of farming infrastructure, warehouses and crops. the report garnered the support of 95 % of meps without any amendments or objections being made. the aid will reimburse expenses incurred on recovery and reinforcement works after the natural disasters.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution, and against the amendments. the purpose of this resolution is to make available exceptional measures to enable greece to use already available eu structural funds. tighter financing conditions, as well as economic uncertainties in recent months, have disrupted investment programs and the ability of the greek authorities to fully utilise the available eu funds. the greek economy is in urgent need of a cash injection, as funds for public investment to revive the economy are lacking. this means that greece is less able to co-finance this policy, and many projects may not be completed. also, if greece does not use the funds still available under the 2007 – 2013 period before the end of 2015, these funds will be lost, and greece will miss out on about 2 billion euros. i voted against the amendments as a positive vote, would mean that the resolution may go for a second reading and postpone the decision, which would risk losing part of these important appropriations for greece.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour as i believe it is a good use of eu funds.
in writing. ‒ i supported this report to mobilise the eu solidarity fund in response to disasters in bulgaria and greece which occurred earlier this year. the fund allows the eu to assist when emergency situations and disasters strike member states or their regions and to show solidarity with citizens affected. across bulgaria severe winter weather conditions damaged public infrastructure as well as private homes and businesses at a cost of €243,305 million which qualifies as a 'major natural disaster' and i welcome that the commission paid a 10% advance which was used by the bulgarian authorities for urgent response. two separate severe flooding incidents in the thrace and central and western greece also damaged infrastructure, public buildings, private homes & businesses, impacted farming infrastructure, warehouses and crops and resulted in power failures, the isolation of some mountainous settlements and the destruction of some of greece’s cultural heritage assets. combined the two events had an estimated cost of €395,878 million and qualified for the fund under the regional disaster criteria.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report in order to grant financial assistance to greece and bulgaria following the natural disasters both member states suffered in early 2015. in reference to bulgaria, severe winter conditions such as heavy rainfall, snow and landslides caused an estimated eur 243 305 million in damages according to bulgarian authorities. these events caused considerable damage to public infrastructure, such as dykes, communication networks and roads, as well as businesses, private homes and assets (over 300 buildings in the city of burgas alone were flooded), and harm to the agricultural sector and forests. in respect to greece widespread flooding in eastern macedonia and thrace in early february 2015 caused damage to essential infrastructure, public buildings, private homes, businesses and in greek agriculture, destroying farming infrastructure, warehouses and crops. water supplies and sewage infrastructure were damaged in 17 settlements. in parallel, major parts of central and western greece were hit by another series of floods causing even greater damage, resulting in power failures, the isolation of a number of mountainous settlements and the destruction of some of greece’s cultural heritage assets.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the mobilisation of funds that will help bulgaria and greece react in a flexibly and effectively when faced with unforeseen disasters.
in writing. – i voted in favour of this resolution as it calls for increased efforts and funding to assist areas of greece and bulgaria that were adversely impacted by severe climatic conditions in early 2015. due to these situations the governments of these countries applied to the european solidarity fund. eur 16 274 765 will be mobilised within the framework of the european solidarity fund to cover the cost of recovery operations in both countries as both cases match the european solidarity fund's criteria. bulgaria was adversely affected by severe winter weather which included heavy rainfall, snow, floods and landslides. immense damage was done to public infrastructure, communication and transport networks, enterprise and residential areas, not to mention to the agricultural sector and forests. in greece there was a similar situation with major flooding and consequently significant damage to infrastructure, especially water supplies and sewage systems, public buildings, residential areas and businesses. the impact on greek agriculture saw the destruction of farming infrastructure, warehouses and crops. the report garnered the support of 95% of meps without any amendments or objections being made. the aid will reimburse expenses incurred on recovery and reinforcement works after the natural disasters.
the president voted in favour of this report, and of course i was able to attend a debate there. it was clear that there was a lot of work to be done. chonaiceamar is seo sa vóta: se chéad is a hocht as se chéad nócha ceathair ag vótaíl i bhfabhar. it is the first time in the history of the world that a woman has been elected to the office of president of the republic. gan dabht ar bith, ta se seen gur chabhraigh in the geographical area (gianna) go mór le táirgí talmhaíochta agus cén fáth nach gcabhródh siad le táirgí nach táirgí talmhaíochta iad? (gan dabht ar bith, ta se seen gur chabhraigh in the geographical area (gianna) go mór le táirgí talmhaíochta agus cén fáth nach gcabhródh siad le táirgí nach táirgí talmhaíochta iad?) (gan dabht ar bith, ta se seen gur chabhraigh in the geographical area (gianna) go mór le táirgí talmhaíochta agus cén fáth nach gcabhródh siad le táirgí nach táirgí talmhaíochta iad?) (gan chabhraigh is the name of the product that is used in the food industry) they give you their addresses; they give you their addresses; they give you their addresses; they give you their addresses. so they'll be in a year's time to create a new wealth. as the rapporteur said, it is hoped that the commission will make every effort to bring the laws into force as soon as possible.
in writing. ‒ the purpose of this file is to create a system of geographical indications for non-agricultural products, which are primarily issued from the rural areas. the main idea of the geographical identification is to create an eu wide label that would protect and underline and identify the special know-how and designate the quality, authenticity and characteristics of the product. it is argued that that such a system would foster growth, sme's growth, and maintain a link between the production and the territory it comes from as well as the itinerary of the productions. several fields are identified, such as the relations between the eu and the third countries and it underlines the fact that a geographical identification system could protect the local producers vis a vis the international competition. moreover, it should also be noted that fifteen member states already have this system and that it is judged as primarily positive. it was for these reasons that i voted in favour of this resolution.
in writing. ‒ as we stand today, agricultural products in the eu benefit from geographical indications, namely recognising the distinctive origin of a product where its qualities most likely derive from. this is essentially a means to protect unique regional and local heritage and we should take responsibility to protect these manufacturers from unfair competition. today, the parliament voted in favour of extending this regulation to non-agricultural products as well. the system is currently very fragmented, as only 15 member states have this sort of legislation in place. the commission should immediately engage in the process of coming up with a proposal to create a system for protection of artisanal arts and crafts. it is even more important to get this process underway as we must ensure that quality products and craft skills are not jeopardised in trade talks with third parties, as this would be the case with the transatlantic trade and investment partnership (ttip).
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour because i believe geographical indication works well in the food sector and should be extended to other areas.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because a single system would exploit the positive economic effects of protecting the distinctiveness and quality of such products, providing consumers with reliable information on their place and method of production and helping to combat counterfeiting. furthermore, extending the scope of the geographical indications (gis) protection system to cover non-agricultural products could help make the eu’s position on gis even stronger and more cogent both in bilateral trade negotiations and multilateral forums; the ultimate aim being to provide a high level of protection for all high-quality european products outside the eu. a geographical indication protection system would help european trade and make eu businesses become even more competitive on a global scale.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report as it will allow consumers to make more informed choices about where products come from and the methods of production used.
madam president, i had the honour to speak on behalf of the epp when mr tsipras, the greek prime minister was here, and at that time i was rather critical of him. but i did say that if he went away and put a serious package together, the european union would meet him more than halfway. he has done that and, in fairness, he has been re-elected. having said that, it is going to be very difficult for greece. like yourself, madam president, i come from ireland, and we know how difficult the bail-out programme was. but by sticking with it, we are now coming out the other side and things are improving. i want to see the same happening for greece, but certainly every effort must be made to help them, and if, through the structural investment funds, we can be more lenient with greece, then we have an obligation to do that. we are also conscious of the fact that greece is bearing a lot of the brunt of the migration crisis. that, with their bail-out situation, makes it difficult, so we must help them in every way, and this is a good step.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution, which changes the structural funds regulation and investments to allow advance structural fund payment, and to facilitate pre-financing and co-financing, to greece. this offers a brief and minor relief to greece's economy, allowing it to quickly access these vital funds. tighter financing conditions, as well as economic uncertainties in recent months, have caused liquidity problems, disrupting investment programs and the ability of the greek authorities to fully utilise the available eu funds. the greek economy is in urgent need of a cash injection, as funds for public investment to revive the economy are lacking. this means that greece is less able to co-finance this policy, and many projects may not be completed. the resolution is also urgent because if greece does not use the funds still available under the 2007 – 2013 funding period before the end of 2015, these funds will be lost, and greece will miss out on about 2 billion euros for much-needed projects and job creation.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution, which changes the structural funds regulation and investments to allow advance structural fund payment, and to facilitate pre-financing and co-financing, to greece. this offers a brief and minor relief to greece's economy, allowing it to quickly access these vital funds. tighter financing conditions, as well as economic uncertainties in recent months, have caused liquidity problems, disrupting investment programs and the ability of the greek authorities to fully utilise the available eu funds. the greek economy is in urgent need of a cash injection, as funds for public investment to revive the economy are lacking. this means that greece is less able to co-finance this policy, and many projects may not be completed. the resolution is also urgent because if greece does not use the funds still available under the 2007 – 2013 funding period before the end of 2015, these funds will be lost, and greece will miss out on about 2 billion euros for much-needed projects and job creation.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour because i believe the release of these funds is vital for greece to recover.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of these exceptional but important measures to amend the common rules governing the implementation of the esif, to provide immediate liquidity to greece and help the country make full use of available eu funding, to finance investment and encourage economic growth and job creation. for the 2007 to 2013 programming period there will be an early release of the remaining payments normally held until the closure of the programmes in addition to an increase of the maximum co-financing rates for the period from 95% up to 100%. the commission also propose to increase the rate of pre-financing for certain eu programmes for the 2014-2020 period. it is important to note that the proposal will not have any impact on the overall allocations under the mff to greece or to any other member state. i believe that while these measures are exceptional the situation in greece warrants such a proactive response and will hopefully make a difference to its citizens in the short and long term.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report due to the fact that greece has been affected by the financial crisis in a very unique manner. the country has to face liquidity shortages and a major lack of public funds available for the public investment needed in order to foster a sustainable recovery. it is vital that the lack of liquidity and of public funds in greece does not hinder investment under programmes supported by the european regional development fund, the european social fund (esf) and the cohesion fund and by the european maritime and fisheries fund (emff). it is of the utmost importance that we support our fellow member state in order to ensure it is able to make a sustainable recovery.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution as greece needs further support to assist with economic recovery.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which authorises the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) to benefit laid-off workers in the german car manufacturing company adam-opel. the egf can be mobilised to provide support for workers who lose their jobs as a result of globalisation or the global financial crisis. in germany, 2,881 workers were dismissed in adam opel ag and one supplier as a result of the over-capacity caused by the sharp decline in car sales arising from the global financial crisis. the social partners established a 'transfer company' to formally employ the workers for one year, and this report states that adam-opel will use the maximum 35% of the egf funds allowed to pay the salaries of the workers in the transfer company (as a 'training allowance'). i have concerns with the way in which some german companies have used the egf in this way, as i believe it is the responsibility of the company itself to meet these costs, and the egf should be used to provide additional support. despite this concern i support the dismissed workers receiving the benefits associated with the mobilisation of the egf, so i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which authorises the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) to benefit laid-off workers in the german car manufacturing company adam-opel. the egf can be mobilised to provide support for workers who lose their jobs as a result of globalisation or the global financial crisis. in germany, 2,881 workers were dismissed in adam opel ag and one supplier as a result of the over-capacity caused by the sharp decline in car sales arising from the global financial crisis. the social partners established a 'transfer company' to formally employ the workers for one year, and this report states that adam-opel will use the maximum 35% of the egf funds allowed to pay the salaries of the workers in the transfer company (as a 'training allowance'). i have concerns with the way in which some german companies have used the egf in this way, as i believe it is the responsibility of the company itself to meet these costs, and the egf should be used to provide additional support. despite this concern i support the dismissed workers receiving the benefits associated with the mobilisation of the egf, so i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour because i believe these funds are necessary to help the economy of the area affected.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the mobilisation of €6 958 623 from the egf in the case of 2 692 made redundant at adam opel ag and one supplier. this is one of many applications we have received for workers in the motor industry (to date 21 egf applications) which has been hit particularly hard by both the economic crisis and globalisation. within the industry this is particularly true for manufactures of small and medium-sized vehicles in the medium price band of which adam opel ag is one. this is evidenced by the fact that while the number of newly registered cars in the eu saw a drop of 25% between 2007 and 2013, sales of opel/vauxhall-branded cars in europe fell by 39% for the same period. also the ruhr area has faced large redundancies before and further redundancies in the steel industry are expected towards the end of the year. it is crucial then that the german authorities decided to initiate the implementation of the personalised services to the affected workers on 1 january 2015, well ahead of the decision and even the application on the granting the egf support for the proposed coordinated package and similarly i welcome the speedy evaluation time by the commission and parliament.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this application as workers need support in periods of adjustment.
in writing. – i voted in favour of this report which authorises the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) to benefit laid-off workers in the german car manufacturing company adam-opel. the egf can be mobilised to provide support for workers who lose their jobs as a result of globalisation or the global financial crisis. in germany, 2,881 workers were dismissed in adam opel ag and one supplier as a result of the over-capacity caused by the sharp decline in car sales arising from the global financial crisis. the social partners established a 'transfer company' to formally employ the workers for one year, and this report states that adam-opel will use the maximum 35% of the egf funds allowed to pay the salaries of the workers in the transfer company (as a 'training allowance'). i have concerns with the way in which some german companies have used the egf in this way, as i believe it is the responsibility of the company itself to meet these costs, and the egf should be used to provide additional support. despite this concern i support the dismissed workers receiving the benefits associated with the mobilisation of the egf, so i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which authorises the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) to benefit laid-off workers in the belgian car manufacturing industry. the egf can be mobilised to provide support for workers who lose their jobs as a result of globalisation, including the offshoring of jobs and the shifting in production patterns in europe. it has since been expanded to also apply to workers laid off as a result of the global financial crisis. in this case, 5,111 workers were dismissed at the ford genk car plant and 11 suppliers and downstream producers in belgium in 2014. the dismissals were partly as a result of the loss of market share for the eu automotive industry over the past decade due to the geographical shift in consumption linked to globalisation. i voted in favour of mobilising the fund in order to provide valuable practical assistance to these dismissed workers in job-search and training services.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which authorises the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) to benefit laid-off workers in the belgian car manufacturing industry. the egf can be mobilised to provide support for workers who lose their jobs as a result of globalisation, including the offshoring of jobs and the shifting in production patterns in europe. it has since been expanded to also apply to workers laid off as a result of the global financial crisis. in this case, 5,111 workers were dismissed at the ford genk car plant and 11 suppliers and downstream producers in belgium in 2014. the dismissals were partly as a result of the loss of market share for the eu automotive industry over the past decade due to the geographical shift in consumption linked to globalisation. i voted in favour of mobilising the fund in order to provide valuable practical assistance to these dismissed workers in job-search and training services.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour as i believe the funds are essential to the people of genk.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the application by the belgian authorities for egf funds for workers made redundant in ford genk and its suppliers/downstream producers of which 4 500 are expected to participate with a contribution of eur 6 268 564 from the fund. the manufacture of passenger cars in the eu is an industry heavily affected by globalisation - production of passenger cars decreased by 14.6 % in the eu-27 between 2007 and 2012 while china more than doubled its market share. ford was the largest employer in the province of limburg and the loss of more than 8 000 jobs including indirect job losses has had a huge impact on the region’s economy mostly affecting people between the ages of 30 and 54 in their prime working life. the use of the fund should help to support these workers with a coordinated package of personalised services including job search assistance, training and re-training and allowances and incentives. while it is important to build upon the skills acquired by the affected workers in these services it is also crucial to improve their employability and anticipate current and future labour market demands to provide real added value.
in writing. ‒ i supported this application for funds to help workers who suffer from unforeseen redundancies.
in writing. – i voted in favour of this report which authorises the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) to benefit laid-off workers in the belgian car manufacturing industry. the egf can be mobilised to provide support for workers who lose their jobs as a result of globalisation, including the offshoring of jobs and the shifting in production patterns in europe. it has since been expanded to also apply to workers laid off as a result of the global financial crisis. in this case, 5,111 workers were dismissed at the ford genk car plant and 11 suppliers and downstream producers in belgium in 2014. the dismissals were partly as a result of the loss of market share for the eu automotive industry over the past decade due to the geographical shift in consumption linked to globalisation. i voted in favour of mobilising the fund in order to provide valuable practical assistance to these dismissed workers in job-search and training services.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which authorises the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) to benefit laid-off workers in italian airline alitalia. the egf was established to provide support for workers who lose their jobs as a result of globalisation, including the offshoring of jobs and the shifting in production patterns in europe. it has since been expanded to also apply to workers laid off as a result of the global financial crisis. in general it can be mobilised for use if more than 500 workers in a company or sector are made redundant, and can be used to assist the dismissed workers find new jobs through job-search services and training. in this case, gruppo alitalia has made 1,249 workers redundant in lazio in 2014 as a result of increased global competition in the aviation sector; 184 of these workers have not yet secured new employment. the report authorises the mobilisation of egf funding in order to provide personalised job-search services. i supported the use of the fund as it will provide valuable practical assistance to the unemployed.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which authorises the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) to benefit laid-off workers in italian airline alitalia. the egf was established to provide support for workers who lose their jobs as a result of globalisation, including the offshoring of jobs and the shifting in production patterns in europe. it has since been expanded to also apply to workers laid off as a result of the global financial crisis. in general it can be mobilised for use if more than 500 workers in a company or sector are made redundant, and can be used to assist the dismissed workers find new jobs through job-search services and training. in this case, gruppo alitalia has made 1 249 workers redundant in lazio in 2014 as a result of increased global competition in the aviation sector; 184 of these workers have not yet secured new employment. the report authorises the mobilisation of egf funding in order to provide personalised job-search services. i supported the use of the fund as it will provide valuable practical assistance to the unemployed.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour because i believe the funds are essential to the recovery of the local economy.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the application for egf assistance by the italian authorities for eur 1 414 848 following the redundancy of 1 249 workers from gruppo alitalia. with a decline in the union’s market share and a huge increase in the number of passengers carried by third country international carriers the air transport sector and eu companies such as alitalia have been heavily affected. i welcome the authorities´ proposals for a package of personalised services which will include intake and skill assessment, active job search support, training, reimbursement of mobility costs, and particularly the hiring benefits for over 50s which will provide incentives for this marginalised group. however i note that just 184 (14.7%) of the 1,249 affected workers are to be targeted by the proposed measures which is a very low percentage of eligible redundant employees.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report as to support european workers who face unforeseen adversities.
in writing. – i voted in favour of this report which authorises the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) to benefit laid-off workers in italian airline alitalia. the egf was established to provide support for workers who lose their jobs as a result of globalisation, including the offshoring of jobs and the shifting in production patterns in europe. it has since been expanded to also apply to workers laid off as a result of the global financial crisis. in general it can be mobilised for use if more than 500 workers in a company or sector are made redundant, and can be used to assist the dismissed workers find new jobs through job-search services and training. in this case, gruppo alitalia has made 1,249 workers redundant in lazio in 2014 as a result of increased global competition in the aviation sector; 184 of these workers have not yet secured new employment. the report authorises the mobilisation of egf funding in order to provide personalised job-search services. i supported the use of the fund as it will provide valuable practical assistance to the unemployed.
the president, who voted against the report, was also well aware that there was no difficulty in complying with the law, but that was a part of what he did; he was not able to vote. is maith sin, mar is ag an lokal nivel a doing an chuid is mó den obair. the more local authorities do the better they are; the more they know what they are doing, and the more likely they are to live better lives. people get to know each other at that level. most of the time in the rial, sometimes dictators would just go without, and they would say, "this is money we're not going to use". the report therefore seeks to strengthen laws in developing countries to use money in the way it is needed.
in writing. ‒ this report contains some positive provisions. it supports internal devolution and decentralisation to strengthen local authorities and acknowledges the role of local authorities in representing minorities and protecting their interests. however, the emphasis placed on the private sector as a ‘key enabler’ of development and its encouragement of public-private initiatives meant that i had to abstain on this vote.
in writing. ‒ i abstained on this vote because of the support for public-private policies which has done nothing but bleed public funding dry.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report due to the fact that i am a firm believer that efficient governance at a local level is vital in order to achieve sustainable development and positive results. good governance at a local level helps to manufacture conditions for inclusive and effective development processes. the quality of local governance is also related to the way local authorities manage and implement public policies and services on the basis of local policymaking processes and interactions with other public institutions, citizens and private sectors. challenges which local communities face are more urgently and effectively solved when there is good governance at a local level, such as migration, rapid urbanisation, depletion of resources, public safety and violence, climate adaptation and mitigation and so forth.
in writing. ‒ i supported this resolution as i consider good governance at a local level to be pivotal in achieving sustainable development.
in writing. ‒ there are aspects of this report which are good. i recognise the need for and benefit of internal devolution and decentralisation to strengthen local authorities and address regional development discrepancies. i acknowledged the role of local authorities in representing minorities and protecting their interests. however, the emphasis placed on the private sector as a ‘key enabler’ of development and its encouragement of public-private initiatives means that i am unable to support the report and have abstained accordingly.
that concludes the explanations of vote.
mr president, i welcome the discussion on the death penalty as it is an opportunity for us to recognise european countries’ longstanding opposition to capital punishment. but i am here tonight to ask you to spare a thought for ibrahim halawa, an irish teenager and the only eu citizen who has been held in an egyptian prison since august 2013, who currently faces the death penalty. his crime was to exercise his freedom of expression by attending a protest. amnesty has deemed him a prisoner of conscience and his imprisonment is, in fact, in contravention of article 2 of the euro-mediterranean agreement. so, while i welcome the comment from mr schmit tonight that the european council is vocal on the death sentence, i would like to say that actions speak louder than words. egypt is ranked seventh for executions, and only last week opposed a un motion to prohibit the death penalty. it is now time for the european union and the irish government to act on egypt and to put an end to cases like that of ibrahim halawa, languishing in jail awaiting a death sentence.
madam president, although i disagree with a number of exemptions in this report, i do welcome this piece of legislation, which will see emission limits for medium combustion plants covered by law for the first time. it is right that the regulatory gap between small and large combustion plants is finally filled. air pollution is a major, yet preventable, killer in europe, and in my home country, ireland, 1 300 premature deaths are attributed to bad air quality. it is estimated that the cost to the health service amounts to a staggering eur 3 billion every year. these immense costs to citizens’ health, national budgets and, of course, to the environment should be taken very seriously indeed, and we cannot continue to kick the can down the road on air quality. added to ireland’s continual breach of nitrogen oxide limits, it shows that much more must be done if we are serious about tackling air pollution.
in writing. ‒ i abstained on this report, which was a consent vote on a council decision on a protocol to the euro-med agreement to allow tunisia to access eu programmes through a framework agreement. the tunisian government that was elected last year is in favour of pluralist democracy and the new constitution is generally liberal, inclusive, pro-gender equality and pluralist, and includes protections for all religions and minorities. the agreement will not be with a particular government but with the republic of tunisia i did not vote against giving consent as i did not wish to block the tunisian government from accessing eu civilian programmes that it could find very useful in transitioning to democracy after decades of dictatorship. programmes named in the justification include cooperation in education, universities, research and erasmus. however, one of the programmes tunisia would be authorised to join is the eu’s common security and defence policy. eu and us military policy in the middle east and north africa has resulted in disastrous consequences and the further expansion of this policy is something i oppose, which is why i did not vote in favour of the report..
in writing. ‒ i abstained on this report, which was a consent vote on a council decision on a protocol to the euro-med agreement to allow tunisia to access eu programmes through a framework agreement. the tunisian government that was elected last year is in favour of pluralist democracy and the new constitution is generally liberal, inclusive, pro-gender equality and pluralist, and includes protections for all religions and minorities. the agreement will not be with a particular government but with the republic of tunisia i did not vote against giving consent as i did not wish to block the tunisian government from accessing eu civilian programmes that it could find very useful in transitioning to democracy after decades of dictatorship. programmes named in the justification include cooperation in education, universities, research and erasmus. however, one of the programmes tunisia would be authorised to join is the eu’s common security and defence policy. eu and us military policy in the middle east and north africa has resulted in disastrous consequences and the further expansion of this policy is something i oppose, which is why i did not vote in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ i broadly agree with the conclusion of the proposal, albeit with concerns over increased private influence over public institutions. on balance, i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report as the gradual opening up of certain eu programmes and agencies to enp partner countries helps to promote reform, modernisation and transition in the neighbouring eu area. tunisia has a significant potential for long-term economic growth. making concrete economic and investment commitments aimed at supporting the country’s fragile transition to democracy while at the same time being mindful of the success of the tunisian experiment is in the interests of the entire region and the eu.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this draft legislative resolution to have a coherent framework between the republic of tunisia and the european communities.
in writing. – i abstained on this report, which was a consent vote on a council decision on a protocol to the euro-med agreement to allow tunisia to access eu programmes through a framework agreement. the tunisian government that was elected last year is in favour of pluralist democracy and the new constitution is generally liberal, inclusive, pro-gender equality and pluralist, and includes protections for all religions and minorities. the agreement will not be with a particular government but with the republic of tunisia i did not vote against giving consent as i did not wish to block the tunisian government from accessing eu civilian programmes that it could find very useful in transitioning to democracy after decades of dictatorship. programmes named in the justification include cooperation in education, universities, research and erasmus. however, one of the programmes tunisia would be authorised to join is the eu’s common security and defence policy. eu and us military policy in the middle east and north africa has resulted in disastrous consequences and the further expansion of this policy is something i oppose, which is why i did not vote in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which was concerned with raising the thresholds for the value of a claim. previously, the threshold was set at eur 2 000. the report provides that this limit would be raised to eur 5 000 if pursued against a natural person i.e. an individual and eur 10 000 if pursued against a legal person i.e. a company. by way of background, the european small claims procedure applies to all claims with a cross-border element. this includes cases where the parties are both domiciled in the same member state and only the place of performance of the contract, the place where the harmful event takes place or the place of enforcement of the judgment is situated in another member state. this provides an important remedy for cross-border disputes which in many member states is woefully lacking at present. one final positive point is that legal assistance can also be provided to parties free of charge, which did not previously exist.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which was concerned with raising the thresholds for the value of a claim. previously, the threshold was set at eur 2 000. the report provides that this limit would be raised to eur 5 000 if pursued against a natural person i.e. an individual and eur 10 000 if pursued against a legal person i.e. a company. by way of background, the european small claims procedure applies to all claims with a cross-border element. this includes cases where the parties are both domiciled in the same member state and only the place of performance of the contract, the place where the harmful event takes place or the place of enforcement of the judgment is situated in another member state. this provides an important remedy for cross-border disputes which in many member states is woefully lacking at present. one final positive point is that legal assistance can also be provided to parties free of charge, which did not previously exist.
in writing. ‒ integration among member states involves every aspect of an eu citizen’s life. as freedom of movement and labour becomes more accessible, giving citizens greater possibilities, we are also faced with cross-border challenges. these challenges can nevertheless be overcome through transparent cooperation between the institutions. for example, if a citizen needs to claim money back from a faulty product bought online, coming from a different eu member state, it is our duty to facilitate ways to resolve these issues. this has been the case since 2007. however, today we voted on making sure that these small-claim procedures are more accessible to people as well as increasing the threshold of the claim to eur 5 000.
in writing. ‒ the european parliament’s vote benefits eu citizens by providing simplified procedures for cross-border dispute resolution. national barriers will no longer be an insurmountable obstacle in judicial matters for individuals, nor, in particular, for smes. electronic communication tools will facilitate the process for those involved. good faith in the execution of civil and commercial contracts will be more vigorously protected and legal security will be guaranteed for the commercial circuit
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the legislative resolution as it provides better protection to the consumer.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report as overall it would further improve the functioning of the small claims procedure. the european small claims procedure can be successful but only if consumers and businesses, courts, and associations providing the advice are aware of it. consumers and businesses need very concrete information on how to use the procedure in practice and what it would cost. it therefore makes sense for the member states to provide more in-depth information on court fees and methods of payment for the european small claims procedure.
in writing. ‒ i voted to support this report as it helps to make litigation costs proportionate to the size of the claims. this ensures fairness and better access to justice for eu citizens.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which was concerned with raising the thresholds for the value of a claim. previously, the threshold was set at eur 2 000. the report provides that this limit would be raised to eur 5 000 if pursued against a natural person i.e. an individual and eur 10 000 if pursued against a legal person i.e. a company. by way of background, the european small claims procedure applies to all claims with a cross-border element. this includes cases where the parties are both domiciled in the same member state and only the place of performance of the contract, the place where the harmful event takes place or the place of enforcement of the judgment is situated in another member state. this provides an important remedy for cross-border disputes which in many member states is woefully lacking at present. one final positive point is that legal assistance can also be provided to parties free of charge, which did not previously exist.
in writing. ‒ the aim of this legislation is to fill the regulatory gap which exists between small combustion plants (covered by the ecodesign directive) and large combustion plants (covered by the large combustion plant directive). therefore, the aim is to cover the emissions of air pollutants from medium combustion plants that are not regulated at eu level, while small combustion plants can be covered by ecodesign directive, and large combustion plants by the industrial emissions directive (ied). it was for these reasons that i voted in favour of this proposed directive.
in writing. ‒ i am pleased that my colleagues joined me in voting in favour of imposing emission limits of sulphur dioxide (so2) and nitrogen oxide (nox) from medium-sized combustion plants. this vote will bring the closing of a legal gap by setting standards for medium-sized combustion plants operating with a thermal input between 1 and 50 mw. once officially approved by the eu council of member state ministers, the limits will be effective within three years for new plants, with gradual adaptation deadlines for existing ones. this is a very important step to improve air quality for the sake of human health and the environment. although many of us would like to see stronger provisions in place, the directive allows member states to enforce stricter emissions values, which countries will have to consider for areas where eu air quality standards are not met. the review clause contained in the directive should lead to increased reductions in emissions in the near future. nitrogen oxide emissions, which are at the heart of the current volkswagen emissions scandal, cause serious respiratory complications and are responsible for premature death. innovation and sustainability go hand-in-hand with proper regulation. energy efficiency stands to win from this move.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour because i believe it has the potential to improve the health of the population.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report. while emissions of air pollutants from small and large combustion plants are regulated at eu level, there is no specific regulation for medium-sized combustion plants. air pollution is estimated to lead to more than 400 000 premature deaths per year and causing health costs of up to eur 940 billion. reducing emissions from medium combustion plants can help contribute to achieving eu climate and energy targets through reducing greenhouse gases and improving energy efficiency. this instrument is very important in order to improve air quality in the eu without imposing unjustified burdens on society and the economy.
in writing. ‒ i supported this report. the report seeks to avoid excessive administrative burden while incorporating medium combustion plants under eu emission legislation.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report. it is a simple alignment procedure to the lisbon treaty on edible milk proteins. the european parliament managed to limit an indefinite period of delegated acts for the commission to five years with a review procedure but apart from that it mainly concerned technical issues.
in writing. ‒ i voted favour as i believe the proposal provides for more transparency.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report as its overall aim is to grant the free movement of safe and wholesome food, thereby significantly contributing to the health and well-being of our citizens. although the products covered by the proposal are not meant to be sold to the final consumer, but only from business to business for the preparation of food products, it is important for food business operators to have at their disposal the information they need for the labelling of the final products, especially when it comes to allergens.
in writing. ‒ i voted for this report as it improves the standards of edible casein and caseinates, bringing them in line with international norms.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report as this report aimed to make access to eu funds simpler, more accountable and efficient whilst also addressing misappropriation and white-collar crime through the introduction of exclusion criteria and a panel to investigate claims. it also aligns the financial regulation with the new directives on public procurement and on the awarding of concession contracts by the eu institutions. contracting authorities shall be required to take steps to ensure that, when executing contracts, operators comply with the environmental, social and labour law obligations established by the eu or national legislation, collective agreements or the international environmental, social and labour conventions. regarding exclusion criteria, these were added to counter tax fraud, tax evasion – including tax evasion via untaxed offshore structures – the misuse of corporate assets and the embezzlement of public funds to exclude from participation in the procurement procedures of eu institutions.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report as this report aimed to make access to eu funds simpler, more accountable and efficient whilst also addressing misappropriation and white-collar crime through the introduction of exclusion criteria and a panel to investigate claims. it also aligns the financial regulation with the new directives on public procurement and on the awarding of concession contracts by the eu institutions. contracting authorities shall be required to take steps to ensure that, when executing contracts, operators comply with the environmental, social and labour law obligations established by the eu or national legislation, collective agreements or the international environmental, social and labour conventions. regarding exclusion criteria, these were added to counter tax fraud, tax evasion – including tax evasion via untaxed offshore structures – the misuse of corporate assets and the embezzlement of public funds to exclude from participation in the procurement procedures of eu institutions.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour as i believe the proposal provides for more transparency on how funds are spent.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report as it helps align the financial regulation with the provisions of the new directives on public procurement and the award of concession contracts. rules such as the ones outlined in this report would ensure adequate protection of the union’s financial interests in the context of the pursuit of the eu’s key security objectives, responding better to the imperative of sound, effective and efficient financial management as a result.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report as it respects the application of environmental and labour rules are upheld as well as respecting sustainability criteria.
in writing. – i voted in favour of this report as this report aimed to make access to eu funds simpler, more accountable and efficient whilst also addressing misappropriation and white-collar crime through the introduction of exclusion criteria and a panel to investigate claims. it also aligns the financial regulation with the new directives on public procurement and on the awarding of concession contracts by the eu institutions. contracting authorities shall be required to take steps to ensure that, when executing contracts, operators comply with the environmental, social and labour law obligations established by the eu or national legislation, collective agreements or the international environmental, social and labour conventions. regarding exclusion criteria, these were added to counter tax fraud, tax evasion – including tax evasion via untaxed offshore structures – the misuse of corporate assets and the embezzlement of public funds to exclude from participation in the procurement procedures of eu institutions.
in writing.– it was with great disappointment that i listened to the speech of angela merkel and francois hollande. it was a missed opportunity to address the current european crisis in any real substantial fashion. while a number of important issues were raised, the speeches lacked any prospect for real democracy or an emphasis on solidarity across the european union. we must rethink our refugee policy and it cannot only be about militarising our outer borders. there must be a real emphasis put on solidarity and not just mere platitudes.
mr president, i very much welcome the position that has been outlined by the commission and i welcome commissioner katainen to the house this evening. i also welcome the roadmap that has been established. there are clear timelines in the roadmap for the commission and for parliament, and we need to stick to those timelines, because i think the capital markets union (cmu) is a crucial project in terms of the mandate of this parliament and indeed of this commission. of course europe will still depend on its banks for funding to businesses big and small, but over a period of time we need to provoke more non-bank lending, and the way you do that is to have a harmonised approach across the european union in order to encourage more funds to invest, especially in the equity markets. since the crisis, we face a huge investment gap. in my own country, private investment is down 20%. that is not going to be filled by the banks. it certainly is not going to be filled by governments, who are already stretched for cash. so we need to find new ways to make sure that that funding gap is bridged. half of all disposable assets in europe are held in cash. if we can make sure that some of that saving can be used for productive purposes, people will go back to work and we can ensure that the economic cycle is put in place and is helped. we already have an awful lot of expertise within the european union, as gunnar hökmark said. in my own country, in dublin, we have a very significant securitisation market and the potential of that is crucially important in terms of encouraging a much wider capital markets union. this is not just about smes. of course smes are crucial, but it is also about establishing a financial escalator whereby businesses can grow quickly in europe. we are losing out to the united states of america, especially when it comes to venture capital. too many of our businesses are being lost as a consequence of failure to get necessary funding, in terms of making sure that investment pays off. there is great opportunity in this proposal. we need to work on it and we need to keep the timelines clear.
madam president, i am actually very pleased with this development and i think there is great credit due to commission vice-president katainen who has worked very hard since he took over his brief, and no doubt european businesses will experience the positive effect of that in due course. my colleague brian hayes spoke about this very clearly a few moments ago and i think it must be seen in the context of what has been done over the last four or five years in parliament here with the previous commissioner barnier. this is in some respects, if not the final part of the jigsaw, certainly one of the final parts, and it will benefit particularly smes and start-ups, which often find it difficult to get finance. we have been dependent on banks for too long, and obviously there is far more venture capital in the usa than here: that is something we need to address. all those points are mentioned in this proposal and i think it is going to be well received and will have great benefits for our economy and help us, into the future, to grow jobs and have a better quality of life. so thanks to commissioner and thanks to everybody.
on behalf of the gue/ngl group.– madam president, just to record my thanks also to the rapporteur and his team for what was a very tedious and sometimes very technical set of trilogue meetings. this payment services directive creates, in my view, some positive prospects, particularly for small and medium and budding start-up enterprises, by opening up the bank industry to third-party providers. not only does this opening create possibly more employment and business opportunities but, very importantly, it allows for more consumer choice. unsurprisingly, the european banking federation has vigorously opposed this directive, and their concerns have been couched under data protection or security fears. but in fact, to me, these issues are for the most part not only unfounded but are actually a ruse to deflect attention from the fact that vested financial interests do not wish to see their current dominant position put in jeopardy. the impact of the payment services directive (psd 2) when it becomes law will inevitably lead to increased competition for existing banks: the chance of collaboration for third-party providers on the creation of app stores, for example, leading to increased loyalty between collaborators and consumers and also, in some cases, to banks being cut out of the payment loop. crucially, the regulation seeks to strengthen consumer protection and regulate operators who previously functioned with no regulatory or supervisory framework at all, so to speak. all players will now be forced to comply with financial regulation, which is crucial for any economic activity. i will be supporting this directive tomorrow.
madam president, i welcome this report by my friend and colleague antonio tajani and i thank him for his good work, in particular in agreeing a text which, judging by comments and speeches from all sides of the house, will be met with approval tomorrow and voted on accordingly. it is important that the single market for payment services is modernised and strengthened, and this will bring significant added benefits in encouraging innovation, increasing competition and improving security. by improving cross-border payments in terms of harmonising a fragmented market for card, online and mobile payments, we can significantly increase the opportunities for smes and new entrepreneurial start-up companies to succeed and compete in the single market. this is vital. the proposal will widen consumer choice by ensuring that a payer using an online account has the right to use payment software devices provided by an authorised third party and have transactions executed on their behalf by the provider. it will also remove barriers to entry by reducing costs and moving us closer to a truly single market which we all hope for, and i think this will be a welcome step. i also think it will be wonderful for smes who are the drivers of the economy, and i have spoken already this week on the importance of giving indigenous smes the best possible chance to reap the benefits of the european market. as has been mentioned already, it will help us on the economic recovery front and particularly in stimulating competition. where europe is concerned, we need to emphasise competitiveness so that businesses will want to locate here. finally, as rapporteur for the data protection regulation for the committee on industry, research and energy, i welcome in particular some key points in this report recognising that the user’s personal data is transmitted through safe channels and that it is shared only with the user’s consent and to the minimum possible extent. this will help to allay the fears of many and will help the whole business to grow. so i think this is a wonderful development. well done mr tajani and everybody involved.
the european parliament is the epp group's head. uachtaráin, is ábhar an-tábhactach is seo agus is dóigh liom gur gur cheart dúinn féachaint air i gcomhthéacs in gcainteanna a bhí ar siúl sa phairlimint seo i rith na seachtaine. the president, is ábhar an-tábhactach is seo agus is dóigh liom gur gur cheart dúinn féachaint air i gcomhthéacs in gcainteanna a bhí ar siúl sa phairlimint seo i rith na seachtaine. the chancellor angela merkel and the president of france, francois hollande, said that we should focus more on africa, help more people with climate-related issues, and create a better economy and a better life for the people of africa. when we look at what's happening in nigeria, it's very difficult to deal with groups like boko haram and the terrorism that's going on, especially with young people and young boys and young girls and even children in schools. so it's clear that we're going to cooperate with the united nations and with every other country that wants a better life and that wants to help troops against boko haram. (aontaíonn an cainteoir freagra a thabhairt ar cheist to the "charta gorm" (riail 162(8) of the na rialacha nós imeachta).) the following is the text of the decision:
blue-card answer.– my colleague, mr rübig, is absolutely correct. it is one thing to fight against boko haram, it is another thing to establish the culture that is necessary for the recognition of human rights and respect for individuals. it is only through a proper educational system that that can happen. there is a big difference between having a proper educational system and actually destroying schools – which is what is happening right now in nigeria. so, yes, that is the fundamental way of approaching the problem and, unless it happens, we will never really have progress.
the president, i voted in favour of this report and i think it is important that we do something to help other people. it will be an important step in the european union's development. as stated, there is more and more work to be done now beyond the borders and on the internet and without, therefore it is important to have clear rules in place regarding laws, especially those relating to gambling. i say to myself, this is a big market and it's not being built right now, it hasn't been in the last few years, and many of them, they'll be exporting goods from here to the internet and beyond. therefore, as long as it is possible for us to do so, we will continue to work on the internal market and to create a european market, which will be more stable in the future.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this proposed directive. the payment services directive is an important piece of legislation which creates new prospects for smes and budding start-ups by opening up the banking industry to what are known as third-party providers (tpps). not only does this create more employment and business opportunities but it also allows for more consumer choice. colleagues of mine have worked on this proposal on behalf of the gue/ngl group for a number of months and have been proactively involved in the negotiations leading up to this vote. our focus was to engage in trilogues to ensure that sustainable economic growth and growth-friendly fiscal measures were the core aims. during discussions in preparatory meetings of the committee on economic and monetary affairs, the need to break the dominance of the big banks, which currently control the payments market to the detriment of small businesses and budding entrepreneurs, was highlighted. moreover, we sought to ensure that the legislation would strengthen consumer protection and regulate operators who previously functioned with no regulatory or supervisory framework. all competitors will now be forced to comply with the financial rules, which is crucial for any economy. it was for these reasons i voted in favour of this legislation.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this proposed directive, on which i was a shadow rapporteur. the payment services directive is an important piece of legislation which creates new prospects for smes and budding start-ups by opening up the banking industry to what are known as third-party providers (tpps). not only does this create more employment and business opportunities but it also allows for more consumer choice. as a member of the committee on economic and monetary affairs, i worked on this proposal on behalf of the gue/ngl group for a number of months. my role was to engage in trilogues to ensure that sustainable economic growth and growth-friendly fiscal measures were the core aims. during discussions in preparatory meetings of the committee on economic and monetary affairs, i highlighted the need to break the dominance of the big banks which currently control the payments market to the detriment of small businesses and budding entrepreneurs. moreover, i sought to ensure that the legislation would strengthen consumer protection and regulate operators who previously functioned with no regulatory or supervisory framework. all competitors will now be forced to comply with the financial rules, which is crucial for any economy. it was for these reasons i voted in favour of this legislation.
in writing. ‒ the final compromise on electronic payments approved today by a large majority of the european parliament represents a significant step forward in favour of european citizens and businesses. the new rules will impact positively on their daily lives, reduce costs and increase security for both consumers and businesses. the european payment services market is still too fragmented and expensive, with costs of approximately eur 130 billion a year. the new directive will reduce these costs while opening up the market to new operators, which will be subject to the same regulatory and supervisory framework as other credit or payment institutions. the new rules will further improve consumer protection in cases of alleged fraud.
in writing. – i voted in favour because changes constitute a positive development for both consumers and smes across all member states.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, as i am in favour of setting a basis for a harmonised legal framework for the creation of an integrated payments market, which also aims to update and complement the current framework on payment services. ensuring a competitive level playing field for all categories of payment service providers and ensuring the adequate and consistent protection of consumer interests in the context of payment transactions, including extending regulatory protection to new payment services, are proposals well aligned with the principles of the eu.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this proposed directive, on which my colleague matt carthy was a shadow rapporteur. the payment services directive is an important piece of legislation which creates new prospects for smes and budding start-ups by opening up the banking industry to what are known as third-party providers (tpps). not only does this create more employment and business opportunities but it also allows for more consumer choice. during discussions in preparatory meetings of the committee on economic and monetary affairs, matt carthy highlighted the need to break the dominance of the big banks, which currently control the payments market to the detriment of small businesses and budding entrepreneurs. moreover, he sought to ensure that the legislation would strengthen consumer protection and regulate operators who previously functioned with no regulatory or supervisory framework. all competitors will now be forced to comply with financial regulation, which is crucial for any economy. it was for these reasons i voted in favour of this legislation.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution, which was concerned with the mass evictions currently taking place across spain and the risky financial instruments which are one of the causes of these evictions. at present, 95 families lose their home every day. this is due to the economic, social and financial crisis. however a majority of the evictions are cause by a combination of abusive practices on the part of financial institutions, a lack of accurate essential information on financial instruments for consumers and insufficient legal protection of mortgage debtors. regarding the abusive practices, 700 000 citizens are estimated to have been sold risky financial instruments by their spanish banks in bad faith. in ireland, where we are also currently experiencing an unprecedented homelessness crisis, we now have 130 000 families in need of housing, and many families forced into bankruptcy. in may of this year, my colleague pearse doherty brought legislation to the dáil which would have allowed the regulator to set a cap on the rates being charged by banks but the irish government voted against it. this is a matter on which my party will continue to fight, both on the european front and at domestic level.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution, which was concerned with the mass evictions currently taking place across spain and the risky financial instruments which are one of the causes of these evictions. at present, 95 families lose their home every day. this is due to the economic, social and financial crisis. however a majority of the evictions are cause by a combination of abusive practices on the part of financial institutions, a lack of accurate essential information on financial instruments for consumers and insufficient legal protection of mortgage debtors. regarding the abusive practices, 700 000 citizens are estimated to have been sold risky financial instruments by their spanish banks in bad faith. in ireland, where we are also currently experiencing an unprecedented homelessness crisis, we now have 130 000 families in need of housing, and many families forced into bankruptcy. in may of this year, my colleague pearse doherty brought legislation to the dáil which would have allowed the regulator to set a cap on the rates being charged by banks but the irish government voted against it. this is a matter on which my party will continue to fight, both on the european front and at domestic level.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution as sign of solidarity to podemos.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution, which was concerned with the mass evictions currently taking place across spain and the risky financial instruments which are one of the causes of these evictions. at present, 95 families lose their home every day. this is due to the economic, social and financial crisis. however a majority of the evictions are cause by a combination of abusive practices on the part of financial institutions, a lack of accurate essential information on financial instruments for consumers and insufficient legal protection of mortgage debtors. regarding the abusive practices, 700 000 citizens are estimated to have been sold risky financial instruments by their spanish banks in bad faith. in ireland, where we are also currently experiencing an unprecedented homelessness crisis, we now have 130 000 families in need of housing, and many families forced into bankruptcy. in may of this year, my colleague pearse doherty brought legislation to the dáil which would have allowed the regulator to set a cap on the rates being charged by banks but the irish government voted against it. this is a matter on which my party will continue to fight, both on the european front and at domestic level.
the president also voted in favour of the report and therefore it is important that more and more countries should be involved in the process. especially from within the union, we should not talk about the fact that we are fighting for peace in any country. i know that terrible things happen to people and that people are afraid of them, but maybe people don't care about them; but it's more civil to let people know that they're afraid of them. but of course, as i said, it's often the case that people who are afraid of falling in love with a fairy tale don't want to be killed by a fairy tale. therefore, it is right to adopt laws that protect human rights in the world, but we should not allow people to abuse them, and we should stop abusing them.
in writing. ‒ ‒ i supported this joint resolution as it highlighted aptly concerns i share about the use of the death penalty internationally, and reaffirmed europe’s commitment to opposing, and encouraging others to oppose, the use of the death penalty.
in writing. ‒ fifty-eight countries across the globe still retain the death penalty. although much is being done to eradicate it in certain countries, the number of executions has been on the rise in recent years. today, we reaffirm our commitment to abolish this barbaric practice worldwide. one of our fellow irishmen, ibrahim halawa, is currently facing a death sentence in egypt, where he was arrested, at the age of 17, in august 2013. there is no evidence that links him to any of the crimes he has allegedly committed, and yet, in august, he was tried, alongside 493 others, in an extremely unfair mass-trial. there is no other way for ibahim to seek justice unless the irish government and the eu intervene in this very clear violation of human rights. my thoughts are with ibrahim.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution as i oppose the death penalty.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this motion, as the abolition of the death penalty worldwide is one of the main objectives of the eu’s human rights policy. the latest figures record that 2 466 people in 55 countries are known to have been sentenced to death in 2014 – almost a 23% increase on 2013. we must continue to campaign until this inhumane practice is abolished globally.
in writing. ‒ ‒ i supported this joint resolution as it highlighted aptly concerns i share about the use of the death penalty internationally, and reaffirmed europe’s commitment to opposing, and encouraging others to oppose, the use of the death penalty.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution as it calls for positive developments for environmental practices.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this motion, as there is a grave concern that almost no lessons seem to have been learned in the past five years, as poor implementation of the relevant eu laws and international conventions, as well as inspection deficiencies, continue and almost none of the gaps in the relevant eu legislation have since been closed. in order to prevent the recurrence of disasters, in which valuable lives are lost, we must address these matters abruptly and firmly.
a uachtaráin, bio bhí áthas orm go raibh mé in ann voted le mo ghrúpa sna vótaí seo go léir, agus glacadh leis an tuarascáil le móramh mór: 524 fheisire i bhfabhar. the president, who is the head of the government, is the only person who can be elected by the people. they're looking for a way to help them create a balance. i was taking them to leasú 7 and leasú 19, but they were talking about gilding and making it available for free in developing countries. i don't know him, i don't know my team anymore, i'm not sure. i voted against giving you a chance to read without having to ask you to read it. the commission therefore decided to bring the laws into line with the report. mar da mba rud is go nglacfaí le ginmhilleadh to be ar fáil go forleathan, gan dabht ar bith, bhainfí mis-use the ina lan causes.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution, which calls for increased efforts to tackle gender inequality through the renewal of the eu’s gender action plan (gap i). the resolution specifically calls for further action on two millennium development goals (mdg) – increasing gender equality and women’s empowerment, and reducing maternal mortality rates. the resolution welcomes the commission’s intention to initiate a transformative shift with gap ii and calls for it to take the form of a commission communication. i voted in favour of amendment 1, which calls for access to safe abortion for women and girls who are victims of rape in armed conflicts. i also voted in favour of amendment 2, which calls for further efforts globally to ensure access to safe abortion services, in the context of addressing the mdg on maternal health by reducing the incidence of high-risk births. sinn féin believes that the option of a termination should be available where there is a real and substantial risk to the life of a pregnant woman – including where she is suicidal – that would be averted only by an abortion; in the case of rape or incest; and in the case of fatal foetal abnormality.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution, which calls for increased efforts to tackle gender inequality through the renewal of the eu’s gender action plan (gap i). the resolution specifically calls for further action on two millennium development goals (mdg) – increasing gender equality and women’s empowerment, and reducing maternal mortality rates. the resolution welcomes the commission’s intention to initiate a transformative shift with gap ii and calls for it to take the form of a commission communication. i voted in favour of amendment 1, which calls for access to safe abortion for women and girls who are victims of rape in armed conflicts. i also voted in favour of amendment 2, which calls for further efforts globally to ensure access to safe abortion services, in the context of addressing the mdg on maternal health by reducing the incidence of high-risk births. sinn féin believes that the option of a termination should be available where there is a real and substantial risk to the life of a pregnant woman – including where she is suicidal – that would be averted only by an abortion; in the case of rape or incest; and in the case of fatal foetal abnormality.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution as it is positive step in making gender equality a reality.
in writing. – i voted in favour of this resolution, which calls for increased efforts to tackle gender inequality through the renewal of the eu’s gender action plan (gap i). the resolution specifically calls for further action on two millennium development goals (mdg) – increasing gender equality and women’s empowerment, and reducing maternal mortality rates. the resolution welcomes the commission’s intention to initiate a transformative shift with gap ii and calls for it to take the form of a commission communication. i voted in favour of amendment 1, which calls for access to safe abortion for women and girls who are victims of rape in armed conflicts. i also voted in favour of amendment 2, which calls for further efforts globally to ensure access to safe abortion services, in the context of addressing the mdg on maternal health by reducing the incidence of high-risk births. sinn féin believes that the option of a termination should be available where there is a real and substantial risk to the life of a pregnant woman – including where she is suicidal – that would be averted only by an abortion; in the case of rape or incest; and in the case of fatal foetal abnormality.
the president, who was appointed by the title of "go mbeadh gach feisire i bhfabhar" in that report, had problems with the care of many children. caithfear is without thuish. and finally, there were 344 fheisire and 568 bhfabhar. i was surprised to see the report on the motion on 17th august (1) (2); my party, fine gael, voted against my group in the last election. but in general, we need to do a lot more about the equity that we have between our women, especially in the pensions, to give them the freedom to do what they want. however, this is already the case in many of the countries where new rules for equality are to be established in the eu in the future.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, calling on the commission to address the failure by many member states to tackle the gender pay gap, which stands at an average of 16.4% across the eu. in ireland, women continue to earn on average 14% less than their male counterparts, a situation which is unacceptable in the 21st century. this is a positive and strong report that stresses the need to introduce binding measures in order to tackle the roots of this discrimination. it calls for pressure on unequal pay practices and for the promotion of wage transparency, as requested by trade unions and gender equality bodies. it also calls for the introduction of mandatory pay audits for companies listed on the stock exchanges, and for sanctions against those companies that fail to implement equal pay, including their exclusion from the public procurement of goods and services from the eu budget. the report calls on member states to take steps to reverse the burden of proof, so the employer would have to prove that a difference in treatment had not been caused by discrimination. additional elements include introducing quotas for women at management level in companies, and taking measures to improve work-family balance.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, calling on the commission to address the failure by many member states to tackle the gender pay gap, which stands at an average of 16.4% across the eu. in ireland, women continue to earn on average 14% less than their male counterparts, a situation which is unacceptable in the 21st century. this is a positive and strong report that stresses the need to introduce binding measures in order to tackle the roots of this discrimination. it calls for pressure on unequal pay practices and for the promotion of wage transparency, as requested by trade unions and gender equality bodies. it also calls for the introduction of mandatory pay audits for companies listed on the stock exchanges, and for sanctions against those companies that fail to implement equal pay, including their exclusion from the public procurement of goods and services from the eu budget. the report calls on member states to take steps to reverse the burden of proof, so the employer would have to prove that a difference in treatment had not been caused by discrimination. additional elements include introducing quotas for women at management level in companies, and taking measures to improve work-family balance.
in writing. ‒ addressing the unequal pay gap is an aspiration as old as the european community itself, yet we still have an average pay gap of 16% between men and women, with ireland faring just slightly less badly, at over 14%. equal pay for equal work was enshrined in the founding treaties over 60 years ago, and an equal pay directive was put in place in 1975 and recast a decade ago. this is not just a matter of principle, equality and justice. this baseless pay discrimination between men and women for the same kind of work entails compounded losses in income and pension rights over a woman’s contributory lifetime. and that is without counting the increased periods women spend out of the work or in part-time work, performing unpaid work as mothers or carers for other dependent relatives, or housework. at best, this represents a blatant, unjustified and mounting loss of income compared with male colleagues but, for the least advantaged women, it means a higher risk of poverty and greater propensity to fall ill due to the unrecognised, unremunerated forms of work. member states are simply failing to apply the law. we want it to include sanctions, and to see the commission treating this with the seriousness that is invested in other policy areas, such as anti-trust law, for example.
in writing. ‒ the issue is not so much that women are paid less for doing the same jobs. the issue is that women are less likely to be employed in the high-paying jobs. comparing men and women job by job conceals the fact that men still dominate many of the highest-paying jobs. why is this? well, there are a variety of reasons including the fact that women are still the primary carers in irish and european families. we are the ones who make the most sacrifices when it comes to raising babies and looking after elderly family members. a commission report shows us that only 65.8% of women with young children in the eu are working, compared to 89.1% of men. that can change only with laws that are targeted at changing our childcare culture – such as the introduction of real and progressive paternity care.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this motion because it stresses the need for urgent action, as girls and young women are at a particular disadvantage with regard to opportunities and employment. specific focus is needed on ensuring that girls have access to education and on removing discriminatory legislation and practices in the realm of employment. in order to empower girls and young women globally these targets need to be achieved.
in writing. ‒ i supported this report as i am an advocate of promoting gender balance. binding quotas are already a part of the irish political landscape.
in writing. – i voted in favour of this report, calling on the commission to address the failure by many member states to tackle the gender pay gap, which stands at an average of 16.4% across the eu. in ireland, women continue to earn on average 14% less than their male counterparts, a situation which is unacceptable in the 21st century. this is a positive and strong report that stresses the need to introduce binding measures in order to tackle the roots of this discrimination. it calls for pressure on unequal pay practices and for the promotion of wage transparency, as requested by trade unions and gender equality bodies. it also calls for the introduction of mandatory pay audits for companies listed on the stock exchanges, and for sanctions against those companies that fail to implement equal pay, including their exclusion from the public procurement of goods and services from the eu budget. the report calls on member states to take steps to reverse the burden of proof, so the employer would have to prove that a difference in treatment had not been caused by discrimination. additional elements include introducing quotas for women at management level in companies, and taking measures to improve work-family balance.
mr president, i listened very carefully to the debate and particularly to what president juncker had to say. i think that, while we might have been slow in responding initially, we were caught unawares. the european union is making every effort to deal with this humanitarian crisis and i am quite sure the member states are doing likewise. i know my own country, hopefully, is living up to its responsibilities. but we have to ask the question: why do the migrants want to come here? it is because of the pull factors: the quality of life, fundamental rights, etc. and why are they not going to countries like russia, china or north korea? i think this is something that should be borne in mind when people are criticising the european union for its failings, rather than directing our gaze at those countries where the migrants would not want to go at all. and there are also, of course, as has been pointed out, the push factors. i am very pleased that we are now beginning to look at those and put measures in place to first of all bring peace to these countries and then help them to prosper.
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on industry, research and energy.– mr president, as rapporteur for the committee on industry, research and energy (itre), i want to thank my colleagues who helped me to get what i think is a very balanced opinion. i would also like to thank mr pargneaux and my friend and colleague karl-heinz florenz for taking our opinion on board and incorporating it in the overall draft. hopefully we will now get a strong mandate, going forward to paris, from the entire parliament, because global warming is something i think we all recognise is happening. we have to deal with climate change and we are going there with form, in the sense that we have given leadership in the past and we intend to do so into the future. but it is absolutely essential that the big emitters in particular come on board. if they do not, then we are actually wasting our time. so it is very important that we go and say that we have commitments and we are going to honour our commitments, but the other major emitters – and indeed all the other states of the world – have to come on board if we are to save the planet for future generations. so that is the target.
in writing. ‒ i abstained on this report which is aimed at setting the date of entry into force of an eu decision. the decision in question is aimed at allowing europol and other authorities to consult the visa information system. as i am opposed to any law—enforcement authority accessing the visa information system or any other non-legal enforcement databases, i abstained on this decision setting a date of entry into force. such interference has a stigmatising effect on migrants and foreign travellers. given my opposition to the main legal text, i abstained on when it should come into effect.
in writing. ‒ the draft amending budget (dab) no 6/2015 is a compulsory annual report and is primarily technical in nature. the report concerns the revision of the forecast of traditional own resources, vat and gni bases (eu budget revenue side). essentially, the uk made a mistake in their national budget contribution to the annual eu budget. in practice, this meant that several member states had to pay more than they were supposed to, due to this mistake. therefore, this dab 6/2015 has no impact on the expenditure aspect of the 2015 eu budget, it instead concerns the distribution between the member states’ own resources contributions due to the facts outlined above. it was for these reasons that i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ as a result of the humanitarian crisis facing refugees and the urgent need for funding i voted in favour of this report. the report caters for an extra eur 401.3 million in eu funding to manage the refugee crisis; funding will go to provide immediate resources to respond to demands from the unhcr and the world food programme and other relevant organisations. this will provide immediate support to refugees. the funding will also go towards helping with the coastguard effort to rescue floundering vessels and reduce ocean fatalities. the passing of this report and increased funding is the right step in tackling the eu’s incapacity to deal with the current refugee crisis in a more humane, efficient and effective way. that includes enhancing solidarity and responsibility-sharing among member states.
in writing. ‒ as a result of the humanitarian crisis facing refugees and the urgent need for funding i voted in favour of this report. the report caters for an extra eur 401.3 million in eu funding to manage the refugee crisis; funding will go to provide immediate resources to respond to demands from the unhcr and the world food programme and other relevant organisations. this will provide immediate support to refugees. the funding will also go towards helping with the coastguard effort to rescue floundering vessels and reduce ocean fatalities. the passing of this report and increased funding is the right step in tackling the eu’s incapacity to deal with the current refugee crisis in a more humane, efficient and effective way. that includes enhancing solidarity and responsibility-sharing among member states.
in writing. – as a result of the humanitarian crisis facing refugees and the urgent need for funding i voted in favour of this report. the report caters for an extra eur 401.3 million in eu funding to manage the refugee crisis, funding will go to provide immediate resources to respond to demands from the unhcr and the world food programme and other relevant organisations. this will provide immediate support to refugees. the funding will also go towards helping with the coastguard effort to rescue floundering vessels and reduce ocean fatalities. the passing of this report and increased funding is the right step in tackling the eu’s incapacity to deal with the current refugee crisis in a more humane, efficient and effective way. that includes enhancing solidarity and responsibility-sharing among member states.
in writing. ‒ i supported this given the urgent need to adequately address the humanitarian refugee crisis in europe and at its borders. the report calls for the european union to do more to address the current refugee crisis, stating that the current measures proposed are insufficient. i welcome the call for the commission to present a sustainable long-term plan for the crisis and particularly welcome and support the focus on search and rescue operations. we need an immediate response as more people than ever are seeking protection in europe.
in writing. ‒ i supported this, given the urgent need to adequately address the humanitarian refugee crisis in europe and at its borders. the report calls for the european union to do more to address the current refugee crisis, stating that the current measures proposed are insufficient. i welcome the call for the commission to present a sustainable long-term plan for the crisis, and particularly welcome and support the focus on search and rescue operations. we need an immediate response as more people than ever are seeking protection in europe.
in writing. ‒ this vote was concerned with a request for a parliamentary waiver for a member of parliament. the investigation appears to have been at least partially carried out by the intelligence services of hungary, with no access to case documents for the defendant, which is a serious violation of the equality of arms principles in fair trials law. moreover, there are a number of concerns which have been raised recently by the international legal community concerning the objectivity of hungary’s judicial system which, it has been contended, has been interfered with by the use of fidesz-dictated cardinal laws. therefore, this raises serious doubts about the independence of the prosecution. it was for these reasons that i abstained on this vote.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report as i have a number of concerns with the efsi plan and i believe that many of its provisions are fundamentally flawed. the plan contains no provision in which to boost public investment, and for the most part the efsi is a pilot project dressed up as a structural fund. there is no real increase in funds being made available. it is simply picking up money that the european budget and the eib had already allocated to attract private investment, weakening its legal framework and thereby increasing the exposure of public resources in the interests of the private sector. the efsi, with sufficient political will and a commitment to boost public investment, could be used as a positive tool for much—needed investment. unfortunately, no such commitment has been displayed and as it stands this project is merely style over substance.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report as i have a number of concerns with the efsi plan and i believe that many of its provisions are fundamentally flawed. the plan contains no provision in which to boost public investment, and for the most part the efsi is a pilot project dressed up as a structural fund. there is no real increase in funds being made available. it is simply picking up money that the european budget and the eib had already allocated to attract private investment, weakening its legal framework and thereby increasing the exposure of public resources in the interests of the private sector. the efsi, with sufficient political will and a commitment to boost public investment, could be used as a positive tool for much needed investment. unfortunately, no such commitment has been displayed and as it stands this project is merely style over substance.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution which outlines parliament’s position towards the un conference on climate change to be held in paris in december. the challenge of cop 21 is delivering a new global climate agreement involving all countries by 2015, giving a renewed commitment after the kyoto protocol. this resolution was an effort to give vigour to the negotiating positions of the commission and council as representatives of eu member states. the report gives an inclusive view of the role of civil society, the respect of human rights and indigenous persons’ rights and all targets are foreseen in the attempt to limit the global rise in temperature below 2oc.
in writing. ‒ climate change is nothing less than an existential threat. climate change is affecting and will increasingly continue to affect every aspect of our lives, our well—being, our health, our economy and the ecosystems we depend on for survival. in ireland alone, our sea levels are rising on average about 3.5 cm per decade, we are facing more frequent and more serious sea storms, we face wetter autumn and winter seasons, leading to floods, and drier summers, leading to water shortages. we are more exposed to uv light than we have even been, the depletion of ozone will drastically increase the incidence of all types of skin cancer. the impact of climate change and its causes on our health is already evident. where there is high air pollution, a greater number of children are admitted into hospitals with lung problems, the quality of the water which we drink has decreased considerably. we urgently need a binding agreement, showing international collective responsibility, to reduce our greenhouse gas emissions. we are at serious risk of failure in averting dangerous and potentially catastrophic climate change.
mr president, since we last sat here in strasbourg we have witnessed a terrible tragedy in ireland in which ten members of the irish travelling community were burned while they slept in their beds on a residential halting site. with your agreement, i would like the minutes of this sitting to reflect this parliament’s condolences to the family. on that same weekend, a member of the irish police force, an garda síochána, tony golden, was killed while on duty. again, i would like – with your support – to include our condolences to his family in the minutes of these proceedings.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this purely technical report which repeals two acts that have ceased to serve any legislative function. the directives in question are related to the fixing of maximum levels of erucic acid in fats and oils and another establishing a temporary scheme for restructuring the sugar industry. the former is now included in a regulation in the same format and the latter is no longer applicable as it only concerned temporary measures.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this purely technical report which repeals two acts that have ceased to serve any legislative function. the directives in question are related to the fixing of maximum levels of erucic acid in fats and oils and another establishing a temporary scheme for restructuring the sugar industry. the former is now included in a regulation in the same format, and the latter is no longer applicable as it only concerned temporary measures.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour as it was necessary. both acts have become obsolete since the content of council directive 76/621/eec has been taken up by the subsequent regulation 1881/2006, whereas council regulation 320/2006 only established a temporary scheme, which is no longer applicable.
in writing. ‒ i have supported this report because certain legal acts adopted in the last decades no longer have continued relevance, either because their content has been taken up by subsequent acts, or due to their temporary character. in accordance with the interinstitutional agreement on better law making, union law should be updated and condensed by removing acts which are no longer applied in order to improve transparency and certainty.
in writing. ‒ i voted to repeal both council directive 76/621/eec and council regulation (ec) no 320/2006, as both acts have become outdated since the content of council directive 76/621/eec was taken up by the subsequent regulation 1881/2006, while council regulation 320/2006 only established a temporary scheme which is no longer valid.
in writing. – i voted in favour of this purely technical report which repeals two acts that have ceased to serve any legislative function. the directives in question are related to the fixing of maximum levels of erucic acid in fats and oils and another establishing a temporary scheme for restructuring the sugar industry. the former is now included in a regulation in the same format, and the latter is no longer applicable as it only concerned temporary measures.
the president voted against the report, but i think we have made a mistake in the right direction. but of course, it's also used by many people with bank accounts in switzerland and other countries to avoid having to pay for their own money. but of course, also, there is a great deal of our laws in switzerland and there are advantages to the people in switzerland because of their religion. at the same time, it is in our interest to put laws in place to ensure that citizens have the right to pay. is toach maith is seo, mar tar éis 2018 beidh malartú eolais airgeadais idir an taontas agus an eilvéis. this is the first time that the european commission has published a report on the financial situation of the eu. but of course, if everyone is doing their job, there will be less of a problem for the citizens. therefore, is dul chun cinn maith is seo.
in writing. ‒ while the intentions of this report were positive, it is another unfortunate case of style over substance. this is reflective of the democratic deficit which permeates the eu and means that much of the actions taken are often elaborate pr stunts. in this situation, the council had decided on this report beforehand and only consulted parliament after the ratification of the agreement. by way of background information, this agreement was signed on 27 may 2015 and it relates to automatic exchange of financial account information and is aimed at improving international tax cooperation and compliance. the rapporteur did present a number of very good suggestions and tabled some important critiques but the council refused to take them on board. it was for these reasons that i abstained on the report.
in writing. ‒ while the intentions of this report were positive, it is another unfortunate case of style over substance. this is reflective of the democratic deficit which permeates the eu and means that much of the actions taken are often elaborate pr stunts. in this situation, the council had decided on this report beforehand and only consulted parliament after the ratification of the agreement. by way of background information, this agreement was signed on 27 may 2015 and it relates to automatic exchange of financial account information and is aimed at improving international tax cooperation and compliance. the rapporteur did present a number of very good suggestions and tabled some important critiques but the council refused to take them on board. it was for these reasons that i abstained on the report.
in writing. ‒ i abstained because there is an obvious absence of any real effort at true reform in the agreement.
in writing. ‒ i supported this report as it is aimed towards improving international tax compliance and stresses the importance of taking effective action against fraud and tax avoidance. in particular it stresses taking effective action against tax evasion and tax avoidance by natural and legal persons based in the european union with the involvement of financial institutions based in third countries.
in writing. – while the intentions of this report were positive, it is another unfortunate case of style over substance. this is reflective of the democratic deficit which permeates the eu and means that much of the actions taken are often elaborate pr stunts. in this situation, the council had decided on this report beforehand and only consulted parliament after the ratification of the agreement. by way of background information, this agreement was signed on 27 may 2015 and it relates to automatic exchange of financial account information and is aimed at improving international tax cooperation and compliance. the rapporteur did present a number of very good suggestions and tabled some important critiques but the council refused to take them on board. it was for these reasons that i abstained on the report.
madam president, we have the 2003 directive and the 2014 directive, but they are not entirely compatible in all areas. this results in dual reporting standards in the union in certain cases. i welcome the recommendation in this report that we must avoid a situation of double reporting so as to avoid unnecessary burdens for member states. nevertheless, while the repeal may be necessary to avoid double reporting, i am in agreement with the rapporteur that the commission must continue to closely monitor the repeal of the directive so as to avoid the creation of tax loopholes, and it should report back to parliament on its findings of any such loopholes that may arise. i commend the call in this report that the commission should act, if necessary by means of legislative proposals, in order to ensure that such loopholes are closed. this measure would ensure that the risk of loss of tax revenue from my own member state and other member states across the union is reduced.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report. this report was concerned with the eu savings tax directive which was adopted as a measure to ensure that tax is paid on the interest of savings, and the provisions became applicable in 2005. the directive applied among eu countries and in separate agreements between eu countries and 12 overseas territories. in parallel, the commission, on behalf of the european union, negotiated similar bilateral agreements with five non-eu european countries. as part of its march 2015 tax transparency package, the commission proposed to repeal the 2003 savings tax directive so that member states do not have to apply the provisions in both directives, avoiding the inconvenience of double systems of collecting and reporting of data. it was decided that this should be fast—tracked under what is referred to as the fast—track procedure according to rule 50 of the rules of procedure i.e. no vote in committee unless more than 10 percent of members object.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour because overall it reduces any potential loss of tax revenue for ordinary citizens.
in writing. ‒ i chose to support this report due to the concern regarding the potential to create loopholes and balancing this against the risk of burdensome double reporting. this report helps support the principle of fair taxation and helps tackle tax avoidance.
in writing. – i voted in favour of this report. this report was concerned with the eu savings tax directive which was adopted as a measure to ensure that tax is paid on the interest of savings, and the provisions became applicable in 2005. the directive applied among eu countries and in separate agreements between eu countries and 12 overseas territories. in parallel, the commission, on behalf of the european union, negotiated similar bilateral agreements with five non-eu european countries. as part of its march 2015 tax transparency package, the commission proposed to repeal the 2003 savings tax directive, so that member states do not have to apply the provisions in both directives, avoiding the inconvenience of double systems of collecting and reporting of data. it was decided that this should be fast—tracked under what is referred to as the fast—track procedure according to rule 50 of the rules of procedure i.e. no vote in committee unless more than 10 percent of members object.
in writing. ‒ i abstained on this report which deals with the stepping up of cross-border cooperation to combat terrorism and cross-border crime. according to a previous decision, personal data may not be supplied until general provisions on data protection have been implemented in national law. the council now states that sweden has fully implemented the general provisions on data protection and can begin to receive and supply personal data under decision 2008/615/jha. this report is related to the implementation of the prüm decision, which i have consistently opposed, but these particular reports deal with the implementation of the data protection safeguards for fingerprint data exchange to occur. as i have always advocated for the implementation of adequate data protection safeguards for personal data exchange, i abstained.
in writing. ‒ the reports are related to the implementation of the prüm decision, which i oppose but these particular reports deal with the implementation of the data protection safeguards for fingerprint data exchange to occur, and i advocate for the implementation of adequate data protection safeguards for personal data exchange. therefore, as a compromise between those two angles, i abstained.
in writing. ‒ i supported this report as it helps the facilitation of exchange of such data for the fight against terrorism and cross—border crimes.
in writing. ‒ i abstained on this report which deals with the stepping up of cross-border cooperation to combat terrorism and cross-border crime. according to a previous decision personal data may not be supplied until general provisions on data protection have been implemented in national law. the council now states that belgium has fully implemented the general provisions on data protection and can begin to receive and supply personal data under decision 2008/615/jha. this report is related to the implementation of the prüm decision, which i have consistently opposed, but these particular reports deal with the implementation of the data protection safeguards for fingerprint data exchange to occur. as i have always advocated for the implementation of adequate data protection safeguards for personal data exchange, i abstained.
in writing. ‒ as a compromise between the two angles, i again abstained.
in writing. ‒ i supported this report as it helps the facilitation of exchange of such data for the fight against terrorism and cross—border crimes.
in writing. ‒ i abstained on this report which deals with the stepping up of cross-border cooperation to combat terrorism and cross-border crime. according to a previous decision, personal data may not be supplied until general provisions on data protection have been implemented in national law. the council now states that poland has fully implemented the general provisions on data protection and can begin to receive and supply personal data under decision 2008/615/jha. this report is related to the implementation of the prüm decision, which i have consistently opposed, but these particular reports deal with the implementation of the data protection safeguards for fingerprint data exchange to occur. as i have always advocated for the implementation of adequate data protection safeguards for personal data exchange, i abstained.
in writing. ‒ as a compromise between the two angles, i again abstained.
in writing. ‒ i supported this report as it helps the facilitation of exchange of such data for the fight against terrorism and cross—border crimes.
madam president, i support this report as well, particularly as currently two-thirds of package travel sales take place online. this is a huge increase in recent years, so an updated directive suitable for the digital age is much needed. this proposal meets the challenges of both the modern environment and traditional sales. package travel is becoming increasingly popular, and this directive protects both the consumer and businesses by setting clear standards for liability, cancellation, reimbursement and a limit for post-contractual price increase. if a package travel service goes bankrupt, measures in place mean that payments already made by customers are secured through clear insolvency provisions. dá bhrí sin, vótáil mé i bhfabhar na tuarascála seo mar cabhróidh sé le suas le 120 milliún duine a bhíonn ag taisteal gach uile bhliain agus a cheannaíonn ticéid agus mar sin de ar an idirlíon. tabharfaidh sé cosaint dóibh agus cabhróidh sé leo gan eur 430 milliún a chailliúint gach uile bhliain.
in writing. ‒ on the collin-langen (imco) ‘package travel and linked travel arrangement’, i abstained. whilst i acknowledge that there were positive aspects to this report, especially regarding improving and protecting consumer rights, there were lingering concerns, particularly on the level of harmonisation involved for implementation, as it is based on the assumption that it is suitable for all 28 member states. also, at the european council of ministers during the summer ireland withdrew its support, citing that it risks hindering innovation and competition. there are also data protection concerns, and the degree of compensation for consumers around cancellations of packages by a travel organiser was not adequately addressed.
in writing. ‒ i abstained on this report which primarily dealt with the scope of protection for travellers when purchasing combinations of travel services. my reasons for abstaining were threefold. first, the scope provided for full harmonisation such that the rights of travellers and business competitiveness received equal protection. it is my belief that consumers’ rights cannot be best served when business competitiveness needs to be served as well through full harmonisation. second, the consequence of price change in the report is such that in case of a change in the cost of fuel, a traveller may be asked to pay more money. there was however no provision in the text that allowed the alternate to benefit the traveller in case the price of fuel decreased. finally, in ireland the tourism industry consists mostly of smes. according to this report, these smes would have to take out insolvency protection on behalf of larger providers than themselves when they come to be classified as a package travel provider, or, a linked travel arrangement. this report does not adequately protect a tourism industry dominated by smes and for this reason, i abstained.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour, however with many reservations for consumer protection.
in writing. ‒ i supported this proposal for a directive on package travel and assisted travel arrangements. i accidentally supported the amendment to reject the council position at first reading and have since corrected my vote. it has become necessary to adapt the legislative framework established by the 1990 directive to online market developments, remove ambiguities and close legislative gaps given the evolution of the travel market and the ever increasing role played by the internet in how consumers research, organise and purchase travel products. this directive will increase consumer rights with stricter controls on price surcharges, a requirement to pass price reductions and compensation for non-material damages, etc., as well as covering business travellers under the directive so that smes and independent workers can also benefit from its protection.
in writing. ‒ i decided to support this report as such a level of harmonisation is in the best interests of eu consumers. the report strengthens travellers’ insolvency protection and also gives travellers the possibility of taking up an equivalent package when the organiser alters a main component of the package travel contract unilaterally. this considerably strengthens consumer rights and protection.
in writing. – on the collin-langen (imco) ‘package travel and linked travel arrangement’, i abstained. whilst i acknowledge that there were positive aspects to this report, especially regarding improving and protecting consumer rights, there were lingering concerns, particularly on the level of harmonisation involved for implementation as it is based on the assumption that it is suitable for all 28 member states. also, at the european council of ministers during the summer ireland withdrew its support, citing that it risks hindering innovation and competition. there are also data protection concerns, and the degree of compensation for consumers around cancellations of packages by a travel organiser was not adequately addressed.
madam president, i co-signed and voted in favour of the amendments that would have guaranteed net neutrality across the eu. this was a unique opportunity for the european parliament to make its power and its presence felt. it is important to say that there were some good outcomes from today’s vote: we will be putting an end to roaming charges, and i agree with my colleague, jens rohde, that we had to take a decision here in parliament, but i am disappointed because i believe we could have gone further. we should have taken this opportunity to define net neutrality as the principle by which all internet traffic is treated equally without discrimination, restriction or interference, independent of its sender, recipient, type, content, device, service or application. finally, it is important to say that member states like the netherlands can adopt regulations and enshrine net neutrality in their own domestic law.
madam president, this is my last contribution right now. so i think it is a good one because this is a day of celebration – celebration for the european union, because we have shown very clearly that, when we work together, we can do so for the benefit of all citizens of europe – and indeed all businesses – and particularly, as has been said, we are saying goodbye to roaming. this is something we have fought long and hard for, and it shows also the power of the european parliament and the european union that it can take on big businesses and defeat them for the benefit of consumers, because the roaming charges, which were excessive, are now going to end in 2017. that is certainly something to celebrate. also, as my colleague and rapporteur pilar del castillo said, it guarantees open internet, equal access and protects consumers. people have different views on net neutrality, but that is also enshrined in it from our point of view and i think most people agree with that.
in writing. ‒ this vote was broken into two parts. the first part was a vote to reject the council’s position and the second part consisted of 12 amendments, which i co-signed, to reinstall crucial definitions and references to the principle of net neutrality throughout the text. i voted in favour of all parts. my reasons for rejecting the council’s position were that during the course of negotiations, the text of this report was significantly watered down. the abolition of roaming charges initially foreseen for december 2015 was postponed until june 2017. on top of this, all references to net neutrality were deleted from the text, leaving the door completely open to a two-speed internet, an internet that would allow isps to discriminate between internet traffic to the detriment of smaller companies, newspapers and blogs. as the council’s position was completely inadequate in terms of protecting net neutrality and respecting the need to abolish roaming charges as early as possible, i voted to reject it.
in writing. ‒ this vote was broken into two parts. the first part was a vote to reject the council’s position and the second part consisted of 12 amendments, which i co-signed, to reinstall crucial definitions and references to the principle of net neutrality throughout the text. i voted in favour of all parts. my reasons for rejecting the council’s position were that during the course of negotiations, the text of this report was significantly watered down. the abolition of roaming charges initially foreseen for december 2015 was postponed until june 2017. on top of this, all references to net neutrality were deleted from the text, leaving the door completely open to a two-speed internet, an internet that would allow isps to discriminate between internet traffic to the detriment of smaller companies, newspapers and blogs. as the council’s position was completely inadequate in terms of protecting net neutrality and respecting the need to abolish roaming charges as early as possible, i voted to reject it.
in writing. ‒ i would have liked to vote for a stronger regulation reform today, but this was the only possible compromise on the table to get eu wide progress. that is why i chose not to block the compromise struck between the institutions. conservatives in parliament tend to raise the banner of freedom to do business without hindrance across the eu’s national borders, but drag their feet when the profits of big providers are at stake, even when they make no more economic or legal sense. it has taken the s&d group many years of persuasion to introduce progressive roaming caps in successive eu regulation reviews for us to finally have a deadline to scrap roaming, including a final reduction between 2016 and june 2017. still, we had to accept fair-use caveats and special circumstances where companies may need to be able to recover costs, as eu governments insisted. we managed to impose equal internet traffic treatment across all 28 eu countries. national regulators will be empowered to ban the advantage given to certain, select apps when mobile operators charge consumers no cost for their data use. i am confident we will be able to evaluate, build upon and strengthen this reform soon, as innovation in the sector is only bound to accelerate.
in writing. ‒ this proposal aims to adopt measures concerning open internet access. it also aims to amend directive 2002/22/ec on universal service and users’ rights relating to electronic communications networks and services and regulation (eu) no 531/2012 on roaming on public mobile communications networks within the union. the regulation seeks to create unified rules to protect open internet access, with the aim of ceasing roaming surcharges. the protection of users’ rights whilst they make use of the internet is of growing importance in europe and elsewhere. the safeguarding of open internet access is crucial for the functioning of the european single market and protects electronic communications throughout the member states.
in writing. ‒ this hugely important proposal on the ‘telecoms single market’ contained a number of items including an end to rip-off roaming charges by june 2017 and huge savings by april 2016. it also contained some references and guarantees on net neutrality but crucially not enough to ensure it was guaranteed in all situations. i, along with other meps co-sponsored 11 amendments to guarantee net neutrality. i firstly voted against an amendment from the efdd which called for the european parliament to reject the entire package. if this amendment had gone through, roaming charges would have continued which would have been a field day for telecom companies and the rip-off of consumers would have continued. furthermore, the limited steps towards net neutrality would also have gone with absolutely no deal. we then voted on all 11 amendments regarding net neutrality which i supported. unfortunately they were defeated by a large majority. the outcome now is an end to roaming charges and limited provisions on net neutrality. the battle continues on net neutrality but it is important to note that member states can ensure this principle as the netherlands has done, so this is an issue for both member states and the eu.
in writing. ‒ i chose to support this report as it is of significant importance to establish a successful and functioning european digital single market. ultimately, we should aim to create an integrated and secure digital market in which digital giants are unable to abuse their dominant positions. free competition on the internet will boost innovation, which will in turn boost growth and job creation. i believe this report encourages these key principles.
in writing. ‒ i support the rapporteur as i believe it is a fair and balanced outcome following long discussions between the eu institutions that will ensure equal treatment of internet traffic and allow innovation to flourish. the principle of net neutrality will be preserved. internet service providers will be required to treat all traffic equally when providing internet access services, without discrimination, restriction or interference, irrespective of the sender and receiver, the content accessed or distributed, or the applications or services used. certain provisions are made for services requiring a specific level of quality, but this is on the condition that they do not interfere with the open internet and are not to the detriment of the availability or general quality of internet access services for end users. some traffic management is necessary in order to allow information to flow freely, rather on the technical quality of the service. providers of internet access services should inform end-users in a clear manner on how the traffic management practices may influence the quality of the internet access service, end-users’ privacy and the protection of personal data. additionally providers should inform end users of the speed normally available and the remedies in case of non-compliance.
in writing. – this vote was broken into two parts. the first part was a vote to reject the council’s position and the second part consisted of 12 amendments, which i co-signed, to reinstall crucial definitions and references to the principle of net neutrality throughout the text. i voted in favour of all parts. my reasons for rejecting the council’s position were that during the course of negotiations, the text of this report was significantly watered down. the abolition of roaming charges initially foreseen for december 2015 was postponed until june 2017. on top of this, all references to net neutrality were deleted from the text, leaving the door completely open to a two-speed internet, an internet that would allow isps to discriminate between internet traffic to the detriment of smaller companies, newspapers and blogs. as the council’s position was completely inadequate in terms of protecting net neutrality and respecting the need to abolish roaming charges as early as possible, i voted to reject it.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, which strengthens the existing anti-torture regulation, imposing eu-wide export controls on items that can be used for torture and execution such as drugs used in lethal injections. in particular, i voted in favour of the establishment of an anti-torture coordination group which is a reviewing and reporting body with representatives from all eu member states, but without any new powers or transfer of powers away from the member states.
in writing. ‒ this proposal is crucial for the continued respect that the european union demonstrates for universal human rights. in limiting the access to goods and substances used to torture and commit capital punishment, these regulations ensure the lives and wellbeing of all are protected. this regulation recognises the importance of impeding entities profiting from the violation of human rights by inter alia selling equipment intended to facilitate capital punishment. updating the list of death-penalty ‘safe states’ is an important step in encouraging countries to continue treating human rights with due care and respect. the new rules avoid excessive regulation or bureaucratic burdens for legitimate medicine use. the proposal previously only regulated medicinal products for capital punishment but now also regulates for products used for torture or for other cruel, inhuman or degrading treatment or punishment.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour because it attempts to tackle the issue of torture.
in writing. ‒ i was very happy to support the updating of this important regulation which aims to eradicate the involvement of eu—based companies in the trade of goods which could be used for capital punishment or torture. the eu is committed to eliminating both torture and the death penalty globally but regrettably both practices still occur with trade in torture tools booming. although the commission has twice updated the lists of products covered by the regulation, loopholes still exist. this latest proposed update was strengthened by amendments from the parliament which i supported which aim to widen the current eu ban to include services, finance, transport and insurance and also ban transit of prohibited goods via the eu. the introduction of a ‘catch all clause’ which allows additional authorisation requirements to be imposed swiftly for goods not covered by the regulation ensures that additional safeguards against risks are in place and allows the regulation sufficient flexibility to react to changing technologies. an important qualification of the clause is that medicinal products not be covered even where they could be used for the purpose of capital punishment to prevent the restriction of legitimate use of medicinal products.
in writing. ‒ i supported this report as it positively contributes to the long—standing eu policy of eliminating the death penalty worldwide and the prevention of torture. the report helps achieve these aims by combining the prohibitions with licensing requirements for trade in listed goods. it governs a ban of trade in ‘single use’ torture and execution items and related technical assistance and an authorisation system for ‘multi-purpose’ items that could be misused for torture and executions by lethal injections.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, which contained a number of important, progressive provisions. this report emerged from the luxleaks scandal. the aim is to ensure the mandatory automatic exchange of information between tax administrations regarding advance cross-border rulings and advance pricing arrangements and to strengthen existing eu legislation. furthermore, the gue/ngl rapporteur managed to further strengthen the commission proposal in a number of key areas including strengthening reporting requirements – i.e. immediate exchange of information. my group tabled an alternative compromise stating that all rulings should be publicly available and not only stored somewhere in a central commission database in an aggregated form. the greens and efdd supported gue/ngl on this issue, but unfortunately it was rejected in committee. nevertheless, given that the report was still an improvement compared to the commission proposal and especially compared to the council position which was adopted even before the econ vote took place, i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, which contained a number of important, progressive provisions. this report emerged from the luxleaks scandal. the aim is to ensure the mandatory automatic exchange of information between tax administrations regarding advance cross-border rulings and advance pricing arrangements and to strengthen existing eu legislation. furthermore, the gue/ngl rapporteur managed to further strengthen the commission proposal in a number of key areas including strengthening reporting requirements – i.e. immediate exchange of information. my group tabled an alternative compromise stating that all rulings should be publicly available and not only stored somewhere in a central commission database in an aggregated form. the greens and efdd supported gue/ngl on this issue, but unfortunately it was rejected in committee. nevertheless, given that the report was still an improvement compared to the commission proposal and especially compared to the council position which was adopted even before the econ vote took place, i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ as usual when it comes to anything to do with finance, this doesn’t go as far as i’d like to see it go. i would have preferred more transparency, that all rulings should be available to the public, not buried somewhere in a central commission database in an aggregated form. nevertheless, it is a major improvement on the existing situation, making mandatory and automatic what had been optional, the exchange of information on tax matters, notably with regard to advance tax rulings for companies. doors that previously had been wide open aren’t being slammed shut, as they should be, but at least they are gradually being closed. i voted in favour for what is now a much improved situation.
in writing. ‒ i support the thrust of this report and believe we need to ensure mandatory automatic exchange of information regarding cross border rulings and advance pricing arrangements, right now member states can exchange information on tax rulings in a spontaneous way and therefore the majority of member states do not exchange any information. this proposal will ensure quicker exchange of information and there will be a secure central directory containing this information – all steps in the right direction because citizens and smes need to see real action on behalf of the eu when it comes to multinationals paying their fair share of taxes.
in writing. ‒ i decided to support this report as it a positive step towards increased transparency within the eu. the report is a step in the right direction in order to tackle the challenge posed by cross—border tax avoidance, aggressive tax planning and harmful tax competition.
in writing. – i voted in favour of this report, which contained a number of important, progressive provisions. this report emerged from the luxleaks scandal. the aim is to ensure the mandatory automatic exchange of information between tax administrations regarding advance cross-border rulings and advance pricing arrangements and to strengthen existing eu legislation. furthermore, the gue/ngl rapporteur managed to further strengthen the commission proposal in a number of key areas including strengthening reporting requirements – i.e. immediate exchange of information. my group tabled an alternative compromise stating that all rulings should be publicly available and not only stored somewhere in a central commission database in an aggregated form. the greens and efdd supported gue/ngl on this issue, but unfortunately it was rejected in committee. nevertheless, given that the report was still an improvement compared to the commission proposal and especially compared to the council position which was adopted even before the econ vote took place, i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ this discharge was a second report in respect of the implementation of the budget of the artemis joint undertaking for the financial year 2013. i voted in favour of this procedure as it was a mere formality and no significant irregularity had been detected.
in writing. ‒ the replies provided by the executive director of the ecsel joint undertaking (formerly the eniac joint undertaking) were considered to be satisfactory so i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ i supported this report granting the discharge as the artemis joint undertaking assists in the crucial development of key technologies for embedded computing systems across different application areas in order to strengthen eu competiveness and sustainability and to allow for the emergence of new markets and societal applications.
in writing. ‒ this discharge was a second report in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european institute of innovation and technology for the financial year 2013. i voted in favour this procedure as it is a mere formality and no significant irregularity has been detected.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour as no significant irregularity has been detected.
in writing. ‒ i chose to support this report in order to help address the shortcomings related to the quality of audit certificates which were previously compromised as they were issued by independent audit firms contracted by the grant beneficiaries. this report will also help correct previous problems identified by the analysis of staff exit interviews which highlighted a lack of clear career perspective, a difficult working environment and an unattractive salary package which led to a high turnover of staff. this will help strengthen middle management.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the closure of the eniac’s accounts for 2013 and in favour of the resolution. this was a second report in respect of the implementation of the budget of the eniac joint undertaking for the financial year 2013.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour as no significant irregularity in accountability has been detected in the recent evaluation.
in writing. ‒ i supported this report granting the discharge as the artemis joint undertaking assists in the crucial development of key technologies for embedded computing systems across different application areas in order to strengthen eu competiveness and sustainability and to allow for the emergence of new markets and societal applications.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of refusing discharge to the council and in favour of the accompanying resolution. the council continues to refuse to answer any questions from the european parliament, nor does it submit all relevant papers. the council upholds its position that the so-called ‘gentlemen’s agreement’ between council and parliament from 1970 means that council and parliament will not scrutinise the implementation of their respective sections of the budget. in practice this means that the council will not answer any questions or submit all the relevant papers. in addition to this, the council argues that it is granted discharge for its budget qua the decision to grant the commission discharge. this is in stark contrast to the current interpretation of the tfeu and subsequent practice where each heading of the budget is granted discharge individually in order to maintain transparency and democratic accountability. furthermore, the commission has (politely) rejected to take responsibility for the council’s budget. this lack of transparency in the use of taxpayers’ money is unacceptable. for this reason i voted in favour of the report, which postpones the decision to grant discharge.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of supporting this report in order to not grant discharge to the council.
in writing. ‒ i decided to support this report, which proposes to refuse the discharge as it is necessary to consider different possibilities to update the rules on granting discharge laid down in the tfeu.
in writing. ‒ this is a very good report criticising the slow response from national governments and the who to the ebola crisis last year and proposing measures to ensure developing countries are equipped to deal with a similar scenario in future. it identifies the structural adjustment programmes imposed on third-world countries, and their resulting debt and reduced investment in public services, as a key contributing factor to the crisis, and calls for increased investment in national and global health systems. it also welcomes the creation of an effective vaccine this year and calls for it to be affordable and accessible to every person in sierra leone, guinea and liberia. i therefore voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which criticises the slow response from national governments and the who to the ebola crisis last year, proposing measures to ensure developing countries are equipped to deal with a similar scenario in the future. this report identifies the structural adjustment programmes imposed on third-world countries, and their resulting debt and reduced investment in public services, as a key contributing factor to the crisis, and calls for increased investment in national and global health systems. it also welcomes the creation of an effective vaccine this year and calls for it to be affordable and accessible to every person in sierra leone, guinea and liberia.
in writing. ‒ i welcome today's adoption of the resolution on the ebola crisis. now that we are starting to see the end of this epidemic, we need to take on responsibilities to help the countries that have been affected by this tragic disease. by implementing development aid measures we can support the social and healthcare systems, particularly in sierra leone, liberia and guinea. these countries are ones recorded to be at the bottom of the united nations development programme human development index. their health and education systems are severely disrupted and the ebola crisis has left the population in seriously vulnerable conditions. even though the news are not reporting about the situation on the ground as often as it used to, it does not mean that the problems are resolved, far from it. the ebola crisis has set these countries back economically at least 5 to 10 years. the repercussions of non-functioning health and education systems will lead to further poverty, deprivation and a continued threat to global public health. this will no doubt have a knock-on effect on migration towards other african and eu countries.
in writing. ‒ this report takes into account that children and young women have become seriously marginalised as a result of the ebola crisis and that it has seriously threatened women’s engagement in the work force. many orphaned children face barriers to education as a result of the crisis. they also face a regression in access to health care due to stigmatisation. the report notes the insufficient amount of healthcare staff in areas such as guinea, liberia and sierra leone, and the deaths of almost 500 healthcare professionals as a result of the disease. for going forward it is imperative to provide more information and education on preventative measures. education should also be used as a tool to break the barriers of stigmatisation faced by so many recovering patients, and/or children of those patients. the report calls on the international community to provide help in disseminating information that could lead to a greater awareness and prevent future outbreaks of the disease.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour because it welcomes international efforts to alleviate the international debt burden of the countries affected by ebola.
in writing. ‒ i supported this report as it is very important to learn from the scale and complexities of the ebola crisis. it is an opportunity to reflect on the post-ebola period and develop strategies in order to strengthen health and educations systems in developing countries. the international community, in areas of research, innovation and crisis management, should learn from the ebola outbreak in order to better prepare for potential future epidemics.
in writing. – this is a very good report criticising the slow response from national governments and the who to the ebola crisis last year and proposing measures to ensure developing countries are equipped to deal with a similar scenario in future. it identifies the structural adjustment programmes imposed on third-world countries, and their resulting debt and reduced investment in public services, as a key contributing factor to the crisis, and calls for increased investment in national and global health systems. it also welcomes the creation of an effective vaccine this year and calls for it to be affordable and accessible to every person in sierra leone, guinea and liberia. i therefore voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution which dealt with the so-called volkswagen case. the immediate and strong common reaction to this scandal should be to restore consumers’ trust and to stop these horrendous environmentally hazardous activities in europe.
in writing. ‒ through the socialist and democrats group for years we have been crying out and pushing for realistic testing that assesses real, on-road conditions. it was well known that the current ones and, by extension, the euro 6 standards, were a joke on everyone who can breathe. only this week, the first peer-reviewed academic study came out, estimating that 60 premature deaths can be attributed to volkswagen cars in the us alone when the european automobile industry knows they can dictate policy whenever their bottom line is at stake, championed by the union’s most powerful country, is it any wonder that they believe themselves free to act like they are above the law? ultimately, postponing necessary measures serves only to generate short-term savings for private interests that come at a huge cost to society as a whole. those who think themselves pragmatic by protecting the industry and the european economy by doing so are seriously deluded. they are postponing the roll-out of clean innovation solutions that are the future of the car industry and others, subsidising the dirtiest kinds of fossil fuels, like diesel, in all sorts of visible and invisible ways. they are lying to themselves and to the public and, in the process, condemning many of us to a premature death.
in writing. ‒ air pollution by emission is becoming a serious threat to eu citizens’ health, causing 430 000 premature deaths every year. the report notes that transport continues to contribute to poor air quality in urban areas and 20 member states are currently not meeting the eu air quality limits. an investigation into vehicle emissions test manipulation is welcomed and extensive checks should be conducted by the relevant national authorities. the commission should put in place a new real driving emissions test cycle as soon as practicable. these measures will strive to protect the wellbeing of eu citizens who are currently at risk of contracting diseases due to overexposure. this measure will also work to create additional protection for the environment, aiming to regulate emissions.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour as much mere transparency is needed i this area. how could anyone disagree at this stage.
in writing. ‒ i supported this report but was disappointed that an amendment to ensure reimbursement of subsidies and tax benefits received on the basis of claimed environmental performance where a defeat device was found was narrowly defeated. this sends the wrong messages to member states and to companies. eu subsidies must be conditional on a genuine and documented effort to earn them – otherwise the penalties for non-compliance are meaningless. surely fraud has to be punished at all levels. secondly there is the thorny question of who is to blame, and if we are to call for enquiries/investigations etc. we cannot prejudge the outcomes. we accepted the need for these enquiries, so saying someone was to blame or not to blame at this point in time is redundant. the time for that debate is when we see the outcome of investigations and not before.
in writing. ‒ i chose to support this report because although the automotive industry is one of the key contributors to growth, employment and innovation, decisive action must be taken against the current scandals which risk undermining the reputation and competiveness of the entire sector. air pollution causes over 430 000 premature deaths in the eu yearly and costs up to an estimated eur 940 billion annually as result of the health impacts. up to a third of the eu’s urban population continues to be exposed to levels above the limits or targets values set by the eu and transport continues to be a main contributor to these poor air quality levels.
in writing. ‒ i supported this report which calls for the establishment of common european car emission tests which resemble real driving conditions as much as possible, instead of the lab-based test currently in use in the european union. this will help prevent fraud and restore trust in the automotive industry.
the next item is the report by josé manuel fernandes and gérard deprez, on behalf of the committee on budgets, on the draft general budget of the european union for the financial year 2016 – all sections [11706/2015 – c8-0274/2015 – 2015/2132(bud)] (a8-0298/2015).
the gue/ngl group is the leader. the president welcomes the improvements made by the budget committee on the position of the council and the commission on the 2016 budget, but it is still far from what we need to address today. i'm glad you're ready to take a look at the great airgeadais illbliantúil. the commission is of course very pleased with the increase in the cosme programme, which is very much in line with parliament, especially after a substantial reduction in the council. we must be more careful and act with less than eur 6 billion in our budget from 2007 to 2013. the financial problems of the country are still very much in evidence, and it is not easy to see why we were again in 2007 and 2014. i'm not sure i'm right, but i'm sure there's a lot of people in the states who don't do anything about it. we are now in the midst of a battle with the ghanim. the european union must be realistic about this, but surely, in 2017 the financial consequences of this will be shocking.
on behalf of the gue/ngl group.– mr president, in july 2014 the then candidate for the commission presidency, jean-claude juncker, promised parliament that he was going to address the democratic deficit in relation to eu gm authorisations, and he stated that he would not want the commission to take a decision where the majority of member states had not encouraged it to do so. here we are – fast forward one year – and the promise to tackle the issue has been well and truly fudged. i welcome the votes by the committee on the environment, public health and food safety and the committee on agriculture and rural development to reject this half-baked proposal, and i call on all meps now to do the same. however, i urge colleagues not to allow the commission off the hook on this issue. it must go back to the drawing board and come up with a new proposal which is fit for purpose. citizens and environmental groups have genuine concerns surrounding gm foods, including about their environmental impact and their implications for food sovereignty, and these are clearly reflected in the decision by 19 member states to opt out of gm cultivation. with this weak proposal the commission has missed a good opportunity to address one of the weak spots – namely in relation to the authorisation procedure and the european food safety authority’s risk assessment procedure, which must be reformed. parliament itself, in its resolution on gm product 1507, called for a freeze on any new authorisations until the risk assessment procedure had been improved. it is a rarity when biotech companies and environmental ngos are in agreement. this proposal has more legal loopholes than a string vest, and i believe that the only people willing it to pass are the lawyers who will be cleaning up in the aftermath. ( the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8))
blue-card answer.– our wish, certainly in my party, is that the risk assessment for approving these products stands up to scrutiny. i do not believe it does that at the moment. this is about member states’ ability to choose whether or not they want that feed coming into their country or not.
mr president, i found it interesting that mep ashworth does not think emotion is important in this debate. well, when it comes to marketing and selling your food around the world, emotion is important, especially when you are trying to sell your products as clean and green and to use the fact that people are concerned about that. that is done. in ireland, if we cannot live up to that image – if we are using gm food to feed our cattle, etc. – that damages it. an interesting point was made by the ukip mep, mr agnew: would we want to stop it, in the morning? do we want to stop farmers feeding this in ireland? i would like to see that happen. obviously it cannot happen overnight, but i think we should have that goal and that target. we talk about democracy in here, but democracy is about listening to the people, and the people of europe have consistently expressed the opinion that they do not want gm foods. please do not tell me you want to feed the world: gm companies want to feed their fat bosses with foie gras and champagne. they do not give a damn about feeding the world; they care about feeding their bloody pockets.
mr president, i say to the commission: thanks; you are getting a lot of abuse this morning, but you have done justice to this debate by having it. it is important that we hear all these voices on the issue of gmo. it is wrong to say that european citizens are against gm technology. in the medical sector they welcome it with open arms. in the food sector there is scepticism, but not 99% of people are sceptical, despite the tone of this debate and the realities that have been spelled out. the european livestock sector uses gm protein for their livestock feed. one country grows gm. i welcome the debate because it allows the facts to elevate above some of the emotion. some of the comments here i would utterly disagree with, because i approve and accept the authorisation procedures that are in place. i am also aware that young scientists, including young irish scientists, are leaving the european union because there is not a welcoming environment for research in this area. i would like to compliment the former chair of the agriculture commission, paolo de castro, and support his comments. we need a sound debate on this, not a politicised one.
mr president, i just want to record my displeasure at not being called under catch-the-eye. i just want to say that i was in here at 8.25, before any of you arrived. i asked with the white paper to speak under catch-the-eye at the very outset and i was not called. i do not understand why; i do not need an explanation; it has happened before and it will probably happen again. it will not deter me from my work. in fact i will be here tonight around midnight as the last speaker on behalf of my group on financing for smes. so thank you for allowing me to make my point.
on behalf of the gue/ngl group.– mr president, i would like to thank the rapporteur for his work, and it is regrettable that i will vote against the novel foods legislation. the report that came from the environment, public health and food safety committee was good, but while this legislation is an improvement on the council’s position, it still fails to address key concerns with the legislating of novel foods. it is imperative that the precautionary principle is front and centre in nanotechnology. we already know that these particles take on different characteristics to their bulk counterparts. there may well be benefits to the technology, but we cannot simply railroad through legislation without developing a fit-for-purpose safety risk assessment. we must have longitudinal studies on the impact of this technology on the environment and human health. i also find it worrying that if efsa requires or requests more information from industry as part of an application and they fail to provide it, this does not warrant the automatic halting of the procedure. we are sending out a signal to industry that withholding information is ok. surely if industries are confident in their product they would make all information available. furthermore, giving industry the responsibility of deciding whether a food is novel is also troubling. who will police this, and with what resources? consumer protection must always come first, and i do not believe that this legislation does that.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which contained a number of important provisions. specifically, it highlighted that the european union is currently facing a number of serious emergencies, notably the unprecedented migration and refugee crisis. this report called for financial resources to be deployed in the eu budget, in order to match the political challenges and therefore enable the eu to deliver and effectively respond to these crises, as a matter of utmost urgency and priority. whilst of course the refugee and migration crisis cannot be solved by financial resources alone, in these extraordinary times, extraordinary measures are required and a strong political commitment is needed to secure fresh appropriations for this purpose. it was for these reasons, amongst others, that i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which contained a number of important provisions. specifically, it highlighted that the european union is currently facing a number of serious emergencies, notably the unprecedented migration and refugee crisis. this report called for financial resources to be deployed in the eu budget, in order to match the political challenges and therefore enable the eu to deliver and effectively respond to these crises, as a matter of utmost urgency and priority. whilst of course the refugee and migration crisis cannot be solved by financial resources alone, in these extraordinary times, extraordinary measures are required and a strong political commitment is needed to secure fresh appropriations for this purpose. it was for these reasons, amongst others, that i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ i was pleased to see in the eu’s draft general budget 2016 measures which prioritise growth and jobs such as restoring the original levels of horizon 2020 and connecting europe facility before the cuts related to efsi and crucially the continuation of the youth employment initiative which reverts to the original annual instalment format for 2016 following the frontloading of payments for 2014 and 2015 with a commitment of almost eur 500 million. i was also very pleased that a proposal for a pilot project, regarding the reduction of youth unemployment and the setup of co-operatives as a measure to enhance working opportunities in the eu from myself and alde colleagues was approved. the main objective is to contribute to reducing youth unemployment by establishing best practice in the area of worker co-operatives for the whole of europe. worker co-operatives act as an economically feasible way to start entrepreneurship, and due to their communality as well as shared opportunities and obligations, they are a low risk way for participants to both work and own part of the company simultaneously.
in writing. – i voted in favour of this report which contained a number of important provisions. specifically, it highlighted that the european union is currently facing a number of serious emergencies, notably the unprecedented migration and refugee crisis. this report called for financial resources to be deployed in the eu budget, in order to match the political challenges and therefore enable the eu to deliver and effectively respond to these crises, as a matter of utmost urgency and priority. whilst of course the refugee and migration crisis cannot be solved by financial resources alone, in these extraordinary times, extraordinary measures are required and a strong political commitment is needed to secure fresh appropriations for this purpose. it was for these reasons, amongst others, that i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which contained a number of important provisions. specifically, it highlighted that the european union is currently facing a number of serious emergencies, notably the unprecedented migration and refugee crisis. this report called for financial resources to be deployed in the eu budget, in order to match the political challenges and therefore enable the eu to deliver and effectively respond to these crises, as a matter of utmost urgency and priority. whilst of course the refugee and migration crisis cannot be solved by financial resources alone, in these extraordinary times, extraordinary measures are required and a strong political commitment is needed to secure fresh appropriations for this purpose. it was for these reasons, amongst others, that i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ i abstained because i feel the report could have gone further.
in writing. ‒ i supported this report as it will put in place a sound package of budgetary measures for 2016.
in writing. ‒ i supported the 2016 budget which sets outs the parliament’s main priorities for the coming year: more resources to tackle the migration crisis, restoring cuts to the horizon 2020 programme and connecting europe facility, and continuing the youth employment initiative. i did not support amendment 22 as there are no coupled payments for bullfighting within the cap.
in writing. ‒ this report called for a doubling of the current number of judges in the eu general court from 28 now to 56 in 2022. whilst in principle this appears inoffensive, there are budgetary issues to take into account and the proposal represents an unacceptable increase in the budget at a time when the eu is forcing member states to apply harsh austerity policies. it was for this reason that i voted against the report.
in writing. ‒ this report called for a doubling of the current number of judges in the eu general court from 28 now to 56 in 2022. whilst in principle this appears inoffensive, there are budgetary issues to take into account and the proposal represents an unacceptable increase in the budget at a time when the eu is forcing member states to apply harsh austerity policies. it was for this reason that i voted against the report.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the report because transparency has not been guaranteed.
in writing. ‒ i did not support the agreement between the council and the parliament to reform the general court by multiplying by two the current number of judges. i believe that reform of the court is necessary due to its increasingly heavy case burden and the ever-increasing duration of proceedings, as outlined by the general court in its original request when it sought an increase of just 12 judges. due to the member states’ indecision and wrangling over the nationalities of judges we now have an increase of an additional 28 judges (including seven from the merger with the civil service tribunal) without any assessment of whether such a high number can be justified. making such a decision on the basis of member state interests rather than the actual requirements of the court is irresponsible and undermines the credibility of eu institutions in the eyes of citizens.
in writing. ‒ i decided to support this report as it will increase the number of judges which will help to cope with the increasing number of cases at the court. i am also in agreement that the selection process should be based on merit and there should be no selection system based on nationality.
in writing. ‒ i supported the increase in the number of judges by 28 to cope with the increasing number of cases at the court. this increase will be phased in over the next three years.
in writing. ‒ this report called for a doubling of the current number of judges in the eu general court from 28 now to 56 in 2022. whilst in principle this appears inoffensive, there are budgetary issues to take into account and the proposal represents an unacceptable increase in the budget at a time when the eu is forcing member states to apply harsh austerity policies. it was for this reason that i voted against the report.
in writing. ‒ the legislative resolution on the general fisheries commission for the mediterranean (gfcm) will give a green light to the council position at first reading, without making any changes. some recommendations from the gfcm have been taken over in part by the council. they concern the environmental protection of red coral, and tackling incidental catches of seabirds, sharks and seals. the restrictions remain in place on paper, but the council has demanded that member states themselves can grant derogations to their fishermen. remotely operated underwater vehicles (rovs) will be prohibited from harvesting red coral, environmental protection will be stepped up for certain species, and member states will be at liberty to grant derogations for fishermen. while i support the aforementioned proposals, approval of the council position had already been given by the committee on fisheries, and consequently the plenary did not vote on this matter.
in writing. ‒ the legislative resolution on the general fisheries commission for the mediterranean (gfcm) will give a green light to the council position at first reading, without making any changes. some recommendations from the gfcm have been taken over in part by the council. they concern the environmental protection of red coral, and tackling incidental catches of seabirds, sharks and seals. the restrictions remain in place on paper, but the council has demanded that member states themselves can grant derogations to their fishermen. remotely operated underwater vehicles (rovs) will be prohibited from harvesting red coral, environmental protection will be stepped up for certain species, and member states will be at liberty to grant derogations for fishermen. while i support the aforementioned proposals, approval of the council position had already been given by the committee on fisheries, and consequently the plenary did not vote on this matter.
in writing. ‒ i chose to support this report as it promotes responsible conservation measures in regard to the seas and its inhabitants. the report aims to ensure the mitigation of incidental catches of seabirds, sea turtles, monk seals and cetaceans in fishing activities and also ensures a high level of protection from fishing activities with regard to sharks and rays, and in particular to the shark and ray species listed as endangered or threatened. it also helps assist in the sustainable exploitation of red coral and the sustainable development of small pelagic stocks in the adriatic sea.
in writing. ‒ the legislative resolution on the general fisheries commission for the mediterranean (gfcm) will give a green light to the council position at first reading, without making any changes. some recommendations from the gfcm have been taken over in part by the council. they concern the environmental protection of red coral, and tackling incidental catches of seabirds, sharks and seals. the restrictions remain in place on paper, but the council has demanded that member states themselves can grant derogations to their fishermen. remotely operated underwater vehicles (rovs) will be prohibited from harvesting red coral, environmental protection will be stepped up for certain species, and member states will be at liberty to grant derogations for fishermen. while i support the aforementioned proposals, approval of the council position had already been given by the committee on fisheries, and consequently the plenary did not vote on this matter.
in writing. ‒ i voted to reject the commission’s proposal on genetically modified food and feed. i also voted in favour of asking the commission to submit a new proposal. i felt that the proposal produced by the commission this time around did not legitimately address the concerns surrounding this topic, not least its impact on and implications for food sovereignty. such a sensitive proposal, seeking to combine gm food and feed, requires a full impact assessment. any approval system within the eu would need to be based on an assessment of the impact on conventional and organic farmers, animal and human health as well as the environment. provision for such an assessment was lacking in this case. for these reasons i felt it necessary to ask the commission to come up with another proposal.
in writing. ‒ today, i was joined by an overwhelming majority of fellow meps in rejecting a proposal from the commission to reform this gmo authorisation process. the systems currently in place to open or close the door to genetically modified food and feed in eu markets are not appropriate and need tightening. the commission was tempting us with what could be termed a dubious legal offer to allow member states to ban eu-approved gmos, while ignoring serious flaws with the approval system in the first place. almost 60% of eu consumers have serious concerns about the safety and the long-term implications of genetically modified organisms. we must take these concerns very seriously and it makes sense to allow eu countries to ban gm feed imports. i do not think we should sacrifice this freedom to the integrity of the single market. however, we must make sure that this possibility is solid enough to withstand a legal challenge invoking breaches of eu or world trade organisation rules. i am firmly of the view that we should have a moratorium and halt all gmo approval procedures until we have a serious review of the authorisation system itself.
in writing. ‒ i voted against as the commission proposals are unrealistic and unworkable.
in writing. ‒ i chose not to support this report on the practical grounds that the proposal would be almost impossible to implement because border controls no longer exist within the eu agricultural sector and would therefore reverse the economic achievements of the european customs union and the single market. today the eu remains highly dependent on gm imports to feed livestock, where 75% of its animal feed and over 90% of compound feed imports contains gmo materials. to ban such imports would severely endanger livestock production within the eu.
in writing. ‒ i rejected the commission proposal, as it could have negatively impacted on the eu livestock sector which requires the importation of gm protein for feed. the ban provided for in this proposal would also have the potential to break up the single market and result in distortion of competition between member states.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report which deals with novel food (food not consumed in the eu before 1997) and cloning. i was not happy with the outcome of the negotiations on these issues. the issue of cloning was not adequately addressed as descendants of cloned animals were not covered. on food safety, the rules were also not clear enough, in that, on nanomaterials, controls by the european food safety authority (efsa) were limited to requests by the commission. furthermore, responsibility for judging whether a substance is a novel food or not, and thereby subject to this regulation, is left in the hands of operators: this does not provide sufficient consumer protection.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the proposal as i believe consumers are not protected by the precautionary principle.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this new regulation that updates an outdated procedure for novel food applications which became law in 1997. the proposal ensures food safety, protects public health and secures the functioning of the internal market for food, while supporting innovation in the food sector. it will streamline the authorisation procedure through centralisation at union level, while improving efficiency and transparency. the proposal also makes it easier for traditional foods from countries outside the european union to enter the eu market.
in writing. ‒ i was in favour of this report in order to help protect public health. new foods or food ingredients (‘novel foods’) require safety assessment and authorisation before they can be placed on the eu market. the current authorisation process covering novel foods is seen by the food industry as complex, expensive and time- consuming. in addition, stakeholders agree that updating the current novel foods regulation is urgently needed to reflect scientific and technological advances. products should obviously not pose a risk to human health but in addition they should also not pose a risk to animal welfare or to the environment.
in writing. ‒ i supported this report as it updates legislation which has been in place since 1997. the report aims to improve access for novel foods to the eu market, while maintaining a high level of consumer protection. it updates the categories of food which constitute novel foods and also provides for the introduction of a centralised eu authorisation system in order to enable safe, innovative foods to reach the eu market faster.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which sets the emission targets for certain atmospheric pollutants, including sulphur dioxide, nitrogen oxides and ammonia, until 2030. the revised directive on the reduction of national emissions puts controls on different types of air pollution in each member state. its goal is to cut the number of premature deaths caused by air pollution – estimated as 400 000 a year in the eu – by half by 2030. when voting on the proposed amendments, i bore in mind targets that could be realistically achieved by ireland.
in writing. ‒ i welcome the outcome of today’s vote to set stricter air pollutant emissions rules and ceilings, which member state governments are bound to meet by 2030, with interim targets for 2025. we want to control a suite of toxic pollutants that accounts for over half a million premature deaths throughout europe. in ireland alone, there are over three thousand premature deaths annually, by an taisce’s estimates. beyond the human cost, this represents a great loss to the union in healthcare and social expenditure and productivity, and more than justifies restrictions that will spur innovation and cleaner industrial solutions. some calculate the loss to be just short of a trillion euro, eu-wide. although cattle got off the hook for their belching, we have included under the rules ammonia and methane, mostly arising from agricultural use, given the vast emissions coming from this sector. ammonia from agricultural sources is a surprisingly significant killer. it is quite regrettable; however, that fine gael’s parliamentary party in europe chose to kill off the inclusion of mercury – which is churned out in dozens of tons every year – calling for a lengthy impact assessment instead. coal pollution seems to have blinded many policymakers to the incontrovertible scientific evidence about this dangerous neurotoxin.
in writing. ‒ this proposal repeals and replaces the current union regime on the annual capping of national emissions of air pollutants, as defined in directive 2001/81/ec. it ensures that the national emission ceilings (necs) set in directive 2001/81/ec for 2010 onwards, for so2, nox, nmvoc and nh3, shall apply until 2020, and it establishes new nec reduction commitments applicable from 2020 and 2030 for so2, nox, nmvoc, nh3, fine particulate matter and methane, as well as intermediate emission levels for 2025 applicable to the same pollutants. while we have to face up to our responsibilities in this area, as an agriculture-based economy, this could entail disproportionate costs for the sector. research work on mitigating methane emissions through changes in the diet of animals is in its early stages: this approach could offer solutions as a part of a wider strategy which must be in place to assist the agricultural sector meet necessary targets in advance of ceilings being set.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the rapporteur’s proposal to take this file to trilogue negotiations because i believe that parliament has come up with a good position with realistic targets that will reduce air pollution.
in writing. ‒ i was in favour of this report because the eci is an important instrument of participatory democracy in the european union. as a result of this measure, one million eu citizens residing in at least one quarter of the member states can invite the commission to submit a proposal for a legal act which they consider to be required in order to implement the eu treaties. this is a vital tool which encourages civic participation within the european union.
in writing. ‒ this report proposes an eu strategy for the adriatic and ionian region. in doing so, it describes the special characteristics of the adriatic-ionian macro-region and the difficulties and opportunities that it faces, and calls for specific action to be taken. however, the strategy put forward is based on the ‘three nos’ principle – no new legislation, no new institutions, no new funding. the strategy can therefore use only the already existing eu financial resources and tools, and funding in this report is placed in the context of the europe 2020 strategy with the strict conditions that entails. there are a number of other concerns with the report, such as support for contentious major projects, and a call to non-eu states to accelerate the implementation of sectoral acquis, such as the water framework directive, as a condition of accession to the eu. therefore, while there are positive aspects to the report, i abstained on this motion.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour, as wording on immigration was added to the text.
in writing. ‒ i chose to support this report because the region plays a key role in strengthening geographical continuity in europe. the region’s turbulent past is marked by events which had devastating and long-lasting effects on development and cooperation between the countries. more recently, the economic crisis has had a major impact on the region. unemployment and indebtedness are reaching unprecedented heights. the economic recovery and growth in the ailing economies are hampered by falling investments, both public and private.
in writing. – this report proposes an eu strategy for the adriatic and ionian region. in doing so, it describes the special characteristics of the adriatic-ionian macro-region and the difficulties and opportunities that it faces, and calls for specific action to be taken. however, the strategy put forward is based on the ‘three nos’ principle – no new legislation, no new institutions, no new funding. the strategy can therefore use only the already existing eu financial resources and tools, and funding in this report is placed in the context of the europe 2020 strategy with the strict conditions that entails. there are a number of other concerns with the report, such as support for contentious major projects, and a call to non-eu states to accelerate the implementation of sectoral acquis, such as the water framework directive, as a condition of accession to the eu. therefore, while there are positive aspects to the report, i abstained on this motion.
in writing. ‒ this is the first european parliament report on the mid-term review of the europe 2020 strategy, focusing on the cohesion policy dimension of the strategy. it examines the progress already achieved, the scope of the review and the challenges to be addressed from a cohesion policy perspective. the report makes some criticism of the results of the europe 2020 strategy to date and as well as several positive references. however, cohesion policy is presented as a policy at the service of europe 2020 and it connects cohesion policy with the eu economic governance framework and its implementation mechanism, the ‘european semester’. moreover, the report links the allocation and effectiveness of structural and investment to ‘sound economic governance’ – so-called ‘macro-economic conditionalities’ – by the member states, and therefore to austerity politics. i therefore abstained on this report.
in writing. ‒ this is the first european parliament report on the mid-term review of the europe 2020 strategy, focusing on the cohesion policy dimension of the strategy. it examines the progress already achieved, the scope of the review and the challenges to be addressed from a cohesion policy perspective. the report makes some criticism of the results of the europe 2020 strategy to date and as well as several positive references. however, cohesion policy is presented as a policy at the service of europe 2020 and it connects cohesion policy with the eu economic governance framework and its implementation mechanism, the ‘european semester’. moreover, the report links the allocation and effectiveness of structural and investment to ‘sound economic governance’ – so-called ‘macro-economic conditionalities’ – by the member states, and therefore to austerity politics. i therefore abstained on this report.
in writing. ‒ i abstained because of the macroeconomic conditionalities contained within the report.
in writing. ‒ i decided to support this report due to the fact that cohesion policy, as the main eu investment instrument and as an expression of european solidarity, is closely aligned with the objectives of smart, sustainable and inclusive growth set out in the europe 2020 strategy. it should be noted that after the 2008 crisis, due to the lack of national public funding, cohesion policy became the only financial resource for growth policy in some member states or regions. this shows that, due to the cohesion policy, some investments continued, despite a huge decrease in public funding. it confirms the long term importance of this policy and its resistance to different external economic factors.
in writing. – this is the first european parliament report on the mid-term review of the europe 2020 strategy, focusing on the cohesion policy dimension of the strategy. it examines the progress already achieved, the scope of the review and the challenges to be addressed from a cohesion policy perspective. the report makes some criticism of the results of the europe 2020 strategy to date and as well as several positive references. however, cohesion policy is presented as a policy at the service of europe 2020 and it connects cohesion policy with the eu economic governance framework and its implementation mechanism, the ‘european semester’. moreover, the report links the allocation and effectiveness of structural and investment to ‘sound economic governance’ – so-called ‘macro-economic conditionalities’ – by the member states, and therefore to austerity politics. i therefore abstained on this report.
in writing. ‒ article 23 of the common provision regulations is a destructive mechanism that further entrenches austerity by linking cohesion funding to ‘sound economic governance’ – also known as ‘macro-economic conditionalities’. it allows funding programmes at a local or regional level to be suspended or ‘reprogrammed’ because of factors outside the control of those affected, such as national budget deficits. this would cause significant harm, particularly to vulnerable regions and member states still suffering from the economic and social crisis. while the report is mildly critical and recommends some safeguards, it ultimately accepts the premise of ‘sound economic governance’ in the context of cohesion funding. for this reason, my colleague martina anderson tabled an alternative resolution on behalf of the gue/ngl group calling for the mechanism not to be used and for its review, which unfortunately did not succeed. i also voted for a specific amendment, tabled by more than 76 meps, calling for the decoupling of this important funding from the calculation of national deficits. this amendment was also unsuccessful. as the report therefore endorses - if critically - a mechanism that will impose austerity policies on local and regional communities, i voted against the report.
in writing. ‒ article 23 of the common provision regulations is a destructive mechanism that further entrenches austerity by linking cohesion funding to ‘sound economic governance’ – also known as ‘macro-economic conditionalities’. it allows funding programmes at a local or regional level to be suspended or ‘reprogrammed’ because of factors outside the control of those affected, such as national budget deficits. this would cause significant harm, particularly to vulnerable regions and member states still suffering from the economic and social crisis. while the report is mildly critical and recommends some safeguards, it ultimately accepts the premise of ‘sound economic governance’ in the context of cohesion funding. for this reason, my colleague martina anderson tabled an alternative resolution on behalf of the gue/ngl group calling for the mechanism not to be used and for its review, which unfortunately did not succeed. i also voted for a specific amendment, tabled by more than 76 meps, calling for the decoupling of this important funding from the calculation of national deficits. this amendment was also unsuccessful. as the report therefore endorses - if critically - a mechanism that will impose austerity policies on local and regional communities, i voted against the report.
in writing. ‒ i chose to support this report as it successfully manages to clarify several elements of the application of the first strand of article 23 and intends to ensure that the provisions are applied in a justified and balanced manner. while recognising the need for effective economic governance, such mechanisms should not hinder the pursuit of the broader goals of economic, social and territorial cohesion.
in writing. ‒ article 23 of the common provision regulations is a destructive mechanism that further entrenches austerity by linking cohesion funding to ‘sound economic governance’ – also known as ‘macro-economic conditionalities’. it allows funding programmes at a local or regional level to be suspended or ‘reprogrammed’ because of factors outside the control of those affected, such as national budget deficits. this would cause significant harm, particularly to vulnerable regions and member states still suffering from the economic and social crisis. while the report is mildly critical and recommends some safeguards, it ultimately accepts the premise of ‘sound economic governance’ in the context of cohesion funding. for this reason, my colleague martina anderson tabled an alternative resolution on behalf of the gue/ngl group calling for the mechanism not to be used and for its review, which unfortunately did not succeed. i also voted for a specific amendment, tabled by more than 76 meps, calling for the decoupling of this important funding from the calculation of national deficits. this amendment was also unsuccessful. as the report therefore endorses - if critically - a mechanism that will impose austerity policies on local and regional communities, i voted against the report.
mr president, the european semester has become a by—term for an economic platform that has undermined sovereignty, undermined democracy, and has absolutely eroded public confidence in the european institutions. but, above all, it is a failed economic platform. it is interesting to hear today some meps crying crocodile tears over the fact that parliament has been denied legislative powers in the european semester when this house has conspired to deny the democratic rights of citizens to determine the economic direction of their countries. the european semester is simply reinforcing a set of policies that have entrenched the democratic deficit and disillusioned citizens even further. it is a set of policies that have created unequal societies and has failed to address the underlying problems of boom and bust economics that have beset countries like ireland. the european semester and the document that we are discussing today are a failed economic policy. we need to accept what our citizens already accept: that it is time for a new direction for european economics and european politics.
mr president, i was here in the last mandate when we were making efforts to grapple with the unprecedented recession which we have had, particularly in my own country. month after month, commissioner barnier in particular has been putting forward proposals. many criticised him, but i think now they are seen to be pretty effective and sensible, and now we are concluding with the banking union, etc. but the european semester is a very important aspect of it, because it means that there will be outside guidance rather than supervision of the broad targets in budgets. with elections coming up, there is always a tendency for parties – be they in government or out of government – to try to buy the electorate, and this is not good in the long-term. aspects like this semester are good in the overall term, and also the exchange of best practices, something that has been mentioned, is obviously good for the member states and creates a sense of the union as well.
madam president, mr schmit on behalf of the council spoke in very robust and impassioned terms about the long-term unemployed. much of what he said makes sense: the difficulties with qualifications, skills, older people getting a job and the need for lifelong learning. but i think his portrayal was somewhat one-dimensional: as well as those who want to work there are also those amongst the long-term unemployed who do not want work and others who cannot work. regarding those who do not want to work – my own prime minister enda kenny referred to that subject at the epp meeting in madrid last week and he said that we have to make work pay because in too many instances people can actually earn more by not working than by working, and that makes no sense. of course, for those who cannot work, often because of disability or circumstances, we have to look at innovative ways, maybe part-time work etc., to give them the opportunity to get self-worth and self-esteem. i do not think that we should forget those people either among the long-term unemployed.
mr president, there is nothing wrong with the 2020 targets. in fact, in the general sense, we are not doing too badly in trying to reach them, especially in the areas of employment, r&d, greenhouse gas emissions and education. i think they are all reachable by 2020. two areas where we are not doing too well, and some have referred to this, are, firstly, poverty and social exclusion – that certainly has to be looked at and we have to redouble our efforts to reach our targets in that area – and, secondly, an area of importance to me particularly, energy efficiency. this is a win—win. but we are not doing enough, particularly in the area of housing. i think we need to incentivise customers, householders, young people and, of course, developers to build energy-efficient houses. that is a win-win for everybody in the long term. one other target which i think we should add – as the commission was talking about reducing bureaucracy and red tape – is a target to reduce it by 20% by 2020. that would also be a very good idea.
i'm sorry, but i'm afraid i've been put in the last position to do this. we all know how important it is to be safe and to be loved. it is in the figures of our minds that we now see that everyone could have found a small and medium-sized factory in another country, and that would have ended the european famine. frequently, they employ 90% of the workforce and contribute 30% of their gdp. i have more problems here. and they were going to be killed and they were going to be economically driven. i saw it, especially when i was in a meeting and i was going to the street; i was talking to the people because i had customers and i had money. things are getting better now, but they're not going to get better. i'm not giving you money, but i have my own problems with it. i am therefore pleased to welcome the new instruments being brought into force by the commission, in particular the cmu, cosme and the sea. there is no need for new instruments to be introduced if smes are not informed. i saw you without your mini-go and my own. therefore, it is good to have the tools to ensure that smes have the information they need.
in writing.– the commission’s statement on access to finance for smes was sorely lacking in fairness, vision and ambition. there was no real attempt to assist small and medium sized enterprises (smes) in any meaningful way. small and medium sized enterprises (smes) are the life blood of the irish economy. smes are one of the main employers and are at the heart of communities across europe. therefore, what is required are policies that will enable smes to grow, create local employment and as a result circulate money into our economy. europe can not only provide practical financial assistance to companies, but it can also enable member states to capitalise on the positive aspects which membership of the european union brings. it is quite clear that europe does provide opportunities to open up lucrative export markets for our sme sector. huge opportunities exist in europe to support our sme sector. however, these businesses need support, encouragement and investment to allow them to continue to grow. this will only happen with the necessary commitment, ambition and political will. unfortunately, none of these qualities were present in the commission’s statement.
madam president, from my own observations i have become more and more against the change of time in recent years, because i see that it brings in the winter overnight and stops the onset of spring by at least a month. but coming in here this morning, i am delighted to hear cases being put forward by my colleagues and the impact it actually has on citizens and on agriculture, costs and energy. mr becker referred to 48% more accidents and disturbed sleep patterns for children. surely the case is clear, and all it takes is for a directive from the commission. it would cost nothing, and i am quite sure citizens would be delighted. once again we would be able to show citizens that we can act in their interest. if russia did it, why can we not do it? or are we afraid to say maybe that russia was right and we were too slow to follow them? in this instance, they were right and we should introduce to change as soon as possible because we do not want winter coming in overnight anymore and we want spring to come in its natural order.
madam president, i would like to thank the commissioner for being here and i would like to thank the rapporteur for her report. tourism is extremely important, as we all know, particularly for small and medium-sized enterprises in ireland, the country i come from. i would like to address the vat issue, which has been mentioned by many speakers. the reduction in vat from 13.5% to 9% has been singularly successful in increasing employment and in boosting tourist numbers. it has been acknowledged by hotel federations, restaurant associations and others in the hospitality sector as directly boosting employment, and it is one of the success stories. like my greek colleague, we came to an agreement with the troika: the government addressed this question with them, and they were allowed to reduce vat provided they demonstrated that the funding could be provided from elsewhere. it resulted in a tax on pensions, which was not very popular at the time. however, three to four years later, the very successful outcome in terms of employment opportunities in the sector has more than outweighed the negative impact at the time. so i would say to the commissioner, yes, reduction of vat rates can be very successful in this extremely important sector, particularly for rural areas and islands, where tourism is so important.
mr president, i am very much in favour of these proposals and obviously i supported them. i think we have now – moving away from the crisis – looked at some of the malpractices that went on over many years, in particular in relation to tax evasion and tax avoidance, and we are moving towards correcting the loopholes. i welcome that, and the mandatory exchange of information will make it much more difficult for businesses to avoid tax – something which happened far too frequently in the past and which was very unfair to businesses and to individuals who were paying their tax. i am glad to say that my own country, ireland, was one of the early movers in relation to international initiatives on the automatic exchange of tax information, being the fourth country in the world to sign a foreign account tax compliance act (fatca) agreement with the united states, which it did during ireland’s presidency of the european council.
the president voted in favour of this report and therefore it is an important budget and we have a lot of work to do and a lot of things to do. it is important that everyone has a budget for the future, that we have a budget for the union, but we are relying on oil to give us a budget for everything. so i think we should look again at the money we provide ourselves, especially our own resources, to support them. we have started to legislate the ftt, but we should look again at how to get money from the union rather than relying on the state. i would like to know more about this; it is a very important subject and i was listening to my colleagues and friends, and i would like to ask mr fernandes, especially in the groups in the parliament, to talk about it and to ask for more information from other people who are working on this subject.
mr president, i attended the debate here in parliament on this topic and i found it very enlightening. i must say that the rapporteur, mr la via, gave a good explanation of what was involved. i did not get to speak, but i am getting to speak now. i supported my group in the various votes. it is a difficult topic. it is actually not easy to be 100% certain that you are in favour of or against gmos, but certainly one or two points occurred which i found interesting, namely that we are only producing 30% of our protein here in europe. we have to import a lot of it to feed our livestock, and much of it comes from gmos. if we take a decision not to have it, what is going to happen to the feedstock and what is going to happen to the competitiveness of europe? but in the long term, citizens need reassurance, and for that we need absolutely independent, reliable research, especially in relation to health issues regarding gmos.
mr president, as you mention, mr nicholson was chosen as the rapporteur on this. he is a colleague of mine from ireland and he is a sound, sensible guy, and when he proposes something he would not do so lightly. so, i had no problem in supporting this report. essentially, it aims to ensure there is a proper evaluation and authorisation procedure, via a fully harmonised process, to protect the health of european citizens. we did not have many of these foods or food ingredients in the european union prior to may 1997 but now, of course, we have many of them coming into europe and they are innovative, they are newly developed and sometimes they are foods that are not used in europe but are traditionally used in other countries. for these reasons it is important that we have proper regulation, and this regulation updates the categories of food which fall within the definition of novel foods and provides for the implementation of a centralised eu authorisation system to protect eu citizens.
mr president, during the campaign for the lisbon treaty to be passed by referendum in my country, i campaigned hard for a ‘yes’ vote. one of the planks of the campaign was that the citizens’ initiative would bring citizens closer to the european institutions and that they would be able to influence legislation, etc. lo and behold, three years on, we have had 51 initiatives, but only three have been acted on! this is obviously not good enough. one of the problems – as explained to us by first vice—president timmermans – is that the treaty does not allow the institutions to act in certain ways. but that is not good enough: it is time that we really looked at this and ensured that, if we have a citizens’ initiative system, then before people engage in getting a million signatures they should be told whether their initiative is actually admissible or not. the same point has been made by my colleague ms morvai in relation to the committee on petitions – because people build up their hopes, and then they are not able to follow through.
mr president, i want to agree with my colleague. particularly in an exceptional week like this, where we had no explanations of vote yesterday and we had to cram three days’ explanation of votes into less than an hour, it is not good enough. it is not your fault, mr president. it is a decision taken by the bureau, but it has to be reflected on. when meps are willing to stay here they should be given the opportunity to do so, especially as, normally, we would be here until 17.00 on a thursday and it was decided we should finish at 13.30, even though meps wanted to stay and give their explanation of the votes. i know one can do it in writing, but if we were all going to do it in writing we could go home when the votes are over. it is not satisfactory, it is not democratic and it is certainly not fair to meps that this is the decision which has been taken. it has nothing to do with you, mr president – you are only implementing what has been decided – but we would appreciate it if you would take this back to the bureau. certainly, in exceptional circumstances, it should be changed. we have a position today where we had votes on seven or eight issues and there is not even an opportunity for one person to give an explanation on today’s votes.
in writing. ‒ this file sought to enhance the remit of cepol with a focus on strategic objectives, not exclusively training. the file also sought to enhance the autonomous nature of cepol and increase its funding. i, therefore, voted against this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report. the file seeks to enhance the remit of cepol with a focus on strategic objectives, not exclusively training. the file also seeks to enhance the autonomous nature of cepol and increase its funding. however, i co-signed an amendment which was tabled by my group gue/ngl to bring the cepol seat back to the hague.
in writing. ‒ i voted against as i believe it is just a geopolitical move to boost hungary’s image after the recent scandals.
in writing. ‒ i support this report because the eu’s internal security needs are constantly evolving, resulting in increasing demands on police forces and law-enforcement officers. the right skills will be critical to meeting future challenges and safeguarding the security of our citizens. in order to counter the growing threat of transnational and organised crime, effective and smooth cross-border cooperation among all relevant national law-enforcement authorities is crucial. to foster and sustain this kind of cross-border cooperation and to enhance mutual trust, proper training of law-enforcement officers is paramount.
in writing. – i voted against this report. the file seeks to enhance the remit of cepol with a focus on strategic objectives, not exclusively training. the file also seeks to enhance the autonomous nature of cepol and increase its funding.
in writing. ‒ this report was concerned with securities financing in relation to the lending of securities (e.g. stocks, bonds, asset-backed securities etc.) in return for cash. typical transactions are repos, reverse repos, buy-sell back transactions or sell-buyback transactions and collateral swaps, which are all used by most banks in order to increase liquidity in the market. these financial instruments pose a major threat to financial stability. in the wake of the financial crisis, the eu has to some extent tried to reform the regular banking sector. as a result of the ‘tougher’ regulation of banks, it is safe to assume that banks will try to shift their financial activities such as securities financing transactions (sfts) to the shadow banking sector, as it is basically non-regulated (shadow banks are credit institutions like lehman brothers that operate outside the regular banking sector). this regulation seeks to prevent a migration to shadow banking by increasing transparency and reporting on sfts outside the normal banking sector.
in writing. ‒ i voted against as not enough transparency guaranteed.
in writing. ‒ i supported this report as it aims to enhance financial stability in the eu by increasing the transparency of certain market activities, such as securities financing transactions (sfts), re-hypothecation and other financing structures having an equivalent economic effect to sfts. the global financial crisis highlighted the need to improve transparency and monitoring, not only in the traditional banking sector but also in areas where non-bank credit activities take place, so-called ‘shadow banking’.
in writing. – this report was concerned with securities financing in the lending of securities (e.g. stocks, bonds, asset-backed securities etc.) in return for cash. typical transactions are repos, reverse repos, buy-sell back transactions or sell-buy back transactions and collateral swaps which are all used by most banks in order to increase liquidity in the market. these financial instruments pose a major risk to financial stability. in the wake of the financial crisis, the eu has to some extent tried to reform the regular banking sector. as a result of the ‘tougher’ regulation of banks, it is safe to assume that banks will try to shift their financial activities such as sfts to the shadow banking sector as it is basically non-regulated (shadow banks are credit institutions like lehman brothers that operate outside the regular banking sector). as such, this regulation seeks to prevent a migration to shadow banking by increasing transparency and reporting on sfts outside the normal banking sector.
in writing. ‒ i am glad that the motion on eu citizens’ fundamental rights in relation to electronic mass surveillance passed, albeit by a very narrow majority. when it comes to protecting citizens who have come forward to reveal breaches of civil liberties performed by governments, a lot more needs to be done. if whistle-blowers are not protected we are effectively persecuting citizens who did not hold back information on wrongdoing, in the public interest. we understand that governments are increasing powers within their security and intelligence bodies in order to keep us safe from terrorist attacks; however, we must hold governments into account when our right to privacy is arbitrarily breached. given that the ecj invalidated the safe harbour agreement, parliament’s position is strengthened in pushing for a stronger framework to protect eu citizens’ rights. thankfully, the ‘snowden effect’ has resulted in a win for privacy advocates. this month, in ireland, the high court ruled that the data protection commissioner should examine whether to suspend transfer of facebook users’ data from the eu to the us.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour as i believe this issue must be dealt with in a robust manner.
in writing. ‒ i chose not to support this resolution as it attempts to link data protection to other legal instruments which, in reality, do not concern data protection at all.
in writing. ‒ i did not support this motion for a resolution as it failed to focus on the main issue at hand which is that of mass surveillance of eu citizens. the eu should be safe for all citizens. security and counter-terrorism are a top priority.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the so called ‘revamped european semester’ which contained a number of very worrying provisions. it offers absolutely no way out of the prevailing austerity narrative and in fact this report sets out to ‘institutionalise austerity’ as it proposes the intensification of austerity policies. the immediate priorities are on boosting competitiveness and structural convergence, imposing fiscal policies and gradually making the convergence process ever more binding and therefore impacting directly on member states ability to implement their own legislation. in effect this report aims to deny citizens any real political choices when electing their governments. the whole aim is to bind member states to essential economic and fiscal policies at an eu level. it should be patently clear that european economic governance cannot override democratic choices at the national level.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the so called ‘revamped european semester’ which contained a number of very worrying provisions. it offers absolutely no way out of the prevailing austerity narrative and in fact this report sets out to ‘institutionalise austerity’ as it proposes the intensification of austerity policies. the immediate priorities are on boosting competitiveness and structural convergence, imposing fiscal policies and gradually making the convergence process ever more binding and therefore impacting directly on member states ability to implement their own legislation. in effect this report aims to deny citizens any real political choices when electing their governments. the whole aim is to bind member states to essential economic and fiscal policies at an eu level. it should be patently clear that european economic governance cannot override democratic choices at the national level.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of amendment 12 because i would like to see ireland leave the eurozone. this clause would facilitate that.
in writing. ‒ i supported this report because many member states, in particular in the euro area, are faced with similar macroeconomic challenges including, most importantly, high debt ratios (both public and private), lack of competitiveness and excessively low investment. unsustainable levels of debt have a discouraging effect on investment and so a coordinated approach is therefore required in tackling these issues. the four main priorities for economic growth are: boosting investment, implementation of structural reforms in product, service and labour markets, fiscal responsibility and improving employment policy. the report stresses the importance of these growth drivers. in the context of achieving the goals set out in the europe 2020 strategy and the overall objective of making the eu globally more competitive, this should be done without weakening workers’ protection or undermining the european social model.
in writing. – i voted against the so called ‘revamped european semester’ which contained a number of very worrying provisions. it offers absolutely no way out of the prevailing austerity narrative and in fact this report sets out to ‘institutionalise austerity’ as it proposes the intensification of austerity policies. the immediate priorities are on boosting competitiveness and structural convergence, imposing fiscal policies and gradually making the convergence process ever more binding and therefore impacting directly on member states ability to implement their own legislation. in effect this report aims to deny citizens any real political choices when electing their governments. the whole aim is to bind member states to essential economic and fiscal policies at an eu level. it should be patently clear that european economic governance cannot override democratic choices at the national level.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of amendment 20 as it stresses the need to ensure the participation of social partners in the definition, planning and implementation of the proposal.
in writing. ‒ i supported this resolution on the very welcome proposal from the commission for a council recommendation on the integration of the long-term unemployed into the labour market. long-term unemployment has doubled since 2007 accounting for half of total unemployment, representing 5% of the eu’s active population, although this does vary significantly across member states. these continuing levels of long-term unemployment tend to disproportionally affect society’s most vulnerable members and jeopardise efforts to attain the europe 2020 headline targets of 75% employment of 20- to 64-year-olds and at least 20 million fewer people in, or at risk of, poverty and social exclusion. the proposal has a three pronged approach: to better measure long term unemployment by increased registration and supports; assessing the individual potential, needs and job preferences of the long-term unemployed before they reach 18 months of unemployment; and offering tailor made ‘job integration agreements’ between long-term unemployed persons and the services involved. it is important to note with such job integration agreements that the authorities must acknowledge equally their responsibilities to the unemployed person as well as vice versa and that the individual’s personal qualifications and experience should be respected.
in writing. ‒ i decided to support this motion which aims to highlight the need to reach out to the long-term unemployed, including those who are unregistered. i agree that not only do we additionally need to reach out to those who have been unemployed for 18 months or more, but it is paramount that member state policies target short-term unemployment (less than 12 months) and youth unemployment. this will fit in seamlessly with policies aimed at tackling long-term unemployment.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which is aimed at regulating the use of civil drones in europe. at present there are only national regulations with no eu or global regulations on civil use.
in writing. ‒ i decided to support this report because the rpas market poses a real opportunity to foster job creation and a source of innovation and economic growth for years to come. however the lack of harmonized regulations across europe and of validated technologies forms the main obstacle to open the rpas market to integrate rpas in european non-segregated airspace. it is vital to unlock the eu rpas market with a combination of new and existing regulatory action dealing with all the relevant issues, including the insertion of safety, security, privacy and data protection requirements within existing eu rules in these areas.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour as i think there are positive aspects.
in writing. ‒ i chose to support this report to assist in ensuring the better integration of tourism into various eu policies and also ensure that the proper application of the legislation in force realises the sector’s full competitive potential. efforts to coordinate the various policies concerned need to be increased with the aim of ensuring that interests and needs of the tourism industry are fully taken into account when formulating and implementing its policies.
in writing. ‒ this resolution recommends that the commission take steps towards developing a satellite-based global flight-tracking system to replace the current radar locations system which has a much more limited scope. this would enable the location of aircraft at all times, even in remote locations such as long-haul flights over oceans or desert areas. this technology would also be of assistance in avoiding situations such as the air france af447 and malaysia airlines mh370 tragedies, and would improve the effectiveness of search and rescue operations and investigations. the resolution also calls for a discussion at the world radiocommunication conference in november about allocating a specific radio spectrum to support this technology. i therefore voted for the resolution.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution for the development of satellite-based technology to enable global flight tracking systems. the resolution asks the commission to take steps towards developing a satellite-based global flight-tracking system to replace the current radar locations system (which has a much more limited scope). this would enable the location of aircraft at all times, even in remote locations (in this context, the resolution makes reference to the air france af447 and malaysia airlines mh370 tragedies). the resolution also calls for a discussion at the world radiocommunication conference in november about allocating a specific radio spectrum to support this technology. (as an aside, the tech suggested – ads-b – is already compulsory in australia, and widely used in north america, china, the uae and parts of europe).
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour as i believe we need to develop global flight tracking systems.
in writing. ‒ i supported this motion in favour of rapidly developing a performance-based global flight tracking system that will enable air navigation service providers to determine the position of public transport aircraft at all times, even in remote locations. i agree with the aim to increase safety by facilitating the recovery of information for the purposes of civil aviation safety investigations and improving flight recorder performance and handling.
in writing. – this resolution recommends that the commission take steps towards developing a satellite-based global flight-tracking system, to replace the current radar locations system, which has a much more limited scope. this would enable the location of aircraft at all times, even in remote locations such as long-haul flights over oceans or desert areas. this technology would also be of assistance in avoiding situations such as the air france af447 and malaysia airlines mh370 tragedies, and would improve the effectiveness of search and rescue operations and investigations. the resolution also calls for a discussion at the world radiocommunication conference in november about allocating a specific radio spectrum to support this technology. i therefore voted for the resolution
i declare resumed the session of the european parliament adjourned on thursday, 29 october 2015.
colleagues, i want to bring to your attention two very serious incidents which occurred. we want as a parliament to express our concern and sympathies to those who have been affected, so thank you for your silence. on friday, 30 october, a terrible fire broke out at a nightclub in bucharest, where up to 400 people, mostly in their teens and early twenties, had gathered to attend a concert. the death toll has risen to at least 46 people and about 100 are still in hospital, many in a serious condition. our thoughts and our sympathies are with the families and the friends of the victims. we are also very deeply distressed by the news that a russian airliner crashed in central sinai, killing 224 people, and again we offer our sympathies to the victims’ families and to the russian people.
thank you for your words.
the minutes of 29 october 2015 have been distributed. are there any comments?
thank you for your words, mr bullmann. *******(the minutes of the previous sitting were approved)*******
we will indeed request information from the president on your question. we know the invitation has been sent so we will ask for an update to answer your point. thank you for raising it.
thank you for bringing this to our attention. colleagues, i think we will express our sympathies just by listening to your fine words, and we will also pass on your message about the plenary sitting to the president and his cabinet. colleagues, with your permission i will now move on to make some announcements and bring to your attention the following: the screening of the three contending films for the 2015 lux prize has started. the three films nominated are: mediterranea; mustang; urok (the lesson). you can watch these in the lux theatre in the yehudi menuhin until 20 november or on the vod or, by request, dvd. the films are subtitled in all eu official languages. members of parliament can cast their votes until 23 november. moreover, today is a very special day, and for the first time ever one of the films competing for the lux film prize, mediterranea, will be screened simultaneously in eight cities of the european union, with the film director jonas carpignano attending the screening here in brussels.
thank you, ms costa, for the additional information for colleagues.
the final draft agenda as drawn up pursuant to rule 149 by the conference of presidents at its meeting of 29 october 2015 has been distributed.
(parliament rejected the request) president. – there is no change to our agenda and the order of business is thus established but, in agreement with the political groups, the title of the first item on the agenda has been changed to: ‘a statement by the commission on the european semester package – annual growth survey 2016. (the order of business was thus established)
the next item is the debate on the commission statement on the european semester package – annual growth survey 2016 (2015/2924(rsp)).
mr president, i wonder whether the commissioner heard the remarks of the irish taoiseach enda kenny at the ppe conference in madrid recently? i wonder, commissioner, did you hear him describe the arrival of the troika in ireland as a bloodless coup, and i wonder if you agree with him? undoubtedly, the taoiseach’s remarks were more about absolving his own government’s responsibilities of continuing the fianna fáil agenda of crippling austerity that has financially devastated irish families and, in fact, devastated our domestic economy. joined by the eu institutions, it has been an agenda that has forced the irish people, representing 1% of the eu population, into 42% of the costs of the european banking crisis. while the commission and the irish government celebrate economic growth as a vindication of their agenda, do you, commissioner, know that in ireland we have a severe crisis in our health services, for example? do you know that ireland has an unprecedented homelessness crisis? will you accept, commissioner, that the eu economic agenda that is epitomised by the european semester is a failure driven by a political ideology that has put the interests of financial markets ahead of the needs of citizens, and in fact has devastated our economies?
mr president, thank you particularly for taking all of us in the catch-the-eye. it makes us feel valued and makes it worthwhile for us to stay here for the entire debate. yesterday, the prime minister of the united kingdom, mr cameron, outlined his requests for reform within the european union. he put emphasis on one point in particular: competitiveness. he is, of course, absolutely correct because, without it, we are not going to be strong in europe, we will not have growth, we will not have jobs, and we will not have influence in the world. certainly there have been many instances in the past where we have regulated – maybe in isolation, sensibly – but it did have a very negative effect on competitiveness, and that certainly needs to stop. he is right in that regard. the other aspect is, in relation to the semester, that it is an opportunity for us to ensure there is proper discipline in budgets, etc. in the member states. for that reason, the first member state that steps out of line must be dealt with because, if they are not dealt with and they get away with it, everything will fall apart again.
mr president, commissioner bulc, i very much look forward to your aviation package next month. aviation has been very good for europe. liberalisation of our airways has been extremely good for passengers and, most importantly, for businesses, and yes, you are right, some airlines are doing well, others are not doing well at all. we have seen consolidation. we have seen the birth of new airlines that are serving our regions extremely well and, as has been mentioned by previous speakers, we speak of ryanair and easyjet that are getting to our outermost regions. but i urge you to act on issues such as the single european skies, passenger rights and slots. we need to address them – you appreciate that, i know – to improve competitiveness of european airlines. on another point, i welcome the fact that we are going to engage with airlines outside the eu such as the gulf states. i think it is important that we try to build comprehensive aviation agreements with these airlines. it is an important step, because they are not going to go away. our passengers and businesses in europe are using them now, and they will not appreciate us building a fortress around europe and being protectionist about our airlines here. we need to engage in comprehensive agreements, and i wish you well in that, and parliament will be engaging, because it is essential that we do so. we are operating in a global economy now and we cannot be inward-looking, trying to protect what we have historically. we must look forward for the benefit of our consumers and those that are doing business on a global scale.
the uachtaráin, these laws are being debated. i'm not sure i'm ready to go. so i'd like to see the moon now. firstly, unfair practices in third countries as referred to by the commissioner: obviously this is something that needs to be tackled at a global level, because our aviation industry deserves a level playing field. secondly, the carbon footprint has been referred to, and obviously that is a concern because it is huge, and the commissioner referred to having powerful regulatory tools to limit co2 emissions, but also, as one of those representing parliament at cop21 in paris, i hope that both the aviation and maritime industries can be included in a global agreement, which we hope we will be able to reach there. thirdly, the competitiveness of the airline industries in europe was referred to. ryanair is an irish airline which is highly successful, its market share is growing, its stock is generally improving and recently it promised the irish government that if it got rid of the travel tax it would increase passenger numbers by a million which it did. a huge boost to the tourist industry in ireland.
the gue/ngl group is the leader. the president, the commissioner and the commissioner shall be appointed by the president on the basis of the results of the votes. the approach to be adopted should be improved, and the common approach should be taken to support the annual budget and to support the social process and sustainable development within the framework of the treaties. the commission welcomes the efforts made by the european union to improve the efficiency of its financial management and to address the current challenges in the fight against corruption and money laundering in countries such as syria, turkey, etc., as well as in the african region. it seems that the government is investing more in the search for a solution to the problem than in the search for a solution. caithfear tosaíocht a thabhairt of the trusted joke don afraic ar bhonn daonnachta. buiséad an ae is the principal deontóir of the joke trust. it is necessary that within its competences the commission shall have a director-general responsible and that the director-general shall be responsible before the european parliament for the matters concerning the overall strategy for trust funds in the eu. the commission should report annually to the council on the annual budget, social development, economic impact and progress in the project on funding in regional trust funds. full information should be given on the laws in the country where the project is to be carried out to ensure full compliance with eu financial rules. it is important to improve financial instruments so that they are much more soluble and so that they are more effective in the eu budget. it is essential to ensure that a three-step process for the implementation of the law is in place.
madam president, recently the guardian published a report alleging that some migrant workers are being abused in the irish fishing industry and that some are being trafficked. the extent of these practices has not been determined. i have called on the irish authorities to immediately increase the number of unannounced on-the-spot inspection checks on trawlers. this will help to protect the workers. it will also help to deter further abuse and show the many honest and decent trawler owners that they are not facing competition from low-cost illegal operators. while in no way minimising the irish situation, there is evidence of similar practices elsewhere. commissioner vella has called on the irish authorities to put their house in order but, equally, the commissioner has a responsibility to ensure that all eu countries fully comply with eu law to prevent trafficking and ensure the rights of migrant workers. action is needed in ireland, but it is also needed elsewhere in the eu.
madam president, the eu is failing in its targets to reduce poverty and social exclusion, and nowhere is this more apparent than in my own country, ireland. thanks to their austerity policies, the poverty rate in ireland has doubled since 2008, and the most tragic manifestation of this is the housing and homelessness crisis. the number of homeless families in dublin shot up by 106% in the 12 months to september, and there are nearly 2 300 people in emergency accommodation in my city, the majority of whom are children. there are now 5 000 citizens in temporary shelter across the state. government policies have directly caused this crisis. they have slashed social housing budgets and instead opted for policies that favour private landlords – hardly surprising when 24 of them are landlords themselves. they have allowed rents to spiral, provided inadequate rent supplements, cut mortgage interest supplements and made it easier for banks to repossess. the irish government urgently needs to change course, and it must build social housing, tackle spiralling rent costs and rent uncertainty, and act to stop forced evictions.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report on the isa2 programme which aims to improve interoperability in online communication between the public administrations of member states. it aims to develop a more effective, simplified and user-friendly administration at state, regional and local levels of public administration. it recognises the right of states, businesses and citizens not to use these solutions. the report also seeks to ensure a high level of user privacy and data protection, and includes references to technological neutrality and net neutrality.
in writing. ‒ i was happy to support this proposal. as the current isa programme ends this year, isa2 aims to help member states modernise their administrations and provide interoperable digital services at national and european level to ensure efficient and effective cross-border interaction for citizens, businesses and european public administrations. the holistic approach employed in the report will provide added value for citizens and smes by avoiding overlaps and encouraging exchange of best practices to continuously improve services while respecting privacy and data protection rights.
in writing. ‒ i supported this report, as it increasingly enhances the potential quality of public services and creates an environment in which businesses can become more competitive and citizens can obtain greater satisfaction. this will help public administrations in europe to modernise and stand out in order to improve economic competiveness or the quality of people’s lives. it is therefore a powerful ally of the european growth and jobs strategy, which is vital for the future of the union.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the reform of electoral law in the eu for a number of reasons. i believe the introduction of constituency and member state thresholds to be undemocratic: it clearly disadvantages smaller parties, regional parties and independents. as citizens identify primarily with local, national parties, the inclusion and participation of european political groupings in election campaigns would add an unnecessary and potentially confusing dimension to those campaigns. i also believe that elections are the competency of established national authorities, and that no attempt should be made to create, or move towards the creation of, a single european electoral authority. whilst the report contained some progressive elements, in relation to female representation and extending the franchise, these failed to mitigate its worst excesses, forcing me to oppose it.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the reform of electoral law in the eu for a number of reasons. i believe the introduction of constituency and member state thresholds to be undemocratic: it clearly disadvantages smaller parties, regional parties and independents. as citizens identify primarily with local, national parties, the inclusion and participation of european political groupings in election campaigns would add an unnecessary and potentially confusing dimension to those campaigns. i also believe that elections are the competency of established national authorities, and that no attempt should be made to create, or move towards the creation of, a single european electoral authority. whilst the report contained some progressive elements, in relation to female representation and extending the franchise, these failed to mitigate its worst excesses, forcing me to oppose it.
in writing. ‒ i did not support this report, as i do not support the idea of obligatory thresholds which can exclude smaller parties and independents – even if this does not impact on my home country – and nor do i support the concept of an additional european list. i also voted against provisions for zipped lists, not because i do not believe in gender equality but rather because of the specific measure cited. there were some good proposals in this report, which i did support and was pleased to see succeed, such as the proposal to give equal visibility to the names and logos of national parties and their affiliated european parties on ballot papers and the proposal to harmonise the voting age at 16 to further enhance democratic participation in eu elections. i hope that these will be taken up by the council.
in writing. ‒ i voted for this report, as i agree in principal with many of the articles. i abstained on amendment 23 as it was grouped with a number of other amendments. however, i do agree with extending voting rights in eu elections to irish citizens outside of ireland.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the reform of electoral law in the eu for a number of reasons. i believe the introduction of constituency and member state thresholds to be undemocratic: it clearly disadvantages smaller parties, regional parties and independents. as citizens identify primarily with local, national parties, the inclusion and participation of european political groupings in election campaigns would add an unnecessary and potentially confusing dimension to those campaigns. i also believe that elections are the competency of established national authorities, and that no attempt should be made to create, or move towards the creation of, a single european electoral authority. whilst the report contained some progressive elements, in relation to female representation and extending the franchise, these failed to mitigate its worst excesses, forcing me to oppose it.
in writing. ‒ i was pleased to support this resolution on a future aviation package which dealt with competitiveness in the wider global dimension, safety and working conditions within the industry. in particular, i strongly supported the reiteration that, to encourage this growing sector, eu regulatory provisions on employment and working conditions, standards and practices – including collective bargaining practices – must be maintained.
in writing. ‒ i was in support of this resolution, as the aviation industry is a growing sector that has attracted and provided highly skilled and motivated professionals. in this case, in order to continue this trend, the current eu regulatory provisions on employment and working conditions should be maintained. in 2012 the european air transport economy directly supported 2.6 million jobs and contributed more than 2.4% of eu gdp. it is a vital sector for the eu economy.
the next item is the debate on the oral question to the commission on human rights in eu-vietnam trade negotiations by bernd lange and marietje schaake on behalf of the committee on international trade (o—000116/2015 – b8-1106/2015)(2015/2821(rsp)).
i am going to ask you perhaps to speak to each after the session and try to reach an understanding.
we take note of your comments and we will pass them on to mr schulz. now we continue with our debate.
the debate is closed.
the next item is the debate on the commission statement on the accession of ecuador to the eu-peru and colombia trade agreement (2015/2656(rsp)).
i have received one motion for a resolution from the committee on international trade tabled in accordance with rule 123(2) of the rules of procedure. the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday, 26 november 2015.
the next item is the debate on the oral question to the commission on a new animal welfare strategy for 2016-2020 by czesław adam siekierski on behalf of the committee on agriculture and rural development (o—000141/2015 – b8-1107/2015) (2015/2957(rsp)).
mr president, 25 november this week marks international day for the elimination of violence against women. women are the primary victims of domestic abuse: physically, they are the weaker sex, and they are prone to this situation. i am pleased to inform this parliament that the irish state recently signed the istanbul convention of the council of europe on preventing and combating violence against women, and in particular domestic violence. domestic violence has traditionally been viewed as something that goes on behind closed doors and should stay there. but this has changed, and we must continue to highlight cases and provide support to women – not necessarily just women who are victims of physical violence, but also abuse of a psychological nature, which can be even more sinister. twelve to fifteen per cent of women in europe face violence every day in their home. our legal system, policing system and the judicial system in particular must be trained in issues of domestic violence and recognise it so that it is not seen as something that is merely for the domestic situation. victims need to be supported, and the state services need to be fully aware of the implications of this situation.
mr president, it is disappointing that the commission’s energy strategy is weak in its proposals for a move to a low—carbon economy. we must shift the balance of energy needs to renewables and underline the absolute need for ambitious targets for efficiency. last week’s state of the energy union report by the commissioner unfortunately seems to equate energy security with a ramping—up of gas and nuclear. simply diversifying and changing gas suppliers ignores options which are safer politically and better for the climate. the commission seems to favour a network of pipelines transporting gas, including via that bastion of human rights, erdoǧan’s turkey. the commissioner speaks of putting energy first, but has already hamstrung ambitious targets and has gone against the principle of mutual respect between the institutions since this parliament backed a 40% target in october. perhaps i should not be surprised at the feebleness of the plan for energy and the climate, given that four out of every five meetings of the climate and energy commissioners were with lobbyists for private energy and fossil fuel companies. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8))
blue-card answer. – absolutely not; i do not support nuclear energy. when we talk about barking up the wrong tree with our ukip colleagues, i hope there is a tree high enough when the country is sinking due to climate change.
i would like to focus on a few important topics that i would like to address at the top of my list. firstly, i welcome the proposals from the commission to date on the energy union. this is absolutely vital for europe, particularly the point that we need to use our resources within europe as much as possible. in relation to renewables, these are obviously something that most people would want, but we also need to create a climate where the fear that has taken place among many people in the public can be allayed so that they can see renewables as something that is very good for the environment -- good for our resources and particularly good for them. secondly, i also welcome the proposals to diversify supply where we have to import, and particularly the recent proposals on lng. we have seen the effects in lithuania, and i am glad that the commission mentioned a project in my own constituency shannon lng, which has had difficulties up to now, but being part of the european strategy hopefully means it can now get off the ground because, first of all, lng diversifies supply and, secondly, it is the ideal mix with renewables. this is particularly true for shannon, because it's so close to america, and with that market probably coming on stream, this will be vital in the future. finally, i would just like to say that i will be representing parliament in paris at the cop 21. we need a binding agreement, and an agreement where all the big emitters play their part, because we don't want a situation where we have a result that leads to carbon leakage from europe.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this technical file which is essentially a ‘clean-up’ exercise for redundant pieces of legislation which are either no longer necessary or have been incorporated into other acts or texts. this practice is part of an exercise by the european commission which it highlighted through its ‘regulatory fitness and performance programme’ (refit) in 2014. the texts in question relate to issuance of schengen visas, exchange of statistical information, stamping of passports and liaison officers, among others. these texts have since been updated so are no longer needed.
in writing. ‒ i voted for this report which proposes to change the type of the act from ʽdecision’ to ‘regulation’. a regulation will be binding in its entirety and directly applicable in all member states and will better serve the purpose of the proposal to repeal the acts deemed to be obsolete. a number of acts have been identified as obsolete because their content has been taken up by successive acts or because they are temporary in nature.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this technical report, which is part of the ‘regulatory fitness’ programme. the commission identifies acts which can be repealed in the context of expiry of the transitional period set out in the treaties. these acts are no longer relevant because of their temporary nature or because their context has been taken up by successive acts. the texts in question relate to police cooperation in criminal matters but are no longer being used.
in writing. ‒ i chose to support this report as a number of acts have been identified as obsolete because their content has been taken up by successive acts or because they are temporary in nature. in changing the acts type from ‘decision’ to ‘regulation’ it will allow the act to be binding in its entirety which will better serve the purpose of the proposal to repeal the acts deemed to be obsolete. the report also contains several amendments which will improve the drafting of the act.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this technical report, which identifies acts that are no longer relevant because of their temporary nature or because their context has been taken up by successive acts. between this vote and two other votes repealing acts part of other policy cooperation matters, there are 20 legal measures to be repealed. many of these are due to the fact that the lisbon treaty amended the way eu countries dealt with police cooperation. therefore the acts to be repealed no longer apply.
in writing. ‒ i voted for this report because a number of acts have been identified as obsolete due to their content being taken up by successive acts or due to the fact that they are temporary in nature. the report will in turn improve the drafting of the act with several of the amendments it contains. simplifying and reducing the volume of european union law will lead to more clarity and efficiency throughout the eu.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report on the eu joining a body for conservation of bluefin tuna. as a result the eu will become a full member of the commission for the conservation of southern bluefin tuna (ccsbt), which is an intergovernmental organisation responsible for the management of southern bluefin tuna throughout its global distribution. the eu has already been a cooperating, extended member of this organisation since 2006. cooperating non-members participate fully in the activities of the ccsbt and are required to comply with ccsbt management and conservation measures. however, they are not entitled to vote. becoming a full member will allow the eu to have a voice in this commission. this organisation was established in the 1980s when it became apparent that the southern bluefin tuna stock was at a level where management and conservation was required. the organisation operates through a voluntary management arrangement. the largest fishers of southern bluefin tuna remain australia, new zealand and japan.
in writing. ‒ i chose to support this proposal as it will enhance the bid to contribute to rational and sustainable management of marine resources and combat illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing. the responsible management in relation to the setting of catch and fishing limits, as well as technical aspects and mandatory inspections are vital to ensure responsible fishing practices in our waters. the responsible conservation of tuna among other species in the atlantic ocean and the adjoining waters is crucial for the future of the european union.
in writing. ‒ while we have reservations about the eu representing the member states in certain capacities, we supported this report with the view that bluefin fish stocks will be better protected from international iuu fishing with the eu as a full member of ccsbt amongst other members like japan and south korea, who have a poor record when it comes to sustainability and overexploitation of stocks.
in writing. ‒ this legislative resolution provides users of insurance products with strengthened consumer rights across the eu. a positive aspect of the report is the placing of an obligation on insurance companies to show systematically that they have taken consumers’ needs into account from the commencement of any insurances product’s development. however, the proposed directive does not provide the requisite level of transparency on the insurance business as a whole: transparency rules are currently in place for investment funds and other investment products, and they should also extend to insurance investment products. furthermore, insurance intermediaries will be able to continue receiving commissions without having to disclose them, which i find particularly disconcerting. while it is recognised that the new rules strengthen consumer protection to some degree, particularly in comparison to the predecessor imd i, the lack of transparency meant that i abstained on this resolution.
in writing. ‒ we are going to see more transparency and quality for consumers and sellers alike. consumers will receive substantial information on the type and origin of bonuses for intermediaries. this means a strengthened role for the customer. member states will mutually recognise the qualifications of insurance mediators, and there will be regular training and quality-check requirements. supervisory authorities will exchange information to prevent bad practice and to be able to improve risk assessments. the new rules have been agreed on by parliament and the member states and will enter into force in late 2017.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the revised insurance mediation directive (imd2). this proposal addresses cross-sectoral inconsistencies which, when combined with a low level of cross-border purchasing, are detrimental to consumers. in comparison to imd1, the new rules clearly reinforce consumer protection. of particular use to the everyday consumer is the fact that the directive clarifies tying practices, so when insurance products are purchased together with goods, the consumer must be informed about the prices of all the individual components and must be offered the opportunity to buy the products separately. from a seller’s perspective, the proposal differentiates between the various selling channels for insurance products and therefore imposes a less burdensome registration and professional qualification requirement on those selling simple insurance products. overall, this proposal aims to ensure a level playing field for all those involved in selling insurance products and to improve policyholder advice, transparency and protection.
in writing. ‒ i supported this proposal as it seeks to improve regulation in the retail insurance market. crucially it aims to ensure a level playing field between all participants involved in the selling of insurance products and also attempts to strengthen policyholder protection. under this new proposal both consumers and retail investors buying insurance products will benefit from greater transparency with better and more comprehensible information.
mr president, i was happy to support this report and i thank the rapporteur for bringing it to the floor today, because child poverty and the fact that we are told that one in four children in europe lives below the poverty line is unacceptable. we have this knowledge and we need to act on it in terms of investing in education, in particular. education is key and reduces poverty, and it is not good enough just to provide education facilities for children; we also need to involve families, parents and guardians in that mission to ensure that they fully buy into the fact that an education is a ticket for the children to relieve them from poverty. there is also much more we can do in the area of health care, housing and nutrition programmes, and for all of us here in this parliament who know we are an ageing society: we are growing old. we will need these children in the future, and so there is not only a moral obligation to invest in these children right now, but it also makes sense from an economic and a societal point of view.
the president voted in favour of this report, which is an important report. we're talking about young children and their mothers and they have no objection to the commitment of young children and their mothers to the united nations and they've decided to do something about it. but of course, when they're poor children, they can't have anything to do with them. and every rud to ghabhann le bochtanas, cuireann se isteach orthu: easpa bia, easpa tithíochta, easpa seirbhísí sláinte, easpa seirbhísí oideachais agus fiú amháin gained the chance to be in the games to play. the eu is the only region in the world that has been able to actually address this issue; there are no laws. maybe it was our school that was in the economy, but the rud is that it's a geilleagar ag fás anois caithfimid díriú air seo go práinneach, agus gach seans a thabhairt do leanaí óga saol maith a bheith acu. but this is not the case in other eu countries.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because it clearly calls for children to be prioritised in member states when it comes to housing, education, health care and nutrition. austerity policies have created a situation where 27.7% of children are at risk of poverty and social exclusion. in my home country, ireland, the figure is above average and has actually doubled since the economic crash in 2008. extremely worrying is the fact that 1 500 children are currently homeless in ireland. this report addresses issues such as social exclusion and the need to tackle unemployment and promote job security, which will help to lift families out of poverty. the report encourages a holistic approach to dealing with the issue of child poverty and references the un convention on the rights of the child that guarantees all children universal access to housing, education, nutrition and healthcare.
in writing. – we need to offer a future to our next generation by breaking the vicious circle of poverty at the youngest age possible. this means ensuring that every child at risk of poverty has access to free healthcare, free education, decent housing and adequate nutrition. in the last few years, the commission has neglected this area of work, and it is about time that they put it back on the agenda, be it through pressure from the european parliament or from the member states’ citizens and civil society. europe will fail the current and future generations if it does not address inequalities in access to basic human services, for european children, which are once again widening on our continent. we call on the commission to introduce a child guarantee, with a specific fund, ideally with the revision of next year’s multiannual financial framework. the child guarantee could be a long—term tool to offer equal opportunities to a whole generation as well as support for parents to come out of social exclusion situations and to integrate into the labour market.
in writing. ‒ i supported this report on reducing inequalities with a special focus on child poverty. more than one in four children in the eu are at risk of poverty and social exclusion and the poverty rate for children is higher than that of any other age group, although this varies across member states. the report highlights that a number of factors are involved in perpetuating the cycle of poverty, including not only material concerns such as food and shelter but also access to education, healthcare and intergenerational poverty. i supported the call for the commission to set a europe 2020 sub-target on reducing child poverty and social exclusion and to include in each annual growth survey a specific section with the binding target on fighting child poverty as well as to include a specific indicator on children at risk of poverty or social exclusion in the social dimension of the emu. i did not support the call for a child guarantee with a specific fund to be established as i believe that member states can and should better utilise already—existing eu structural funds to fight the alarming rate of poverty among children in europe.
in writing. ‒ i voted for this report because it proposes a number of measures to help eliminate poverty and social exclusion among children. all children must be guaranteed the right to education, healthcare, housing, protection, recreation and leisure time as well as a balanced diet. as the report on child poverty in europe shows, children are increasingly under threat of poverty and social exclusion. poverty and social exclusion not only result in basic needs, such as food and housing not being given, but also generally include access to high-quality education and health services and participation in sporting or cultural leisure activities.
in writing. ‒ cohesion policy is one of the strongest instruments the european union has to fight inequality. this report builds on that, by looking specifically at how the cohesion policy can assist in empowering marginalised communities. although there is no uniform eu definition of marginalised communities, my sinn féin colleague martina anderson from the regional development committee ensured that the report acknowledged that people in cross-border, rural and isolated areas are often subject to marginalisation due to their geographical situation and should be better taken into consideration by the cohesion policy. the report also acknowledges the needs of women, people with disabilities, migrants, roma and travellers, and highlights the importance of an integrated, grass-roots, community-led and inclusive approach to solving the problems faced by these communities.
in writing. – this vote represents a great step towards a change in the way we perceive the use of eu structural funds. too often, these were spent on infrastructure. yet we see that if these resources are spent properly to counter the impact of the economic crisis, they can be powerful in their contribution to fight poverty, unemployment and social exclusion, especially at a time when austerity is affecting the most poor and vulnerable. this report rightly emphasises the need to strengthen the role of local authorities and communities to build life-long programmes, to engage with local communities, with appropriate member state and commission support. a lack of definition of marginalised communities under the eu treaties often entails their exclusion from social cohesion policies, because they are not consulted in the process. as a consequence, roma and traveller communities lose out when these policy tools target discrimination and material deprivation. that is why we urge the commission to come up with a definition, as a starting point to better tackling social inequalities with eu social policy.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the cohesion policy and marginalised communities report as i believe cohesion policy is a powerful tool in tackling the existing problems of marginalised communities. while the inclusion of marginalised communities mostly depends on the strong political will of local and national authorities on the ground, the eu cohesion policy remains one of the strongest instruments with which the eu can fight different types of marginalisation inside member states and support territorial and social cohesion in eu regions. the existing problems of unemployment, absence of social security, difficult housing situations and lack of public health services, just to name a few, continue to be faced by many municipalities alongside with the severe budgetary constraints which prevent them from dealing adequately with marginalisation in society. in the past, eu structural funds have not always taken full account of these communities. the current 2014-2020 cohesion framework puts forward new measures with the scope of improving the situation of such groups, including investment priority targeting marginalised communities.
in writing. ‒ i voted for this report as while specific national circumstances, needs and solutions vary greatly across europe, the aim of social cohesion calls for a european role in policies for the inclusion of marginalised communities. cohesion policy is one of the strongest instruments the european union has at its disposal with which to fight inequality and support territorial and social cohesion in its regions. the crisis has had a direct negative impact on members of marginalised communities, leaving many groups and communities without access to basic public infrastructure and services.
mr president, the role of the eu within the un allows us to act in a forum that is designed to tackle global challenges. the lisbon treaty recognised the eu as one such partner when it was established. in times of international crisis and in the face of global challenges, it also allows the eu to participate, particularly through its high representative for foreign affairs and security. as we are speaking in times of global challenges, i think we should remind ourselves of what the un was established for: to maintain international peace and security, to promote the peaceful settlement of disputes, to promote and protect human rights and fundamental freedoms, and to promote economic and social development. the eu, in conjunction with the un, has a key role to play in addressing these challenges. ireland joined the united nations in 1955 – 60 years ago – and its membership of the un allows it to progress its foreign policy objectives. i supported the report. i am happy to do so and happy to continue to participate in discussions as we evaluate the eu’s role in the un.
the president, once again, voted in favour of the report and i am very pleased with the report, especially the one which was tabled by the epp. so this is certainly a very important report, and i welcome the fact that we want greater cooperation and coordination with the united nations, particularly when you consider that the eu and its member states are the biggest contributors to development and humanitarian aid through the united nations. this is a very important facet. often it is difficult to reconcile, particularly nowadays, that the eu itself is being targeted. we saw what happened in paris, the threats in brussels, by countries to whom we are giving a lot of help. this highlights the fact that we have to work harder in coordinating our efforts here, but also with the united nations, to try and help these countries develop so that peace can be established and the terror comes to an end.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report as it sought to call and support for the eu as a single entity to have a more significant role in dictating foreign policy, whilst decreasing the influence of member states.
in writing. – as part of a progressive agenda, i support the reform of the un system as a means of strengthening the efficiency of the organisation and to better promote the eu’s foreign policy goals. the eu must play an active role within the united nations and contribute to effective multilateralism with a view to providing global solutions to global problems. this report sends a strong message about the need to reform the security council and our socialist group wishes the next elected secretary-general of the united nations to be a woman in order to tackle gender—based discrimination in this opaque process of selection.
in writing. ‒ i reject the approach of this report which believes the eu should use the un for achieving its foreign policy goals. therefore i voted against.
in writing. ‒ focusing on the role of the european union within the united nations system and on how to better achieve eu foreign policy goals within the un, i voted in favour of this report as it contains a number of excellent recommendations and objectives in line with the stated foreign policy objectives of the eu. the report paves the way for an annual process in which the european parliament can address the global challenges in a more meaningful and comprehensive way, as it calls on us to organise its work in the same way as the commission, encouraging all committees whose remit covers policies that have an external and global dimension to forward their opinions to the committee on foreign affairs, which has responsibility for the vp/hr report.
in writing. ‒ i decided to support this report due to the fact that the eu and its member states have a crucial role to play in promoting the shared values and principles of the un, as well as the goals of the un, through the external action of the european union. the eu is committed to actively supporting a comprehensive reform of the un system in order to strengthen its legitimacy, its regional representation and its transparency, accountability and effectiveness. it is important to improve preventive and early-warning tools and enhanced un mediation capabilities, with coherent and achievable mandates for peacebuilding and peacekeeping operations.
in writing. ‒ we voted against this report as it sought to call and support for the eu as a single entity to have a more significant role in dictating foreign policy, whilst decreasing the influence of member states.
i want to inform the house that tomorrow, 25 november 2015, is the international day for the elimination of violence against women and girls. the united nations started the initiative to illuminate landmarks in orange all over the world to raise global awareness for this important issue. the european parliament is proud to take part in this initiative and will light up in orange starting tonight until tomorrow midnight. in this way we, as the european parliament, want to stand up against violence against women and girls. this violence is one of the most cruel violations of women’s rights and therefore we need to unite efforts to eliminate it. in this context, i would like to pay tribute once again to last year’s sakharov laureate, dr mukwege: to his exceptional work as a doctor, but also to his strong message, speaking out against violence and impunity and calling every day for justice and the protection of congolese women. the european parliament and in particular the committee on women’s rights and gender equality (femm) has organised a series of activities for tomorrow, in cooperation with the commission and the council of europe. you are all invited to attend and to participate in these events.
the next item is the debate on the report by elisa ferreira and michael theurer, on behalf of the special committee on tax rulings and other measures similar in nature or effect, on tax rulings and other measures similar in nature or effect [2015/2066(ini)] (a8-0317/2015).
i was being kind because you are the rapporteur. my kindness will probably cease after we have the next speech from the co-rapporteur.
there is another blue card, but i am going to take one blue card rather than two or three at any one time because it will delay our debate.
we do have another blue card from mr carthy. i do have to say that i cannot take a blue card after every speaker. i am going to allow this one if mr simon will accept.
blue-card question.– can i ask mr simon if, in light of the fact that there is a six-month extension, he has a view as to the real work that the committee can undertake during that six months, and particularly whether or not the committee will be in a position to carry out that work if mr juncker and mr dijsselbloem do not attend, and whether he has a personal view as to whether both of these gentlemen should attend the hearings over the next number of months?
madam president, in one minute i can only refer to a few important points. first of all, let me say that i am very pleased that i was one of the original signatories requesting the setting up of this committee, and i fully support its extension. secondly, i agree with michael theurer. we do not have fair tax competition. at eu and at global level we have to find a way to ensure that multinationals pay their fair share of tax and that smes and ordinary taxpayers do not continue to shoulder a disproportionate share of the tax take. in this context, however, we also need to ensure that the eu itself remains competitive. it is not just belgium or france competing with germany or the uk, but it is also that the eu itself must compete with singapore or india. thirdly, i do not support trying to change the unanimity rule with regard to the tax rate. member states must continue to have the right to decide on that. this proposal has the potential to split the union. we should not do that; we should work with the instruments at our disposal. finally, we need to implement the oecd stance on beps. we need to ensure public country—by—country reporting, and it is essential that taxing rights are lined up with economic activity. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8))
blue-card answer.– thank you, mr szanyi. i do agree with you. i think member states have a responsibility and that they should not just be encouraged – it should be stronger than that; they should take a responsible attitude. i believe that, through the beps project that the oecd is proposing, we can make real progress. i think we have to recognise that we have a mismatch when it comes to tax systems in different member states. so i do think member states have a responsibility, and i think this report contains a lot of proposals that will help to ensure they discharge that responsibility.
member of the commission.– mr president, honourable members of parliament, when we took office one year ago, this college of commissioners put social fairness at the heart of its work. in this respect, i agree with you that a gender pension gap of 40% is entirely unacceptable. with a range from 4% to 46% in different countries across the european union, it is clear that policies do make a difference. we must reform, and we must pursue equal-opportunity policy goals in several fields long before people reach pensionable age. we are already doing this, and i will take further action to that effect. before the end of this year, we will present a strategic engagement on gender equality. this will establish an overall platform for european initiatives aimed at improving gender equality, including by addressing the underlying causes of the gender pension gap. as you know, in 2016 the commission is to present a ‘new start for working parents and care-givers’ initiative to address the challenges of work/life balance and women’s under- representation in the labour market. we believe that such a new approach can bring benefits for all: for working parents and other care-givers who seek a better balance in their work and life commitments, and also for women in terms of supporting their participation in the labour market, allowing for greater sharing of care responsibilities between women and men, and strengthening gender equality. the consultation with the social partners and the open public consultation on these issues have been launched. beyond improvements in leave arrangements, the initiative should aim to promote flexible work arrangements and affordable, good-quality care services, while removing tax and benefit-system disincentives for women to work. by addressing women’s lower labour-market participation and career breaks due to care responsibilities, the ‘new start’ initiative should also help to address the gaps in pension coverage and opportunities to build pension entitlements between women and men. the commission is also undertaking a number of policy and awareness- raising measures to address the gender pay gap. in 2016, it plans to allocate eur 4 million to member states, under the rights, equality and citizenship programme, in order to raise awareness about the gender pension gap and its underlying reasons. as regards measuring the pension gap, we will continue our monitoring of gender differences in pension outcomes and pension adequacy. we have already agreed with eurostat that the figures on the gender pension gap will be updated regularly. we will also continue our work with the member states in the employment and social protection committees on methodologies, in particular to assess the extent of gender differences in pensions, and we will, of course, use various estimates and indicators of gender difference in our work on the european semester. here we will look at other key indicators such as the gender gap in old-age poverty. data on the so-called gender pension gap derive from an indicator which the commission asked its network of academic experts on gender equality to develop. the most recent data, based on an improved methodology, have been used in the 2015 pension adequacy report, prepared with the social protection committee. the pension gap indicator measures how prior gender differences in employment, pay, working hours and length of career have influenced the gender differences in current pension entitlements. to some extent, pension systems can alleviate the full impact of past gender differences in employment: care crediting, minimum and guaranteed pensions and survivor’s pensions all offer extra pension protection to women – and, of course, without these extra protection schemes, the gaps and the exposure to risks of poverty would be larger. therefore, beyond improving gender equality in employment, we also need to preserve and improve these safeguards. to conclude on a positive note, i want to stress that, as a result of the steady increase in female employment rates in most member states over the past three decades, the wider gender gaps in many countries are set to reduce, in some cases substantially. yet unless we manage to eradicate gender differences in employment, they will continue to show up as gender gaps in pension provision. the commission will therefore not merely continue to address the gender pension gap but will intensify its efforts.
on behalf of the alde group.– mr president, i would like to thank the commissioner for her response. the figures on the gender pay gap and the pension gap are really a cause for huge concern. in my own country, ireland, the gender pay gap is just over 14%, the overall earnings gap between men and women is almost 35%, and the pension gap is 40%. now those are shocking statistics, and i suppose the questions that we must answer here this evening are, first of all, how can we narrow the current pension gap and, secondly, what can we do to ensure that the pensions of those now in employment are adequate and sustainable? i was very pleased to hear you mention a number of possible solutions. for example, you mentioned survivors’ pensions and also the idea of minimum pensions or some kind of minimum income for those past retirement. i fully support those proposals. earlier we had a debate on healthy workplaces and healthy workers, and we need to ensure that we maintain those workplaces, promote a good work-life balance and try to ensure flexible arrangements within working time so that, if people want to stay on working longer, they can. you specifically referred to credits for some kind of involuntary absence from work, whether that be for illness or for caring duties. i think we have a very fundamental question to answer at eu level and national level, and it is this: is it acceptable that those who take time off to care for those who need care will be condemned to a much greater risk of poverty in old age? in my view it is not acceptable, because society, as we have constructed it, relies on family and unpaid carers. health systems would collapse without them and social security systems would be unsustainable. therefore, as a society, we have to integrate caring responsibilities into our social security and pension systems.
on behalf of the gue/ngl group.– mr president, as my colleague said, the gender pension gap in my home state of ireland has increased since the economic crisis began. the result is that many women are denied economic independence, and the dignity that comes with it, in their retirement. we know the pension gap results from the cumulative impact of factors, including the pay gap, but we must also acknowledge when we talk of preventative measures and tackling the gender pension gap that austerity policies are exacerbating, rather than reducing, this inequality. policies implemented by successive irish governments since 2008 have worsened the situation for women in ireland. the government reduced pension entitlements for new employees in the public service, and specific sectors dominated by women – teaching and nursing – have been targeted by other measures, reducing their salaries and pensions. we also have one of the highest levels of low-paid jobs in the developed world, after the us, and more than 60% of low-paid jobs are held by women, a trend that we see across the european union. yet childcare costs are among the highest in the world, and more than 40% of the average wage in ireland. this has the effect of entirely excluding some women from participating in the productive economy and forcing others into precarious low-paid jobs that prevent them from paying into any sort of pension scheme. there are many steps we can take to tackle the gender pension gap, but first we must acknowledge the disastrous impact of austerity policies on women and immediately reverse them.
colleagues, please could i just say that, because of the importance of the debate, i have allowed a blue card. but i just want to say that it may be impossible to allow blue cards for every single speaker because we do have a formal sitting at 12 noon. so i would ask you to respect that.
we note your comments. colleagues have the option of replying to catch-the-eye, but we note your comments and take them on board.
mr president, i think i am the only irish speaker here today and that is unfortunate in some respects, because if there is one thing that paris showed us, it is that there is no single country, no single city, no football stadium, no restaurant, no individual in the western world which is not now a target for the terrorists of isis. that means we need to unite to fight them. only a while ago i saw a tweet from the irish daily mirror which underscores the point i am making. it says isis has released an english-speaking video threatening the united kingdom. therefore, action is needed. above all, i think we have to bring in the pnr directive as soon as possible. that is absolutely vital. secondly, we are involved in the data protection that has been referred to. we need clear rules, and in particular we need to guarantee the safety of individuals. if we do not, we are going to finish up with a situation where we have freedom in theory but no safety in practice.
in writing.– the attacks last week in paris have marked this session with grief, and i deplore those actions that took the lives of 130 innocent people. i want to express my deepest sympathy for the victims and families of those who died last friday in paris, and also to those who suffered at the hands of recent terror attacks in beirut and mali. europe is struggling to deal with new and evolving situations, and in this struggle i stand against fundamentalism, against bigotry, against sectarianism and against racism. allowing any of these ideologies or mind-sets to seep into our society would pose a threat to the peaceful coexistence and democratic future all of us aspire to. we must use our political standing to go beyond these senseless acts of terror and to the root causes of despair in countries such as syria and eritrea. we must stand united in our defiance of such acts of murder and united in our solidarity with paris, and other communities destroyed by violence.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, which is an annual report which takes stock of the calculation and miscalculation of contributions by member states to the eu budget. in part, it calls on the member states to use part of the allocation, in particular the one which comes from eu revenue, eur 2.3 billion, to be used for the africa trust fund, the syria trust fund and un agencies supporting refugees and humanitarianism.
in writing. ‒ i voted for this resolution as i am in complete agreement with the budgetary amendment. prudent and sound financial management of the budget is vital. it is important to note that additional financial efforts will be necessary to address the current refugee crisis. further financial assistance will also be needed to provide humanitarian assistance along the transit routes and to manage the challenges posed by the reception of the unprecedented numbers of refugees entering europe’s cities and regions.
in writing. ‒ we supported this report as it calls on the member states to use part of the allocation, in particular the one which comes from eu revenue, eur 2.3 billion, to be used for the africa trust fund, the syria trust fund and un agencies supporting refugees and humanitarianism.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, which mobilises eur 1 504m through the flexibility instrument to finance measures in the field of migration. the current situation in europe with regard to newly arriving refugees and migrants made this vote necessary within eu rules for raising the ceilings available for expenditure in this field.
in writing. ‒ i supported the immediate budgetary measures outlined in this report in order to surpass budget ceilings to allow adequate financing in the areas of migration and refugees. without the ability to surpass these budget ceilings, the required financial assistance will not be made available to deal with the challenges of the refugee crisis.
in writing. – i supported this report as it was necessary to mobilise funding to finance measures to address the refugee crisis and migration, especially in the context of the humanitarian approach.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution, which is not linked to a specific conflict situation but instead provides eur 50 million in the eu budget as a commitment to helping a country which requires assistance from this fund.
in writing. ‒ i voted for this motion because i agree that the eusf is not simply another form of eu financial support, but it also is seen as sending a clear political message of solidarity while providing much needed financial aid to the affected citizens. a prompt response capacity, including the payment of an advance, will help the union achieve this.
in writing. ‒ this agreement undoes all the cuts that the council proposed to the commission’s draft budget, but also reinforces the expenditure commitment by more than eur 2.8 billion over the commission’s draft budget. in fact, several programmes that are pivotal to promoting jobs saw their funds rise above the commission’s proposal, such as the eur 31.8 million for horizon 2020 (a research and innovation programme), eur 14.2 million for cosme (a programme to fund smes) and eur 6.6 million for erasmus+ (a programme to support youth education).
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the 2016 budgetary procedure. in particular, i was very pleased with the joint statement on the youth employment initiative (yei) that was agreed between the three institutions, including the commitment by the commission, after drawing lessons from the yei evaluation, to make proposals for the continuation of this initiative till 2020, which parliament and council undertake to examine rapidly. furthermore, i fully support the request by parliament for a 500 million package of measures to support farmers, especially in the dairy sector as well as additional measures following the russian embargo. a small additional reinforcement for fisheries was also agreed.
in writing. ‒ i chose to support this report as the proposals are in line with the eu budgetary framework and in accordance with financial rules.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution because article 1 of reach states that the aim of the regulation is to ensure a high level of protection of human health and the environment, and that only substances that do not adversely affect human health and the environment are put on the market. the proposal of the commission to authorise through an implementing act dehp in pvc plastic in spite of grave concerns regarding the impact of this chemical on human health is deeply worrying. dehp has been shown in animal studies to damage the liver, kidneys, lungs and reproductive organs of males. this chemical is a phthalate which is a member of the family of ‘gender-bending’ chemicals. by authorising this chemical the commission would be putting cheap plastic goods ahead of the risks to male infertility and misformed sex organs in prenatal and neo natal males.
in writing. ‒ this was a very important resolution despite it not being binding as it is an implementing act and not a delegated act. however, it was important to vote in favour of this resolution in order to signify to national governments the dangers of dehp as these governments still have to decide on whether they accept the commission’s draft decision to authorise dehp. the proposal of the commission to authorise dehp in pvc plastic in spite of grave concerns regarding the impact of this chemical on human health is deeply worrying. dehp has been shown in animal studies to damage the liver, kidneys, lungs and reproductive organs of males. this chemical is a phthalate which is a member of the family of ‘gender-bending’ chemicals.
in writing. – meps clearly expressed the view that the commission must not allow the recycling of plastics that contain phthalates (dehp). this substance is classified under eu law as toxic to reproduction, and member state representatives in the eu chemicals agency are unanimous about its endocrine disrupting properties. such hazardous chemicals pose threats to human health and the environment. it makes no sense to allow them to remain present in recycled pvc materials. this is a matter of particular concern to the health of workers who would be manipulating these materials. i congratulate my fellow colleagues who decided to oppose the view that the economic benefits outweigh the risks to human health. we cannot determine what a safe level for endocrine disruptors is, so we must not be making judgements about supposed trade-offs, when the science points to links between the exposure of pregnant women to this type of phthalate and birth defects in baby boys. i hope the council of eu member state governments will agree with parliament when they vote on this matter, so that we can force the hand of the commission and sort these substances out of the recycling bin.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour as the resolution is positive from a public health perspective.
in writing. ‒ i supported the objection of granting an authorisation for uses of bis (2-ethykhexhyl) phthalate (dehp) under the reach regulation. dehp is a highly toxic substance placed on the hazardous substance of very high concern list by the reach regulation because of its reproductive toxicity that can lead to male infertility even after very short exposures to the substance. substances defined as hazardous substances of very high concern may not be placed on the market unless authorised for a specific use that has been granted by the ec (european commission) through an implementing act. the application for the use of dehp as a plasticiser in the production of recycled pvc plastic that was approved by the ec shows significant deficiencies in evidence of safe use and bases the authorisation on assumed socio-economic benefits. furthermore, according to the european chemicals agency (echa), the application failed to give the necessary safety data or any adequate controls of health risks to workers, therefore although the key issue at stake here is the health risks to the workers exposed, my objection also refers to the larger concerns about the toxicity of dehp for the general public.
in writing. ‒ i chose to support this motion as dehp has been identified as a substance which poses serious risks to human health and wildlife species. scientific evidence on dehp shows that exposure during sensitive time windows of development may cause irreversible developmental programming effects leading to severe effects on development and reproduction in both humans and wildlife.
mr president, firstly i must say that i think you always do a very good job in the chair. i would much prefer a ‘speedy gonzales’ type of vice—president than a dithering slowcoach, which we occasionally have as well, but i will not go into details. referring to this explanation of vote, regretfully – and unusually for us in fine gael in the epp – we voted against our group on a certain number of measures, and also against the final report, which is unusual. we did so because this is a very strong issue for our country, and we also think that the report goes overboard in, as they say, calling on the commission, etcetera, to do certain things when certain investigations are going on right now. tax is a national competence. this has been recognised in various referendums we have had. we think, in particular, that trying to move to the common consolidated corporate tax base (ccctb) is not in our interest and, therefore, we voted against the report. there are many good measures in it, but overall we think it is leaning in the wrong direction.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report which i believe is an attack on member states tax sovereignty. the european parliament’s special taxe committee report was an elaborate pr stunt which was weak on matters of importance such as the need for full transparency while simultaneously attacking the principal of national sovereignty on taxation matters. it is my belief, that it does not serve the interests of the ordinary irish citizen to have our sovereignty relinquished through any attempted tax harmonisation. the report provided an opportunity for parliament to demand transparency and accountability in both the european and international taxation system, but the majority of meps rejected measures that would have facilitated this. instead, they adopted a number of disconcerting provisions which fundamentally undermine taxation sovereignty. sinn féin want tax fairness and transparency to be placed at the centre of any taxation legislation and this extends to ensuring that a more equitable corporate tax system is implemented. but all matters relating to the setting of tax rates must remain a matter of national competency and the european parliament has no right to attempt to attack sovereignty in this way.
in writing. – i endorse the conclusions reported by the special committee on tax rulings, set up to probe into the tax-dodging scandals revealed in last year’s lux leaks. the amount we lose to tax evasion every year has been estimated to be in the region of the whole budget of the eu. those who constantly bang on about fiscal consolidation and the need for balanced budgets should bear this in mind when faced with the inevitable budget shortfalls, with the actual ordinary taxpayers ending up on the losing side, as usual. we are only talking about a modicum of transparency and minimum standards to avoid the most egregious practices that lead us down a race to the bottom, punishing working people first and foremost. yet, getting information from the commission, member states and corporations has been like pulling teeth. many champions of austerity on the right of this parliament have been denouncing the conclusions as punitive. but the punishment has been inflicted on the most vulnerable, whereas the multinationals with the will and resources to dodge tax have been getting away with effective rates which are a joke, and that, in many instances, is an understatement.
in writing. ‒ the irish epp delegation regrettably voted against this report. while there are many positive aspects in this report, overall we believe that parliament has gone beyond its mandate in relation to tax matters in this instance. taxation is a national competence and this is clearly not respected in the report. member states should have full power to set their corporate tax rates and the consolidation of corporation taxes across the eu is clearly a form of tax rate harmonisation. the eu’s competence on tax matters is to ensure that corporate tax systems are fair and transparent; if these conditions are fulfilled, tax competition should be considered a positive thing for europe
in writing. ‒ gue/ngl welcomes the substance of the taxe committee report. it contains useful proposals for greater tax justice and reflects the negative impact of austerity on tax fairness. despite our many contributions to the report’s final shape, we abstain in today's vote for the following reasons: political responsibility for tax dumping in the eu has not been fully established and the report does not call for the necessary prolongation of the current mandate. access to documents remained unsatisfactory by council, commission and member states. multinational corporations have only responded after repeated invitations to taxe, no legal base for sanctions could be established yet and they could not be interrogated thoroughly. moreover, contradictions of the president of the eu commission, jean-claude juncker, during his testimony to taxe, were not followed up. substance-wise, core issues lack ambition beyond what the eu commission has proposed already. tax rulings should be made public and tax secrecy laws adjusted. we welcome the idea of consolidation of the tax base. however, we miss a clear commitment to broaden the tax base and we criticise the interim period before consolidation which allows for cross border loss/profit offsetting and no further backstops to prevent tax competition between eu countries."
in writing. ‒ while i welcome the report on tax rulings and other measures similar in nature or effect as it deals with many important tax issues, i voted against mandatory ccctb. ccctb should be optional. furthermore, i do not support the ep perspective on the unanimity rule on taxation matters. ireland secured a protocol in a recent referendum guaranteeing the unanimity in tax matters and i fully support this position. the commission have already launched a public consultation to help identify the key measures for inclusion in the relaunch of the ccctb proposal. ireland maintains a strong position that tax is an issue for member states and i will examine the commission’s new proposal when it is published with that in mind. the report overall has a lot of very positive aspects, in particular that whistle-blowers whose revelations promote the public interest should be better protected, increased transparency, taxpayer identification number (tin) and the simplification of the tax system.
in writing. ‒ the irish epp delegation regrettably voted against this report. while there are many positive aspects in this report, overall we believe that parliament has gone beyond its mandate in relation to tax matters in this instance. taxation is a national competence and this is clearly not respected in the report. member states should have full power to set their corporate tax rates and the consolidation of corporation taxes across the eu is clearly a form of tax rate harmonisation. the eu’s competence on tax matters is to ensure that corporate tax systems are fair and transparent; if these conditions are fulfilled, tax competition should be considered a positive thing for europe.
in writing. ‒ the irish epp delegation regrettably voted against this report. while there are many positive aspects in this report, overall we believe that parliament has gone beyond its mandate in relation to tax matters in this instance. taxation is a national competence and this is clearly not respected in the report. member states should have full power to set their corporate tax rates and the consolidation of corporation taxes across the eu is clearly a form of tax rate harmonisation. the eu’s competence on tax matters is to ensure that corporate tax systems are fair and transparent; if these conditions are fulfilled, tax competition should be considered a positive thing for europe.
i'm going to be in the groove as long as i get my group's vote on all the votes that we're going to give them and i'm going to be in the report. rud amháin gan dabht ar bith a thaispeáin na hionsaithe sceimhlitheoireachta i bpáras ná go bhfuilimid go léir i mbaol, gach duine i ndomhan an iarthair is naimhde iad of the isis. the only thing that is not clear is that the isis is a terrorist group. and you know that without the fact that you're just fooling around with them. they talk about the devil. the list is 60 countries, including myself. therefore, we have been trusted with all things; we have been trusted to be one with you; we have been trusted to be a faithful witness against you. the commission shall be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 26 to supplement this regulation by laying down detailed rules for the application of this regulation. i'm sure you'll agree. we are in agreement. caithimid continued onward without sea.
in writing. ‒ this report included some positive aspects in relation to addressing issues of intolerance, marginalisation and discrimination. however, there were a number of negative provisions which included; the extension and enhancing of the remit of eu agencies such as europol, the request of enhanced control of the eu’s borders, the calls for the isolation and segregation of prisoners, the report’s commitment to the introduction of european pnr and the call for enhanced cooperation with third countries including israel, turkey, saudi arabia, egypt and las states. these deeply concerning undemocratic aspects meant i had no option but to vote against it.
in writing. ‒ today’s vote is above all a strong signal for the european commission and the council who must implement this reports proposals. the european institutions must take responsibility, as we did today in the european parliament. european citizens are watching us, their expectations are immense. if we do not respond to these expectations, we would be exposing european citizens to barbarians.
in writing. ‒ i voted against because i do not believe the report adequately addresses the issue of radicalisation.
in writing. ‒ i supported this report which sets out parliament’s main priorities and recommendations on the issue of countering radicalisation leading to violent extremism. following the tragic attacks in paris both this month and at the beginning of the year it is apparent that almost all the perpetrators were home-grown and both the eu and member states must do all they can to fight the radicalisation of our citizens and threats to our internal security with a coordinated and cross border approach. the key word here is prevention and we must fight radicalisation with proactive measures such as close cooperation between law enforcement agencies, effective management of our external borders and targeted cooperation with third countries, inter-cultural dialogue, the role of the religious community in countering fundamentalism, hate speech and terrorist propaganda, and through the education of social and civic values to prevent marginalisation. it is important to remember that respect of fundamental rights must always be to the fore and to avoid stigmatisation of any particular community whether they are muslims, refugees or migrants.
in writing. ‒ i supported this report because a united eu approach is needed to be effective in combating the threat posed by radicalised eu citizens who may move freely around the european union. it is now estimated that over 5 000 eu citizens have left to fight for terrorist organisations in iraq and syria, and intelligent services warn on the major challenge and threat posed by their return to the eu in particular given the latest developments in syria. this report proposes recommendations on a eu strategy to prevent the radicalisation and recruitment of eu citizens. it focuses on factors such as; recruitment on the internet, radicalisation in prisons, measures to be taken through education and awareness campaign and the need for exchange of information between member states among other proposals. preventing the radicalisation and recruitment of eu citizens is an urgent necessity to overcome these terrorist organizations and in order to restore safety within the eu.
in writing. ‒ i voted for this report because health and safety is not only crucial for employees but is also beneficial to the productivity of business. the economic crisis cannot be an excuse for cutting corners on safety in the workplace and this report reiterates that point. i particularly welcome the fact that this report highlights the health and safety risks of precarious employment. this type of work, which is becoming increasingly common, undermines existing occupational health and safety structures and can exclude workers from training and access to occupational health and safety services. precarious work is also associated with mental stress due to job insecurity. this report calls on the commission to eliminate this type of work. the reiteration of the need for labour inspections to ensure compliance with health and safety and to help to deter undeclared work is also to be welcomed. austerity policies in many eu countries have led to a reduction in the number of labour inspectors, which is to the detriment of worker’s rights, including their right to a safe and healthy working environment.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which aims to improve the strategic framework on health and safety, making it more robust and effective in terms of monitoring, implementation and compliance. it calls on the commission to consolidate national country strategies in consultation with social partners and the eu-osha agency and improve data collection on work related diseases. the economic crisis has contributed to the aggravation of working conditions in some instances, including increases in reports of work-related stress. with the implementation of austerity policies, it is essential to discuss the ‘social’ cost of workplace accidents resulting from non-compliance by some employers who consider health and safety at work as a cost. preventing occupational risks and promoting health and safety in the workplace are fundamental ways of maintaining better working environments. as this report goes towards raising the standards of workers’ rights, i voted in favour.
in writing. – we spend most of our waking time at work, and yet far too many working environments and conditions are damaging to people’s physical and mental health. that is why we are calling on the commission to present concrete legislative proposals regarding better health and safety at work. equal opportunities for labour rights and public health care should be accessible to all. women and vulnerable groups and citizens in rural areas are in particular need of improved coverage and working conditions, as health and safety indicators demonstrate. the financial and economic crisis should not be used as an excuse to undermine occupational risk prevention policies as this approach is neither acceptable nor effective. nor should the alleged administrative simplifications , contained in the refit programme lead to lower health and safety standards for workers. all workers, regardless of the size of their employer, the member state of employment or the type of employment contract under which they are hired, have a right to the highest level of protection regarding health and safety in the workplace. the implementation, compliance and enforcement of health and safety provisions must be improved, new and emerging risks tackled and the fight against work-related diseases stepped up.
in writing. ‒ i was pleased to support this report on the eu strategic framework on health and safety at work 2014-2020, which is a follow-up to the commission communication of last year. although this is an area already heavily regulated by national and european legislation, more than 4 000 eu workers die due to accidents at work every year and those suffering from work-related diseases amount to more than 150 000 annually. we need a simplified framework that protects workers while keeping abreast of new and emerging risks and allows employers, particularly smes, to easily implement and enforce its provisions. i was pleased to support in particular provisions which called on the commission to consider submitting a proposal for a legal act to combat harassment and violence at work, and on member states to fully implement the working time directive, and for employers and policymakers to ensure and facilitate a sound work-life balance in relation to domestic work and employees who also have care responsibilities in their private life.
in writing. ‒ i voted for this report because employees have a right to the highest level of protection regarding health and safety in the workplace. every year more than 4 000 workers die due to accidents at work and the number of fatal work-related diseases contracted stands at 150 000 every single year. even though much progress has been made over the years in regard to occupational health and safety, major risks to health and safety for workers continue to exist. the economic benefits of ambitious policies in the area of occupational health and safety are well documented and include higher productivity and labour force participation as well as increased sustainability of social security systems. the economic costs of work-related injuries and illnesses are significant and very costly.
the president, like other members of the european parliament, should speak out against what is happening in cambodia at the moment, especially against what is being done to bring the country back to the status quo. but it is also clear that the cambodians are not happy to accept the laws that are imposed on them, and they are not happy to give the people of cambodia their human rights. i can't love your laws without them. caithfear human rights to give of chuile dhuine. and in any country, the only real thing you have to do is to be there with your friends. and if you're not, you can't do anything about it. we should be much more careful about the authorities in cambodia. especially when sam rainsy's bad luck is gone, caithfimid stop playing by the rules.
on behalf of the ppe group.– madam president, obviously we are right to absolutely condemn the acts of islamist extremists who have carried out brutal murders against bloggers and journalists, etc. this is particularly regrettable, because bangladesh itself signed up to the international covenant on civil and political rights in 2000. for some, freedom of expression, which is guaranteed in that, is not really worth the paper it is written on. in particular, the country itself has an information and communication technology act, which criminalises defamatory anti-state publications and which is often used as a kind of ‘catch all’ to stop opposition to government. journalists, bloggers and writers have been targeted, and i think it is only right we should call on the authorities to drop charges against journalists and writers for merely expressing their opinion.
madam president, the recent news that secular bloggers, publishers and journalists are once again the targets of violence in bangladesh is extremely worrying. the attacks against, and indeed murders of, people exercising their freedom of expression there have escalated over the past year, and five secular thinkers have been killed in 2015. such intimidation and the threats of continued violence are quickly eroding freedom of expression in bangladesh – a freedom enshrined in that country’s constitution. many writers have fled, are in hiding or have been silenced by such threats. this is unacceptable. the government of bangladesh must not be seen to be granting impunity to those responsible for attacks on secularism. in a climate of increasing fear and denigration of the freedom of expression, the government must move away from defending laws that prohibit criticism of itself and instead must protect free, independent and secular thought.
madam president, my apologies for not being alert earlier. i support this proposal, i voted in favour of it, and, being a member of the committee on international trade, i am, of course, proud of the work that they are doing and will continue to do in the future. opening up trade is imperative if we want to see sustainable economic growth, in particular in low-income developing countries. it is equally important to implement policies that promote the maximum distribution of trade reforms and counterbalance any negative effects, especially of reforms in areas such as budget transparency and education. i believe we should continue to work in this regard and to play a leading role in promoting tangible progress in the ongoing world trade organization (wto) negotiations with a view to the full conclusion of the doha development round in the near future, as well as in facilitating the full participation of low-income developing countries in global trade by acting as a bridge between the various positions and wto members.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this resolution as it ignores some of the main issues with the trade talks. the needs and interests of developing countries, especially least developed countries are not the focus of the doha development agenda which has been going on since 2001 and has been predictably dominated by the larger industrialised countries.
in writing. ‒ this resolution was another worrying attempt towards a regressive trade agenda. as an mep, i have been closely monitoring a number of trade agreements including ttip, tisa and ceta. the common thread running through these agreements is an aggressive attempt to call for further liberalisation, even though the disadvantages of liberalisation have become clear in many economic sectors – particularly in the financial sector. the doha development agenda talks, which were set up with the original intention of improving trade for developing countries, have been predictably dominated by industrialised countries instead. wto actions should be able to contribute to achieving the recently adopted sustainable development goals instead of solely pushing trade liberalisation. increasing trade for its own sake is not enough – trade must be fair if it is to lift people out of poverty. it was for these reasons that i voted against this resolution.
in writing. ‒ i supported this resolution as it stresses the importance of taking full account in the negotiations of the special needs and interests of low-income developing countries. a structural reform of the wto is needed in order to better guarantee an open, fair and non-discriminatory trading system which takes greater account of the role and interests of the variety of economic operators, such as smes, micro-enterprises and innovative start-ups.
in writing. ‒ i abstained on this resolution which is an accompanying resolution for a vote due to take place next year on the accession of ecuador to the columbia-peru free trade agreement. the resolution sets out parliament’s demands to be addressed prior to giving consent next year. positive aspects of the resolution include calling on the ecuadorian government to combat poverty, protect indigenous tribes, cooperate on specific environmental and deforestation programmes, recognise fair trade, and further principles of democracy and human rights. it also calls for a reflection and reassessment of the current columbia-peru agreement before adding ecuador as a partner. despite these positive aspects and attempts by myself to amend certain paragraphs, the text that was eventually adopted included wording that called for the ‘quick and complete entry into force and implementation of the agreement’, thereby negating the call for reflection on aspects of the agreement dealing with labour rights, sustainable development, the environment, etc. for this reason i could not support the resolution.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution as the accession of ecuador to the trade agreement with colombia and peru would be another decisive step forward in the alliance with important like-minded and fast-growing countries in a region that is turning more and more to asia and the pacific. the accession of ecuador to the eu-peru and colombia trade agreement matches the ambitions of both the eu and ecuador. the ecuadorian government has invested usd 40.8 billion in the social sector in areas such as education, healthcare and social security over the past eight years, with specific programmes targeted at assisting the most vulnerable groups such as children, the elderly and the disabled.
the president, the attorney general and the ministers of the interior are responsible for the report and the implementation of the report. 542 making laws and reporting. of course, it's right to give him air. it's important to have a good relationship with the people of china. it is said gurb is an madra an cara is fearr ata ag an bhfear, agus tá se sin fíor do mhná comh maith. but at the same time, the atas orm gur dhiúltaíomar gives it to the leasuithe and comes to the chlé. the commission has 36 pages of information on the website and has also sent it to my group and to the 32 members of the european parliament, who have been informed of the progress of the work.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this strategy which calls on the commission to draw up a new animal welfare strategy for the period 2016-2020. it also asks the commission to implement outstanding points from the current strategy and for further evaluation of the 2012-2015 strategy. the joint resolution which was eventually adopted was a result of inter-party negotiations in the days leading up to the vote and was balanced in calling for ambitious new policy instruments where scientific evidence demonstrates welfare problems, while also recognising that the level of animal welfare in the european union is among the highest in the world. there were certain amendments which i could not support, including those which would have detracted payments from existing schemes for farmers who are already struggling to make ends meet. but also some amendments which i could support including those to combat the illegal wildlife trade and illegal bird hunting. overall, i chose to support this strategy which was good from the point of view of asking the commission to ensure an ambitious updated and comprehensive legislative framework.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of parliament’s resolution on a new animal welfare strategy 2016-2020. the resolution, which builds on the current strategy which expires this year, calls for better implementation of existing eu rules in all member states to ensure high animal welfare standards across the eu. even though the level of animal welfare in the eu is one of the highest in the world, this resolution aims to further improve standards through the basis of scientific findings with due regard for the efficiency and competitiveness of agricultural livestock husbandry. eu citizens have a strong interest in animal welfare and this resolution should enable them to make more informed choices as consumers.
in writing. ‒ i voted for this resolution as eu citizens have a strong interest in animal welfare and they wish to be able to make more informed choices as consumers. animal welfare is interrelated with both public and animal health in the european union. where there is clear scientific evidence demonstrating animal welfare problems the commission needs to adapt policy instruments or introduce new ones to resolve these problems.
in writing. ‒ i supported the motion for a resolution on a new animal welfare strategy, but believe implementation of existing rules is necessary before contemplating new measures.
the president, by voting for the report, also recognised the importance of education. the people are an equal opportunity to the people, the political, social and economic rights are in effect, and they have the right to get their lives back. but there are billions of young children in places where they have no education, no jobs, no time to go to school and we have done everything we can to help them, especially because they can go to school and they would have to be taught by teachers in a school to teach and protect them. and we've tried to do everything we can to make sure that it doesn't affect those countries. of course our 2020 strategy is, and we are very excited about the opportunity to bring everyone from one school to another, and from high school to a third-level school together. it's without a sea bath.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this motion for a resolution, which was aimed at ensuring that children living in conflict-areas have access to education. it is truly disturbing that close to one billion children – 250 million are under the age of five – find it difficult to access education because of living in a conflict or other emergency situation. given our own history of conflict in ireland and given the crucial importance that young people can play in post-conflict stability when equipped with the necessary skills, this was a particularly important resolution. if young people are not provided with the necessary opportunities and education this increases the risks of social upheavals or slipping back into a vicious cycle of violence. a proven way of counteracting any such vacuum is through a concentrated focus on education.
in writing. ‒ i supported this resolution as there are almost 10 million children who are refugees and an estimated 19 million children worldwide who have been displaced in their country as a result of conflict. i believe that every child’s rights should be respected without discrimination regardless of their or their parent’s ethnic origin, nationality or social, migration or residence status. education is essential for the integration and improvement of living conditions of children with disabilities or special educational needs.
in writing. ‒ we voted in favour of the resolution as it calls for increasing the share of eu humanitarian funds for the education of children in emergencies and protracted crises, and on all host countries to help integrate child refugees into their national education system.
madam president, simplification, in particular of cohesion policy, is certainly needed because, of all the good things we do in the european union, this is probably the most confusing in respect of application and oversight, etc. then we add gold-plating, which often makes it even more difficult for would-be beneficiaries and, of course, more costly for smes. there really is a need for greater simplification, and i am delighted that the new commission has put emphasis on that. they will have a field day here, because there is so much simplification needed. i once gave a talk on cohesion policy and i think it was probably the most boring speech i ever gave, because i was trying to explain something that is so complicated, it was almost impossible to put it in simple terms.
in writing. ‒ this was a particularly important resolution, the aim of which is to simplify access to cohesion funding. the resolution was proposed by the committee on regional development in recognition of the fact that complicated procedures (such as administration issues and onerous auditing procedures) around cohesion policy funding can place a heavy burden on beneficiaries and that there is a need to simplify the rules, especially for beneficiaries with less administrative and financial capacities, in order to better align financial instruments to beneficiaries’ needs. it calls on the commission to enter into an ongoing dialogue with parliament, the committee of the regions and other stakeholders on all aspects of any simplification process.
in writing. ‒ i supported this resolution because the complicated procedures can place a significant burden on beneficiaries, in particular small and medium-sized businesses, ngos and municipalities which are in need of eu funding. in general these entities do not have the financial and human resources nor the expertise to successfully apply for and manage eu grants. simplification through new measures can help cut obstacles and increase the overall investment impact of eu funding.
madam president, am i right in saying that this is your first time chairing plenary? i certainly cannot recall seeing you here before. so i would like to compliment you. i thought you did a very good job. you got through the votes very efficiently. moreover, the political right were not accusing you of going too fast and the political left were not accusing you of going too slowly. so you struck the perfect balance. well done!
madam president, thank you very much for the opportunity to speak on this. the circular economy has to be about more than legislation and about more than just talking about the circular economy. the circular economy has to be about the way you live your life. you have got to live it, and if you want this to happen, one of the first things you do if you want to make something happen is you lead by example. now we have got to ask ourselves in here: ‘are we leading by example?’ are we following the three rs: recycling, reducing, etc.? well, we are not. you look at the fact that the water the meps drink in here is out of plastic bottles: whatever happened to a water font? we look at the coffee machines: we have cartridges there that are virtually impossible to recycle. whatever happened to a jar of coffee and a spoon, or is it not good enough for you? we travel up and down to strasbourg – have you ever heard of ‘reduce’? a good way to reduce it would be to cut out that complete and utter codology. i go to committee meetings – and remember we are asking people to follow us – reams of paperwork! have you ever heard of e-mail? lead by example, otherwise forget it!
madam president, as cop 21 is taking place – and i am very pleased that i will be one of those representing parliament there next week – the discussions we are having today are very relevant. firstly, we had a very good discussion on the circular economy, and now we are discussing sustainable urban mobility. obviously, with 80% of people living in urban areas, this is a vital topic. in fairness, many citizens are now becoming more and more aware of the need to decarbonise as much as possible. in urban areas especially, we can do an awful lot. i would like to compliment particular groups in my own country, like the tidy towns committees, which have done a tremendous amount in terms of cleaning up the town, ensuring walkways, cycle lanes, etc. however, some of that is outside their control and we have to do an awful lot, particularly in the area of transport. we need bypasses in towns to keep traffic that does not necessarily have to go through the town out of the town and to give the town back to its citizens, in particular, so that they can have a good quality of life.
mr president, to kick-start struggling economies across the eurozone, the ecb is currently engaged in what is commonly called quantitative easing: eur 60 billion created every month to spend on the purchase of sovereign bonds on the secondary market. meanwhile, the ecb is forcing the irish central bank to engage in what i call quantitative squeezing: the destruction of eur 31 billion, billions that were created in 2009 and 2010 at the height of the euro crisis to bail out the creditors of two zombie, insolvent, non-systemic irish banks. does anyone see the contradiction here? in 2011 our central bank destroyed eur 3.1 billion. last year we destroyed eur 1 billion and already this year we have destroyed eur 1.5 billion. this destruction of borrowed billions is happening at a time when ireland is suffering record suicide numbers, record numbers of patients waiting on trolleys in accident and emergency, record numbers of people homeless. next month a single resolution fund will be introduced which will ensure that in the case of any new failures, banks rather than the sovereigns will foot the bill. where were those structures in 2009 and 2010? why has it taken until now, five years later? biggest question of all, why is ireland still being forced to carry the full cost of this fundamental failure by the eu in the design of the euro, and by the ecb itself to pay for those possible bank failures?
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of setting up the taxe ii committee. according to the new mandate taxe ii should either produce a resolution or another report. i have called for a report to be produced as a report is more effective and carries more authority as opposed to a resolution. as it stands, it has been agreed that a report will be issued but only if the taxe ii makes new discoveries. i have a number of reservations as to whether the committee will discover anything of substance, as the lack of political will to date has been very disappointing. however, i will continue to monitor this situation closely.
in writing. – that the conference of presidents of the european parliament managed to agree on setting up a new mandate for the special committee on tax rulings and other measures similar in nature or effect (taxe) is a victory in itself. moreover, the committee will not only continue its work as planned, but it will also operate on a stronger mandate. the socialists and democrats group was very much concerned with, and engaged in, securing an extension that, at a minimum, preserved the current committee’s role. thanks to the new taxe committee mandate, we will be able to monitor the commission and the member states as to the implementation of the measures laid out in the report that reflects the first six months of the committee’s work. we must continue to battle tax fraud and tax avoidance. big multinationals are getting away with avoiding to pay far too much of their fair share, for far too long.
in writing. ‒ i voted for this report as it is important to fully build on and complete the work carried out by the taxe special committee in particular to address the unresolved issues highlighted. it is also vital to allow access to relevant documents for its work, including the minutes of meetings of the code of conduct group. in addition to this, it will allow the necessary hearings with international, european and national institutions as well as the other parties involved or affected to take place which is vital going forward for member states.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the appointments to the special committee on tax rulings (taxe ii). while of course the composition of the committee is very important, we should not lose sight of the fact that this committee should not just be another elaborate pr stunt. according to the new mandate taxe ii should either produce a resolution or another report. i have called for a report to be produced as a report is more effective and carries more authority as opposed to a resolution. as it stands, it has been agreed that a report will be issued but only if the taxe ii committee makes new discoveries. i have a number of reservations as to whether the committee will discover anything of substance as the lack of political will to date has been very disappointing. however, i will continue to monitor this situation closely.
in writing. ‒ i abstained because i do not believe the eu should have a role in the tax affairs of member states.
in writing. ‒ i voted for this resolution in order to allow the taxe committee to continue their work and address any unresolved or outstanding issues.
in writing. ‒ following the adoption of council directive 2003/48/ec, the savings directive, and in order to preserve the level playing field of economic operators, the eu signed agreements with liechtenstein providing for measures equivalent to those laid down in the directive. the commission adopted on 17 june 2011 a recommendation for a mandate to initiate negotiations with liechtenstein in order to upgrade the eu’s agreements with those countries in line with international developments and to ensure that those countries continue to apply measures equivalent to those in the eu. on 14 may 2013, the council reached an agreement on the negotiating mandate.
in writing. ‒ i abstained because i do not have an opinion on this.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which aims to assist in improving international tax cooperation and compliance. i agree that this report is an important step in ongoing efforts to clamp down on tax fraud and tax evasion. through this report tax administrators in member states and in liechtenstein will be able to identify correctly and unequivocally the taxpayers concerned, administer and enforce their tax laws in cross-border situations and assess the likelihood of tax evasion being perpetrated.
in writing. ‒ this report was concerned with the frontex complaint mechanism and the aim is to have an internal complaint mechanism within frontex. however, an internal mechanism instead of an independent body is inadequate. therefore, while the intention behind the report was positive, it did not contain enough procedural safeguards, so on this basis i abstained on the final vote.
in writing. ‒ parliament rightly endorsed the european ombudsman’s call for a stronger complaints mechanism allowing refugees to raise complaints on foot of breaches of fundamental rights. closer cooperation between frontex and the ombudsman would be invaluable to address concerns that fundamental rights violations are not being effectively followed up. furthermore, there is a great need for special protection of unaccompanied minors, women who are victims of gender-based persecution, lgbti persons and other vulnerable groups. in order to do so, measures such as gender-based training on gender-based violence and vulnerability of migrant women is necessary. in order for the complaints mechanism to be effective, it is vital that information is available to the complainants and that this information can be distributed in the official eu languages and in languages that the complainants can understand. lastly, a significant step towards improving frontex’s transparency, accountability and effectiveness will come from allowing the thorough investigation of individual complaints, the use of funds by frontex to be made public and details regularly reported to parliament.
in writing. ‒ in 2013, the european ombudsman (eo) issued a special report following an own-initiative inquiry because frontex did not implement its recommendation to create an individual complaint mechanism through which it could deal with individual incidents of fundamental rights breaches to have supposedly occurred in the course of its operations. in view of the ever growing humanitarian and legal challenges at the eu’s external borders, the peti/libe committee draft ini report supports the eo’s recommendation that frontex should deal with complaints regarding infringements of fundamental rights in the course of its operations and should set up such a mechanism based on article 26(a) of the frontex 2011 regulation.
in writing. ‒ i abstained as the report is incomplete.
in writing. ‒ i supported this report due to the fact that an individual complaints mechanism should be both efficient and transparent. additionally, the fundamental rights office must be adequately equipped and staffed to handle the complaints received and must have the necessary additional resources for this purpose. ensuring the efficient implementation of the common rules on standards and procedures for the control and surveillance of the external borders with respect to fundamental rights, by means of closer coordination of operational cooperation between member states, is fundamental in the current migration climate.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because i believe that we need to look at ways to reduce conventional car use in order to bring down our carbon emissions and air pollution. this report promotes public transport which is the only way that we can effectively encourage people to move away from car use. in ireland, only 8% of the population uses public transport at least once a day; this makes us one of the lowest users of public transport in the eu, second only to cyprus. a recent survey showed that 50% of respondents cited cost as the main reason for their reluctance to use public transport. given that the irish public transport system is the least subsidised public transport system in the whole eu, is it any wonder that fares are so high as to be a barrier to use. it beggars belief that the united states subsidises its private transport system more than ireland subsidises its public transport. sustainable urban mobility will never be achieved if we refuse to invest in public transport.
in writing. ‒ this was a positive report which contained a number of progressive provisions. it discusses the need for, and ways to reduce conventional car use, carbon emissions and air pollution in european cities by promoting public transport without imposing solutions on member states. there were some provisions contained within which i was concerned with. for example, i voted against point 48 which endorsed road toll booth charges. i also voted against point 47 which endorsed the ‘polluter pays’ principle in individual car use. sinn fein policy supports the ‘polluter pays’ principle for major polluters but not in consumer taxes, for example the irish carbon tax. however, as this was a progressive report with an important intention, i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. – adequate, sustainable urban mobility solutions hold a lot of potential in our efforts to address growing sources of inequality and achieve the eu climate change targets. we aim to halve the use of ‘conventionally fuelled’ cars in urban transport by 2030, and to eliminate their use by 2050. we also want to make carbon-free movement of goods a reality in major urban areas by 2050. in order for this to happen, policymakers must promote mobility improvements that are efficient, sustainable and less dependent on the use of private, conventionally fuelled cars. furthermore, the way the eu finances urban mobility projects cannot be focused solely on infrastructure. it must also encompass it services and an increased focus on inter-regional projects. funding application processes can often be tricky and burdensome, and there is room to make them more accessible and manageable by local authorities. urban mobility is not just about transport systems and emissions, people are the driving force of the economy. transport workers and those in related sectors in cities are often overlooked. their vital role in ensuring the quality and safety of public transport must be born in mind to ensure the sustainability of these essential services.
in writing. ‒ sustainable urban mobility requires high-quality investment that will serve the general interest. this means that it can help achieve the eu’s resource-efficiency objectives, in particular those linked to the circular economy with its job-creating potential. many european countries currently have to cope with dilapidated and costly infrastructure. in order to develop and maintain urban transport infrastructure, the main idea is to dedicate a part of eu funds such as the erdf, cef and cohesion funds to sustainable urban mobility projects. the commission’s support is also needed for research and innovation projects linked to urban transport, through its research framework programmes (horizon 2020) and the european fund for strategic investments (efsi).
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour as the proposal makes sense to the general public.
in writing. ‒ i voted for this report because mobility should be a right for all citizens. mobility will assist in making access to school, work, culture and health easier for all. the transformation to more sustainable modes of transport is very important looking into the future. the majority of our mobility is based on cars which bring negative consequences such as road traffic congestion at a very high cost for european citizens, roughly eur 80 billion. this report will aim to redirect urban mobility towards more sustainable modes of transport with the goal of facing up to the challenges of our century, mainly protecting the climate, health and environment as well as the well-being and security of citizens.
mr president, i fully support the priority objective of an energy union and we need to move quickly in this direction. we are not going to get the growth we all want to see across the 28 member states of the european union unless we have a sufficient energy supply. it is crucially important that we back the framework convention (fc) proposals, the juncker plan, and use the opportunity of investment so that we can get more interconnectors and get more networks in place to make sure that we have the infrastructure in place to create a genuine energy union across the european union. i applaud the success of paris last week. i come from ireland, a country which imports over eur 7 billion worth of energy every single year because we are at the end of a very long gas pipeline. we depend on others for our energy supply. we need to invest in renewables. we need to invest in alternatives. we have got to make sure that energy becomes more efficient in our building, and all other things we need to do to make sure this energy union happens.
mr president, i welcome this proposal and i want to congratulate my colleague teresa for her work in highlighting the need of victims right the way across our society. as others have said, we have a responsibility to help those people who are innocent victims of terrorism, right the way across the 28 member states of the european union. in our own country in ireland, we were subjected for over 35 years to an illegal, criminal campaign by the ira and other organisations which killed people, intimidated people, criminalised people, and especially ensured that the proceeds of their activity in crime were put underground and used for other alleged activity. the point is this: we have a responsibility to support people who are dealing with their injuries and who are dealing with bereavement. in the circumstances where our country, especially, has gone through a transformative process as a result of the reconciliation – the peace agreement – we need to do much more now. i call on the commission to see within six months whether or not all member states of the european union have transposed the legislation that this house passed, and i call on the commission to name those member states where much more needs to be done.
on behalf of the gue/ngl group.– madam president, i welcome the opportunity to speak in favour of this gm objection that i co-authored. it is simply not acceptable that the commission announced on friday that it plans to authorise a gm product just days after the committee on the environment, public health and food safety voted in parliament to ban it. juncker has betrayed his pre-election promise to democratise the authorisation procedure, and whilst the commission also readily accepts that serious flaws exist in this current process, neither seems to be too concerned, given their obvious willingness to continue authorising gmos. the european parliament roundly rejected their gm food and feed proposal earlier this year because it was not fit for purpose. but, crucially, it asked them to come forward with a new and improved one, not to carry on regardless. until the commission starts to listen to concerned citizens and meps and comes forward with a serious proposal which addresses their worries, the authorisation procedure should be halted. it is farcical that this has not been done to date.
madam president, i would like to thank and congratulate the rapporteur for his thorough review of the implementation of the progress microfinance facility, which was created to build on the positive impact that micro-loans have on local economies in developing countries, and has been seen to be successful across european countries as well. it is not built to directly finance micro-enterprise, but allows providers or intermediaries to increase their lending. it has helped those they support to realise their potential as entrepreneurs, to develop new skills through training and monitoring and to find jobs. it is aimed at target groups: the unemployed, those claiming social benefits, immigrants – people who cannot get conventional bank loans. it is primarily a socio-political instrument, providing loans of up to eur 25 000. as we know, the best social policy that one can give is the opportunity to help people to help themselves – to give them a leg-up, rather than a hand-out. entrepreneurship gives people meaning, allowing them a stake in their own community, and that filters through in the value that it provides in terms of job creation, confidence and certainly vibrancy in that community. there have been a number of comments raised in the report. while the implementation of the facility has been successful, nonetheless there are areas where it can be improved. in the area of women’s entrepreneurship, we need to ensure we look at best practice and encourage sharing of experiences and, of course, youth entrepreneurship. i very much look forward to the next step in this progress, the social innovation programme in april 2016, and i look forward to the commissioner’s contribution in that area.
madam president, i listened very carefully to what the commissioner and my colleagues had to say, and i am very pleased overall. i remember being here in plenary five or six years ago when this was being discussed, and many members were making the point that, due to the financial crisis, in particular young entrepreneurs and female entrepreneurs could not get the money needed to start up. it is great that this has been such a success. as the commissioner pointed out, there has been only a 5% drop-out and, particularly, a figure of 37% women – even though the target was 40% – and they hope to move to 50-50. that is very encouraging indeed. she also mentioned the review in 2016, and hopefully this will continue. it has to continue, because it has been a success. we need to hear more about the successes in europe rather than the criticisms we hear of our failings.
the uachtaráin is managing the micro-financing so that it can be used to finance the medium term. i'm going to go and eat them for my job. the unemployment rate in ireland and europe is far higher than ever, and now more than ever, foreign countries need help to bring in small businesses to help them develop and expand and create more jobs. there are many challenges to competing with the multinational corporations in the world. it's not much use to be standing on a double line at a party. the micro-environment is outside the test area and is fairly useful to help those who are in the area. the commission and the council welcomed the introduction of the social legislation, but the dual rules are not yet in force and will be applied on a continuing basis.
the uachtaráin, is a special act in the matter of the sea and the irish sea islands and of course there are many people around the coast depending on the fishing of the maireachtint. they are ag iascaireacht laws in cianta agus dar ndóigh deirtear liom go bhfuil a lán díobh faoin dlíthe de bharr pholasaithe na heorpa nfheadar an bhfuil sé sin fíor nó nach bhfuil sé fíor, ach is dócha go gcaithfear éisteacht laws an méid atá le rá acu. they are ag iascaireacht laws in cianta agus dar ndóigh deirtear liom go bhfuil a lán díobh faoin dlíthe de bharr pholasaithe na heorpa nfheadar an bhfuil sé sin fíor nó nach bhfuil sé fíor, ach is dócha go gcaithfear éisteacht laws an méid atá le rá acu. we therefore have to take account of european fisheries policy, especially in the case of the baltic sea fisheries. i think they're going to think they don't know anybody. in particular, when we look at the ocean, we should look at the way that we can give them, based on scientific evidence, the same information that we can give them. i'm telling you, i'm telling you, i'm telling you, i'm telling you, i'm telling you, i'm telling you, i'm telling you, i'm telling you, i'm telling you, i'm telling you, i'm telling you, i'm telling you, i'm telling you, i'm telling you, i'm telling you, i'm telling you, i'm telling you, i'm telling you, i'm telling you, i'm telling you, i'm telling you, i'm telling you, i'm telling you, i'm telling you, i'm telling you, i'm telling you, i'm telling you, i'm telling you, i'm telling you, i'm telling you, i'm telling you, i'm telling you, i'm telling you, i'm telling you, i'm telling you, i'm telling you, i'm telling you, i'm telling you, i'm telling you, i'm telling you, i'm telling you,
madam president, over the last week excessive levels of rainfall – courtesy of storm desmond, as referred to by my colleague mrs ward – have also resulted in widespread flooding in ireland. significant damage has been done to homes, to businesses and to farmlands. while action needs to be taken at national level, there is also a european dimension. first of all we have to assess the damage to see if there is a basis for applying the solidarity fund. secondly, we need to make better use of regional funds. indeed, former commissioner hahn confirmed to me over three years ago that regional funds could be used for the purpose of putting flood defences in place. thirdly, and perhaps most urgently, is the following: time and time again we have been told in ireland that we cannot dredge or drain any rivers, as european legislation – the habitats directive – will prevent it. i do not believe that this directive was ever intended to stop reasonable, workable and effective flood mitigation measures. we need to get our act together in ireland and have one body in place overseeing, managing the issue, doing what needs to be done and doing what works.
the uachtaráin, is in the stormeacha tar éis an t-uafás damáiste a dhéanamh ar fud na héireann agus ba mhaith liom tréaslú laws in the slándála services mar aon le gnáthphobal na tíre agus an obair iontach is ar good ag deal laws in the stormeacha. they're a lot of people to help each other, so it's a lot harder than it used to be. the european union should itself use a solidarity system to support people in need of help in their homes, their families and their written documents. the damage is not caused by climate change but by the destruction of the environment in the first place; it is the damage caused by storms and the strategic planning that is the cause of these laws. the local authorities have been asked to ensure that there is no real plan in place to ensure that there is a limit to the amount of damage. no one writes to you, but people write to you. and i don't know how many people go to the taoiseach, but kenny, we're not going to have any real airs in ireland. caithfear face to face with that air.
madam president, last week we celebrated the international day of the universal declaration of human rights. the preamble to this states clearly: ‘recognition of the inherent dignity and of the equal and inalienable rights of all members of the human family is the foundation of freedom, justice and peace in the world’. indeed, we expect all member states to abide by that in all their dealings, and rightly so. when there are breaches of human rights we often debate them here in parliament, particularly on thursdays in the urgent debates. i take part in these every week, and this week, for the first time, there will be one relating to a citizen from my own country: a young man who celebrated his 20th birthday at the weekend. unfortunately it was his 850th night in prison in egypt. he was caught up as a 17-year-old in the protests there a few years ago and is awaiting trial. so we hope, with the support of all members of the house, to get a resolution to this and to get him returned to his family in ireland.
madam president, full economic and monetary union was the core of the original great plan rejected by the member states at the design stage of the currency. at that point the project should have been scrapped. that it was not scrapped, that we had catastrophe in country after eurozone country after launch, with five bankrupted and most others with vastly increase debt-to-gdp ratios, that we now have emu being eased through, begs the question: was this plan b from the start? was that the thinking of those who have masterminded all this? the catastrophes in the likes of ireland and spain were accurately foretold as early as 1998 by such a renowned economist as paul de grauwe, and thus must also have been foreseen by those who were at the fore in pushing forward this currency union. have we all been taken for a ride? was all this pain, suffering and hardship – and even death – in ireland, in greece, in portugal, spain, italy, cyprus, foreseen, or even planned? i am against the emu. the sooner ireland gets out the better. this is meant to be a debate on the future of this union. i, for the vast majority of this debate, was the only irish mep present. where the hell is the democracy? it is dead.
madam president, it is great to be taking part in this debate in the atmosphere we have now as opposed to four or five years ago. the feeling is that the recession is behind us, matters have stabilised and we are on an upward trajectory. obviously to keep that going we have to complete the emu, and the cmu and banking union are vital parts of that architecture. as has been mentioned, structural reforms at member state level are also vital. in my own country, we were one of worst affected by the crisis: we had to enter a bailout; we had to take tough decisions; the government had to take a lot of criticism; and the irish people had to make many sacrifices. but now we are, as a result, the fastest growing economy in europe. so that means that it is important for every member state to abide by the rules agreed and especially in relation to the stability and growth pact. if one member state gets away with breaking these rules again, the whole thing will unravel and we would be back to square one. so abiding by the rules and implementing them is vital.
in writing.– the completion of europe’s economic and monetary union raises a number of serious concerns and is a matter which all member state governments should be very attentive to. on a wide scale it is designed to undermine the principle of subsidiarity and to strip member states of their decision-making competencies in key economic areas. as part of this package, member states are required to set up national competitiveness boards. however, competitiveness boards are a dangerous solution addressing the wrong issue. with euro-area exports exceeding imports by more than 3% of gdp, the euro area is not suffering from a lack of competitiveness. the euro area’s main problem is the (private) debt overhang inherited from a financial market-driven boom that went bust. this cannot be addressed by trying to export our problems to the rest of the world. squeezing wages will make matters worse by undermining internal demand and by triggering deflation. meanwhile, export market gains will eventually be neutralised by currency appreciation or by weakening of the euro area’s trading partners’ economies. the focus on (cost) competitiveness is short-sighted. establishing a system of competitiveness boards will contribute to further imbalances at the expense of social cohesion.
in writing. – this agreement’s intention is to enable switzerland to contribute to and participate in the european asylum support office. therefore, its aim is also to allow swiss nationals to work with the european asylum support office. as this is a positive and progressive move, i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ switzerland has agreed to participate voluntarily in the eu resettlement and both the eu relocation programmes. so far switzerland informally participates in easo activities. putting in place this working arrangement will allow both easo and switzerland to formalise the collaboration. i am in favour of this.
in writing. – voted in favour as it is a positive move for human rights.
in writing. ‒ i chose to vote for this report. switzerland has already agreed to participate voluntarily in the eu resettlement programme and both the eu relocation programmes. switzerland informally participates in european asylum support office (easo) activities, so putting in place this working arrangement will allow the easo and switzerland to formalise their collaboration. it is an important step forward in helping with the resettlement and relocation of dispersed people in the european geographical region.
in writing. ‒ i am supportive of switzerland voluntarily participating in the eu resettlement and eu relocation programme.
in writing. – i voted in favour of this agreement which provides for visa-free travel for the citizens of the european union and for the citizens of dominica when travelling to the territory of the other contracting party for a maximum period of 90 days in any 180-day period. the visa waiver covers all categories of persons (ordinary, diplomatic, service/official and special passport holders) travelling for all kinds of purposes, except for the purpose of carrying out a paid activity. whilst ireland is not party to this agreement and therefore not subject to its provisions, the intentions are nonetheless very positive and progressive. most irish citizens are quite aware of the benefits that this type of agreement brings to citizens of a country as we have a somewhat similar agreement with the us. it was for these reasons that i voted in favour of this agreement.
in writing. ‒ i supported this vote because the agreements will encourage people-to-people contacts, boost tourism, and invigorate business between the eu and these countries
in writing. – i voted in favour as visa liberalisation will simplify travel for businesspeople, facilitate investment and intensify economic links among businesses.
in writing. ‒ i voted for this agreement because the waiver of short-stay visas simultaneously represents a culmination of the deepening of relations between the european union and the commonwealth of dominica and is an additional way of stepping up economic and cultural relations and intensifying political dialogue on various issues, including human rights and fundamental freedoms. dominica, which is a small island developing country, is making considerable efforts to diversify its economy and has real potential for growth, particularly in tourism and the production of geothermal energy. this agreement will encourage tourism and will help to intensify trade and investment relations. visa liberalisation will simplify travel for businesspeople, facilitate investment and intensify economic links among businesses.
in writing. – i voted in favour of this agreement which is aimed at improving economic and cultural relations and intensifying political dialogue. whilst ireland is not party to this agreement and therefore not subject to its provisions, the intentions are nonetheless very positive and progressive. it was for these reasons that i voted in favour of this agreement.
in writing. ‒ i supported this vote because the agreements will encourage people-to-people contacts, boost tourism, and invigorate business between the eu and these countries
in writing. – i voted in favour of the agreement on visa liberalisation because it will simplify travel for businesspeople, facilitate investment and intensify economic links among businesses.
in writing. ‒ i voted for this agreement because the waiver of short-stay visas simultaneously represents a culmination of the deepening of relations between the european union and the republic of vanuatu and is an additional way of stepping up economic and cultural relations and intensifying political dialogue on various issues, including human rights and fundamental freedoms. politically, vanuatu is a stable parliamentary democracy, and the most recent elections, in 2012, were described by international observers as free and fair. fundamental rights and freedoms are protected by the constitution and generally respected in practice. the european union’s political dialogue with vanuatu on this subject emphasises preventing torture, combating corruption and promoting political participation and the development of civil society. this agreement will make it possible to maintain the dialogue and to cooperate on such issues as promoting human rights and combating gender violence.
in writing. – i voted in favour of this agreement which provides for visa-free travel for the citizens of the european union and for the citizens of trinidad and tobago when travelling to the territory of the other contracting party for a maximum period of 90 days in any 180-day period. the visa waiver covers all categories of persons (ordinary, diplomatic, service/official and special passport holders) travelling for all kinds of purposes, except for the purpose of carrying out a paid activity. whilst ireland is not party to this agreement and therefore not subject to its provisions, the intentions are nonetheless very positive and progressive. most irish citizens are quite aware of the benefits that this type of agreement brings to citizens of a country as we have a somewhat similar agreement with the us. it was for these reasons that i voted in favour of this agreement.
in writing. ‒ i supported this vote because the agreements will encourage people-to-people contacts, boost tourism, and invigorate business between the eu and these countries
in writing. – i voted in favour because visa liberalisation will simplify travel for businesspeople, facilitate investment and intensify economic links among businesses.
in writing. ‒ i supported the vote for this agreement. as regards the political and institutional situation in trinidad and tobago, civil and political rights are guaranteed by the constitution and respected in the country. the republic of trinidad and tobago is a stable, democratic country, which, like the european union, defends the values and principles of democracy, good governance and respect for human rights and the rule of law. its high governance standards and its good practices in this regard afford every reason to continue the development of our relations with the country. this agreement will increase tourism and help to intensify trade and investment relations, the eu being ranked second among the trading partners of trinidad and tobago. the visa waiver will simplify conditions for travel by businesspeople and will facilitate investment. the republic of trinidad and tobago has one of the most dynamic and prosperous economies in caricom, because of the oil and gas resources, the high levels of direct investment and growing tourism.
in writing. – i voted in favour of this agreement which provides for visa-free travel for the citizens of the european union and for the citizens of samoa when travelling to the territory of the other contracting party for a maximum period of 90 days in any 180-day period. the visa waiver covers all categories of persons (ordinary, diplomatic, service/official and special passport holders) travelling for all kinds of purposes, except for the purpose of carrying out a paid activity. whilst ireland is not party to this agreement and therefore not subject to its provisions, the intentions are nonetheless very positive and progressive. most irish citizens are quite aware of the benefits that this type of agreement brings to citizens of a country as we have a somewhat similar agreement with the us. it was for these reasons that i voted in favour of this agreement.
in writing. ‒ i supported this vote because the agreements will encourage people-to-people contacts, boost tourism, and invigorate business between the eu and these countries
in writing. – i voted in favour because visa liberalisation will simplify travel for business people, facilitate investment and intensify economic links among businesses.
in writing. ‒ i chose to vote for this agreement because a the waiver of short-stay visas simultaneously represents a culmination of the deepening of relations between the european union and the independent state of samoa and is an additional way of stepping up economic and cultural relations and intensifying political dialogue on various issues, including human rights and fundamental freedoms. samoa has one of the most dynamic economies of all the pacific islands. two thirds of the work force is employed in agriculture, which accounts for 90% of exports. generally, trade and investment between the eu and the pacific countries remain weak both as regards their value and in relative terms, but they have strong potential for development. the visa waiver agreement could in particular have a positive impact on investment and on the development of tourism.
in writing. – i voted in favour of this agreement which provides for visa-free travel for the citizens of the european union and for the citizens of grenada when travelling to the territory of the other contracting party for a maximum period of 90 days in any 180-day period. the visa waiver covers all categories of persons (ordinary, diplomatic, service/official and special passport holders) travelling for all kinds of purposes, except for the purpose of carrying out a paid activity. whilst ireland is not party to this agreement and therefore not subject to its provisions, the intentions are nonetheless very positive and progressive. most irish citizens are quite aware of the benefits that this type of agreement brings to citizens of a country as we have a somewhat similar agreement with the us. it was for these reasons that i voted in favour of this agreement.
in writing. ‒ i supported this vote because the agreements will encourage people-to-people contacts, boost tourism, and invigorate business between the eu and these countries
in writing. – i voted in favour because i believe it will help citizens in need as a result of globalisation.
in writing. ‒ i chose to vote for this agreement. as regards the political and institutional situation, the country stresses its commitment to human rights and is committed to improving its human rights machinery. recent proposals for constitutional reform to promote and protect human rights, and the legislative reforms which have been undertaken, particularly the adoption of the new law on family violence and a new law on child protection, show that grenada is resolved to incorporate into its national law the principles on which international human rights instruments are based. grenada is a stable, democratic country, which, like the european union, defends the values and principles of democracy, good governance and respect for human rights and the rule of law. the conclusion of this agreement will make it possible to step up cooperation and intensify dialogue in many fields, including that of human rights.
in writing. – i voted in favour of this agreement which provides for visa-free travel for the citizens of the european union and for the citizens of timor-leste when travelling to the territory of the other contracting party for a maximum period of 90 days in any 180-day period. the visa waiver covers all categories of persons (ordinary, diplomatic, service/official and special passport holders) travelling for all kinds of purposes, except for the purpose of carrying out a paid activity. whilst ireland is not party to this agreement and therefore not subject to its provisions, the intentions are nonetheless very positive and progressive. most irish citizens are quite aware of the benefits that this type of agreement brings to citizens of a country as we have a somewhat similar agreement with the us. it was for these reasons that i voted in favour of this agreement.
in writing. ‒ i supported this vote because the agreements will encourage people-to-people contacts, boost tourism, and invigorate business between the eu and these countries.
in writing. – i voted in favour because visa liberalisation will simplify travel for business people, facilitate investment and intensify economic links among businesses.
in writing. ‒ i voted for this agreement because a short-stay visa waiver agreement represents an opportunity to intensify economic relations and develop tourism. tourism in particular is a key sector for the development of timor-leste, which may attract european citizens both as tourists and as investors. the eu currently ranks third among the trade partners of the pacific countries, behind australia and china. despite that, the eu remains in sixth place in the league table of exporters to timor-leste. the visa waiver is therefore an additional incentive for european entrepreneurs and investors.
in writing. – i voted in favour of this agreement which provides for visa-free travel for the citizens of the european union and for the citizens of saint lucia when travelling to the territory of the other contracting party for a maximum period of 90 days in any 180-day period. the visa waiver covers all categories of persons (ordinary, diplomatic, service/official and special passport holders) travelling for all kinds of purposes, except for the purpose of carrying out a paid activity. whilst ireland is not party to this agreement and therefore not subject to its provisions, the intentions are nonetheless very positive and progressive. most irish citizens are quite aware of the benefits that this type of agreement brings to citizens of a country as we have a somewhat similar agreement with the us. it was for these reasons that i voted in favour of this agreement.
in writing. ‒ i supported this vote because the agreements will encourage people-to-people contacts, boost tourism, and invigorate business between the eu and these countries.
in writing. – i voted in favour as visa liberalisation will simplify travel for business people, facilitate investment and intensify economic links among businesses.
in writing. ‒ i voted for this report because an agreement on the waiver of short-stay visas simultaneously represents a culmination of the deepening of relations between the european union and saint lucia and is an additional way of stepping up economic and cultural relations and intensifying political dialogue on various issues, including human rights and fundamental freedoms. saint lucia is a young country, with limited resources and a small population, which has nonetheless succeeded in attaining or even exceeding some of the millennium development goals, thereby attesting to its commitment to fundamental rights. although its economy is relatively small compared with that of other caribbean countries and is mainly based on farming, and despite its vulnerability to external shocks, saint lucia is seeking to create an environment favourable to investment and development of the private sector. saint lucia is one of the highest ranked caribbean island countries in terms of the ease with which business can be done. the country is also increasingly trying to develop tourism, which is gradually replacing its previously flourishing agriculture. this being so, this agreement will make it possible to step up relations further between the two parties, to impart fresh impetus to trade and to increase tourism.
in writing. – i voted in favour of this agreement which provides for visa-free travel for the citizens of the european union and for the citizens of saint vincent when travelling to the territory of the other contracting party for a maximum period of 90 days in any 180-day period. the visa waiver covers all categories of persons (ordinary, diplomatic, service/official and special passport holders) travelling for all kinds of purposes, except for the purpose of carrying out a paid activity. whilst ireland is not party to this agreement and therefore not subject to its provisions, the intentions are nonetheless very positive and progressive. most irish citizens are quite aware of the benefits that this type of agreement brings to citizens of a country as we have a somewhat similar agreement with the us. it was for these reasons that i voted in favour of this agreement.
in writing. ‒ i supported this vote because the agreements will encourage people-to-people contacts, boost tourism, and invigorate business between the eu and these countries.
in writing. – i voted in favour because visa liberalisation will simplify travel for business people, facilitate investment and intensify economic links among businesses.
in writing. ‒ i decided to support this agreement as the short-stay visas simultaneously represent a culmination of the deepening of relations between the european union and saint vincent and the grenadines and are an additional way of stepping up economic and cultural relations and intensifying political dialogue on various issues, including human rights and fundamental freedoms. in the economic sphere, saint vincent and the grenadines has been through a difficult period, marked in particular by natural disasters and deterioration in the terms under which its main agricultural product, the banana, is exported. these facts have acted as a brake on the country’s economic recovery and have seriously damaged its tourism. nonetheless, in recent years saint vincent and the grenadines has achieved positive socioeconomic progress. thanks to the macroeconomic policies pursued, saint vincent and the grenadines has improved its foreign-trade performance and has been able to initiate with success a programme to diversify its economy, which is still focused on bananas, but also accompanied by measures to increase the volume of exports, boost tourism and improve the level of social development. this agreement will make it possible to step up relations further between the two parties and to impart fresh impetus to trade.
in writing. – i abstained on this vote on the ground of human rights violations, particularly for workers, migrant workers and women. whilst this report was concerned with a visa waiver, it must be noted that the united arab emirates has an appalling record on human rights. as human rights watch claimed recently: ‘the uae uses its affluence to mask the government’s serious human rights problems. the government arbitrarily detains individuals it perceives as posing a threat, and a new counterterrorism law poses a further threat to dissidents and rights activists. security forces have been implicated in torturing detainees in pre-trial detention, authorities have invoked repressive laws to prosecute critics of the government. labour abuses persist, as migrant construction workers facing serious exploitation, including on one of the country’s most high-profile projects. female domestic workers are excluded from regulations that apply to workers in other sectors.’ due to these human rights concerns, i abstained on this vote.
in writing. ‒ i supported this vote because the agreements will encourage people-to-people contacts, boost tourism, and invigorate business between the eu and these countries.
in writing. ‒ i voted for this agreement as the waiver of short-stay visas represent a culmination of the deepening of relations between the european union and the united arab emirates and is an additional way of stepping up economic and cultural relations and intensifying political dialogue on various issues, including human rights and fundamental freedoms. in 2014, around 230 000 emiratis travelled to europe, mainly for purposes of business and more than 150 000 european nationals live in the united arab emirates, the vast majority of whom have seized opportunities to engage in economic activities. some 1.6 million europeans visit the united arab emirates each year. the visa waiver agreement will therefore enable many europeans to visit their relatives in the united arab emirates more easily or to travel for professional or tourist purposes, while the same is true for emiratis.
in writing. – this vote concerns a vote on the memorandum of understanding between the office for harmonisation in the internal market and eurojust. the intention of this report is to enable the two bodies to exchange information more easily. however, i have grave concerns with bodies such as the office for harmonisation in the internal market. at a time, when austerity policies are still continuing to decimate communities across eu member states, much required resources should be directed towards boosting employment and public investment as opposed to advancing quangos. my mandate in europe is to represent the interests of the irish people and it does not serve the interests of the irish taxpayer to have their hard earned taxes squandered through the advancement of futile, self-serving, federalist bodies. therefore, whilst a technical report, due to the political nature behind such, i voted against this report.
in writing. ‒ this move fosters cooperation between eurojust and ohim in compliance with their respective mandates.
in writing. – taking into account the technical character of the report and the safeguards regarding the personal data i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because i fully endorse this approach and calling on the council to be vigilant of the implementation in practice of the data protection guarantee. the purpose of the memorandum of understanding is to foster cooperation between eurojust and the office for harmonisation, in compliance with their respective mandates.
in writing. – i voted in favour of this report which was a purely technical report. it is a revision of the regulation to ensure that member states deliver their contributions with no significant delay and it also clarifies interest rate rules and other technical issues. moreover, it increases transparency and accuracy by reporting regularly on the calculation process regarding data for vat and gni adjustments. however, i wish to note my party’s concerns in relation to ireland’s contribution to the eu budget. whilst it is recognised that ireland does contribute to the eu budget through the traditional own resources (customs duties) and there is an obligation to do so, this nonetheless does not negate our concerns with how the eu budget expenditure is financed by member states and how moreover the eu budget is allocated each year. in addition, we have a number of concerns with the proposed financial transaction tax, environmental tax, etc., which we believe are intended to strip a member state of its financial competencies. as irelands is set to become a net contributor to the eu budget, these concerns are set to become more pressing.
in writing. ‒ i consider the commission proposal as appropriate to address the shortcomings of the current regulation and stress the need to avoid political disputes about the timing of payments.
in writing. ‒ i decided to vote for this report as there is a need for efficient rules on how member states make their timely contributions to the union budget available in order to allow the commission to manage its treasury effectively. i agree that these adjustments of contributions should be dealt with as automatically as possible to avoid political interference with the agreed ways of financing the union budget and to limit to a minimum the discretion left to member states as to the timing of their additional contributions resulting from gni adjustments to the union budget.
in writing. – i voted in favour of the waiver of the parliamentary immunity of georgios kyrtsos. georgios kyrtsos who is a greek ppe mep has been accused of non-payment of wages of one of his former employees. however, as the request relates to a time before he was an mep and as there is no accusation of political prosecution and the normal waiver procedures have been applied, then i voted in favour of this procedure.
in writing. – i voted in favour as there is no ground for discrimination or political persecution.
in writing. ‒ i chose to support this report regarding the waving of immunity of georgios kyrtsos who is accused of non-payment of part of the salary of one of his former employees. the accusation relates to part of the 2013 salary of a former employee of two newspaper publishing firms, of which georgios kyrtsos was the manager at the time, and is directed at georgios kyrtsos as the former manager of those firms. the alleged offence clearly has nothing to do with the office of georgios kyrtsos as a member of the european parliament but is rather connected to his former position as manager of two newspaper firms.
in writing. – i voted in favour of the waiver of the parliamentary immunity of stelios kouloglou. it should be noted that the mep concerned is agreeing to the waiver and furthermore, the accusations relate to a time before he was an mep. it relates to an allegation of defamation. however, the mep has stated that the plaintiff withdrew the claim. although, in order to stop the procedure of waiving of the immunity the committee on legal affairs (juri) needs a formal decision from the court which was due to take place in early december but could not take place. having taken into account all of the facts, i voted in favour of this waiver.
in writing. ‒ i supported this report which requests the waiver of immunity of stelios kouloglou, member of the european parliament, in connection with a possible legal action concerning an alleged offence. stelios kouloglou is accused of libel and defamation of prison staff in patras. the accusation relates to statements which stelios kouloglou is claimed to have made to the press in 2010 about the probity of certain members of the prison staff in patras, at a time when he was a journalist chiefly producing television reports.
in writing. – i voted in favour of this report which was concerned with an application to the european globalisation adjustment fund. the european globalisation fund (egf) is a commission programme that provides training and employment supports to redundant workers. however, i wish to note with concern that millions of euros earmarked for redundant workers from the egf is set to be returned unspent to the commission. up to eur 3 million could be left unspent with 60% of that being returned to brussels. this is absolutely unacceptable and highlights the irish government’s lack of action or care on such vital funding issues. this apathetic and incompetent attitude is unacceptable.
in writing. ‒ i supported this application as i believe it is important that we support those who lost their jobs in the area with retraining, upskilling and diversification.
in writing. ‒ i was pleased to support this application for assistance for eur 4 372 000 from the egf for some 1 603 workers made redundant from the computer programming and consultancy sector across the autumn of 2014 and spring of 2015. the redundancies concerned 69 enterprises with almost half of them occurring in microsoft mobile. the ict sector, while growing globally, has been badly affected by globalisation across the eu and particularly in finland where in 2008, the technology industry employed a total of 326 000 people but the number of people employed by such companies in 2014 was 276 000 equalling an average decline of about 3% or 10 000 workers annually. the previous decisions of nokia and microsoft towards offshoring, closing down production and stopping development work in finland has had a significant impact on downstream providers and the finnish software industry in general. the assistance will go towards providing the redundant workers with job-seeking training, individual job coaching, vocational re-education and training in sectors with high employment and start-up grants and the promotion of entrepreneurship among other supports.
in writing. ‒ i chose to vote for this report because in recent years the distribution of ict sector employment between the union and other economies has developed to the detriment of the union and underlines that while in 2008, the technology industry employed a total of 326 000 people in finland, the number of people employed by such companies in 2014 was 276 000, which corresponds to an average decline per year of about 3 % (10 000 workers). the events giving rise to these redundancies are the developments affecting nokia in recent years, which have had a major impact on the ict sector in finland. whereas developing and designing operating systems for nokia mobile phones used to employ thousands of finnish people, these functions have now been transferred to countries outside europe. these redundancies will further aggravate the unemployment situation in the ict sector in regions struggling with a high unemployment rate. the proposed measures, which aim at creating new businesses, will foster entrepreneurship and services for new entrepreneurs.
in writing. ‒ the main objective of the proposal is to foster innovation and economic growth by making trademark registration systems all over the eu more accessible and efficient. the revision of the regulation aims to adapt the terminology of the lisbon treaty and the provisions to the common approach on union decentralised agencies, to streamline procedures to apply for and register a european trademark, to increase legal certainty by clarifying provisions, to establish an appropriate framework for cooperation between ohim and national offices for developing common tools, and to align the framework to article 290 tfeu.
in writing. – knowing that the defence of industrial and enterprises marks are important, but also being very suspicious and careful with the broadening possibilities of blocking goods through customs procurement our shadow i believed that it was preferable to abstain on the whole package.
in writing. ‒ i supported the proposal of the council.
in writing. ‒ the idea of the proposal is to make trademark registration across the eu more accessible and efficient. this is to be done by increasing legal certainty by clarifying provisions and establishing better cooperation between ohim (office for harmonisation in the internal market) and national offices. the laws of the ms relating to trademarks were partially harmonised by directives 89/104/eec and 2008/95/ec. the proposal will further that harmonisation. ireland broadly supports the measures contained within the proposals, which were generally welcomed by our stakeholders, as it was considered that they would constitute positive developments from the perspective of the likely business interests in ireland, as it is believed that innovative export oriented companies require a predictable and consistent legal and regulatory environment across europe within which they can exploit the competitive advantage of their intellectual property rights, without undue expense and onerous administrative burden.
in writing. – knowing that the defence of industrial and enterprise marks are important, but also being very suspicious and careful with the broadening possibilities of blocking goods through customs procurement our shadow i believed that it was preferable to abstain on the whole package.
in writing. ‒ i supported the proposal of the council.
in writing. – i voted in favour of this report which contained a number of important provisions. specifically, there were progressive provisions in the context of countering iuu fishing and better scrutiny of super trawlers, also known as freezer factory vessels. moreover, there were important provisions which acknowledged both the environmental and economic-social aspects of fisheries and for these reasons, i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ the convention on future multilateral cooperation in north east atlantic fisheries to which the european union is a contracting party aims to ensure the long term conservation and optimum utilisation of the fishery resources of the north east atlantic area, providing sustainable, environmental and social benefits.
in writing. ‒ i voted for this report because the measures provided will ensure a better long-term conservation and optimum utilisation of fishery resources in the area of the north-east atlantic. this will bring lasting results for the environment and also help create positive results in terms of social aspects. the long term conservation and optimum utilisation of the fishery resources of the north-east atlantic area is crucial for the future of the eu.
in writing. ‒ i supported this report as the proposal to extend the autonomous trade measures for western balkan countries and territories participating in the stabilisation and association process (sap) for another five years should be welcomed. this preferential trade regime has contributed to an increase in western balkan exports to the eu. the eu was, in 2013, the region’s largest trading partner both in terms of imports (72.7%) and exports (81.8%). together with the bilateral agreements in place, these trade preferences support economic integration with the eu and hence foster political stability and economic progress in the entire region. these measures should also be seen in the wider context of our policies regarding the western balkan countries, our ultimate goal being to bring them closer to the eu. the suspension of the trade preferences for bosnia and herzegovina should be seen as an incentive to resolve the current disagreement with the eu over the adaptation of the interim agreement.
in writing. ‒ i supported this report because the vitally important information exchanged could include specialist knowledge, general situation reports, results of strategic analysis, information on criminal investigation procedures, information on crime-prevention methods, training activities, and the provision of advice and support in individual criminal investigations. there seem to be clear operational needs for europol to cooperate with the united arab emirates. according to europol, the united arab emirates are increasingly relevant in the fight against organized crime as that country is becoming a growing hub for economic and financial crime. proceeds from criminal activities such as vat fraud, missing trader intra community (mtic) fraud and money laundering have been reinvested in the united arab emirates and key criminals involved in these frauds have sought refuge there. this strategic cooperation agreement with the united arab emirates would aid and reinforce the fight against financial fraud and would contribute to enhancing international cooperation in the field of financial investigation and other relevant criminal matters.
mr president, i voted in favour of amendment 59 because i believe that hydraulic fracturing, or fracking, is not a technology we should be pursuing at european level. apart from anything else, we have just concluded a climate deal in paris which seeks to limit co2 emissions into the atmosphere. so it seems to me, therefore, nonsensical to want to invest in new technology to extract fossil fuels by fracking. apart from the public health and the environmental risks such as possible leakage of methane, further production of co2 and the possible leakage of benzene into watercourses, it seems to me that, from an economic perspective, fracking is no longer promising. indeed i wonder if it ever was, even in the us. finally, i want to say that i fully recognise and support that the energy mix for any member state is primarily a matter for that member state. but it is my strongly-held view that, from an environmental and public health perspective, and now an economic perspective, fracking should not be part of our energy mix in the eu.
in writing. ‒ this report reacts to the commission’s communication on a european energy union. the draft report addresses several dimensions of the strategy. particular emphasis is put on aspects relating to energy security, such as the need to diversify energy sources and supply routes. it also refers to initiatives necessary to accomplish the completion of the internal energy market.
in writing. ‒ i voted for this report as the eu imports more than half of all the energy it consumes. its import dependency is particularly high for crude oil (more than 90 %), natural gas (66 %) and hard coal (72 %), and the total import bill is more than eur 400 billion in 2013. the goal of a resilient energy union with an ambitious climate policy at its core is to ensure the transition to a new energy model which empowers households and businesses to produce and consume secure, sustainable, competitive and affordable energy. long-term stable regulatory framework is needed to create economic growth and jobs and ensure the eu's leading role in these areas. the energy union should be a new energy model for europe, based on strong cross-cutting legislative grounds and strong objectives.
in writing. ‒ i voted in in favour of this report as it aims to strengthen the security of energy supply and increase energy efficiency at an affordable cost.
mr president, i supported this report, but there are one or two issues i would like to highlight. firstly, the report says that the ambitious energy targets should be agreed by the regions. this is very important because a one-size-fits-all approach to reaching the 10% target certainly will not work everywhere. it is important that we have demand-led targets, rather than generating capacity targets, as this could mean that we would have over-building of infrastructure in certain regions. secondly, this report clearly references the need to use best available technology (bat) and this clearly means that undergrounding should be part of the mix. indeed, it mentions the need for local acceptance, which is crucial to ensure that we can meet our interconnector targets. otherwise projects can face long delays and planning appeals, and the cost will often exceed the original higher cost of undergrounding. finally, the process of conducting transparent assessments when leading to the list of projects of common interest is crucially important and should be carried out on a cost—neutral basis at arm’s length from the promoters.
in writing. ‒ the report recognises the 10% interconnection target as an important step in the right direction. it stresses that interconnectivity is one of the key preconditions for completing the internal electricity market. with regard to those member states that have not yet reached 10%, the report states that more should be done to assist them.
in writing. ‒ i chose to vote for this report because the 10% target which is to be achieved by 2020 is recognised as a valuable target and an important step in the right direction. with regards to those member states that have not yet reached 10%, the report states that more should be done to assist them. special attention must be given to projects that address the most significant gaps in the integrated eu electricity market.
in writing. ‒ i supported this report as it recognises the 10% interconnection target as an important step in the right direction and that interconnectivity is one of the key preconditions for completing the internal electricity market.
mr president, i was also pleased to support this report on microfinance, particularly as i was the shadow rapporteur for my group, alde, when we concluded negotiations on the very first tranche of microfinance facilities some years back. microfinance is for those whom the banks reject, the people to whom the banks say no. that is why i support the call to the commission to focus its efforts to improve access to microfinance for potentially excluded persons, and that includes: the unemployed, young people, those who have low skills, people with disabilities, and, crucially, migrants and refugees. indeed, i was very pleased to see that the votes on migrants and refugees were carried because they will often find themselves at the bottom of the list.
in writing. ‒ the union’s microfinance facility was created to build on the positive impact microloans have had on local economies in developing countries. in this context, eur 205 million has been made available to boost small businesses. the facility does not directly finance micro-enterprises, but rather enables participating microcredit providers, so-called intermediaries, to increase their lending, thanks to improved guarantees based on refinancing under progress microfinance. the facility helps people to realise their potential as entrepreneurs, develop new skills through training and monitoring, and find jobs.
in writing. ‒ i voted for this report due to the fact that the aim of the european progress microfinance facility created in 2010 with total funding of eur 205 million, is to give socially and financially disadvantaged people in europe a chance to build a decent life. progress microfinance is currently available in only 22 of the 28 member states. the reasons for this incomplete coverage are the varying degrees of economic development, varying degrees of market interest and the current legislative basis in each country. the facility helps people to realise their potential as entrepreneurs, develop new skills through training and monitoring and find jobs. since the facility is aimed at target groups such as the unemployed, those claiming social security benefits, immigrants and people who cannot get conventional bank loans, it is primarily a socio-political instrument, providing loans of up to eur 25,000.
in writing. – the cfp as it currently stands and the provisions contained within this report, call for the reduction of what little unilateral capacity member states have to intervene and co-ordinate on such matters. this is unacceptable, specifically because the fisheries policy to date in the eu has dismally failed to protect the fishing industry. moreover, the report makes little to no reference to small scale and artisanal fisheries, most of which have suffered greatly under the cfp. i am very supportive of the general ecological principles behind the management plans but due to the reasons outlined above. i had no choice but to abstain on this report.
in writing. ‒ the common fisheries policy was reformed in 2013 so as to get the maximum yields of fish whilst also being sustainable. the best way to achieve this is through technical measures and multiannual plans. the report proposes technical measures are introduced to prevent catches of juveniles and other by catches. multiannual plans are concerned with the levels of fishing of a particular stock. there are 11 multiannual plans in the eu and they have to include a maximum sustainable yield target and a deadline for achieving it, discard ban and compulsory landing implementation provisions, remedial safeguards and review clauses. the report calls for fishermen to be closely involved in the decision making process. european commission is expected to present in early 2016 the proposal for a new framework for technical measures and this report is pre-empting that.
in writing. ‒ i voted for this report as in order to ensure the implementation of the cfp objectives, future technical measures should be simplified in order to remove any contradiction and/or duplication contained in a clearly structured legal framework and based on solid scientific data reviewed by peers. it is necessary that the technical measures should include specific provisions on the use of certain fishing gear in order to protect vulnerable habitats and marine species. additionally the technical measures should ensure that destructive and non-selective fishing gear is not used, and that the general use of explosive and poisonous substances should be prohibited. there is an urgent need to establish a coherent set of technical measures for each of the three main basins, taking account of the specific nature of each, where union decisions may have a significant impact on the recovery of fish stocks and the protection of ecosystems and on the sustainable management of shared fish stocks.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report as it seeks to include the fisherman in the decision making process of the common fisheries policy.
mr president, i was privileged to be one of the official parliamentarian representatives in paris, and indeed it was wonderful to see it having a positive outcome. for that, great credit is due to the french, who organised everything excellently, and also to commissioner arias cañete and his colleagues, who played a very important part. we were more or less sidelined in copenhagen, but on this occasion we were centre stage. if you look at the proposals that came through parliament, by and large, they were accepted. and there was recognition right across the world for what europe is doing. now we have to move on and deliver, particularly for the people we met, like the indigenous peoples and the small island countries, because they are under an immediate threat. that is why we need to move as quickly as possible to 1.5°c, rather than 2°c. for us, we should complete the energy union as quickly as possible and become the renewables capital of the world. in my own country, we have a great opportunity to progress with ocean energy. there is a lot of research being done on that right now and that too can be wonderful.
on behalf of the gue/ngl group.– mr president, i would like to thank the rapporteurs and the shadow rapporteurs for their efforts. there are a number of positive aspects in this report, specifically the focus on tax transparency and the need to address tax avoidance tools such as patent boxes. however, i have to say i am fundamentally concerned with the remarks that i have already heard again here tonight that the intention behind this report is to introduce tax harmony across europe by the back door. it does not serve the interests of, for example, ordinary irish people to have sovereignty relinquished through attempted tax harmonisation. it is absolutely and fundamentally the right of governments in each state to legislate in the best interests of their people, particularly the setting of tax rates. for our part, my party will continue to demand that genuine and credible actions are taken around corporate tax evasion, specifically in relation to the evidence which suggests that the effective rate of tax paid by multinationals and large corporations is in fact much lower than the 12.5% headline rate in ireland. mr bayet and others said that whether groups do or do not support tax harmonisation is almost irrelevant: the fact of the matter is that it is on the public record that citizens do not support it. in fact, they have stated time and time again their view that all matters relating to the setting of tax rates must remain a matter of national competency and the european parliament has no right to attempt to attack tax sovereignty in this way. therefore i regret to say i will be unable to support this report.
member of the commission.– madam president, there are currently intense political discussions going on in the european institutions and in the member states about the free movement of european citizens and the entitlement of mobile citizens to social benefits. free movement and adequate social protection for mobile citizens are core values of the european union. they directly affect the lives of millions. therefore, i am glad to have the opportunity today to have an exchange with you here in parliament. since i took office as commissioner for employment, social affairs, skills and labour mobility more than a year ago, i have listened carefully to the very different views that exist on these matters. those exchanges with many people and representatives of many organisations, many member states and many parliaments have convinced me that, irrespective of the differences, there is also a lot of common ground in what most people want. fundamentally, the right to move across borders, to travel, to study, to work or to retire is not put into question. on the contrary, it is considered to be one of the major achievements of the european union and a right that is cherished by many. but people want this right of free movement to be exercised in a way which is fair for everybody. they want rules which are clear, fair and enforced on the ground, and it is precisely our job as lawmakers to provide for such rules. the juncker commission has committed in its political guidelines to reviewing the existing rules on social security coordination and the posting of workers, and to table legislative proposals for amendments where appropriate. we are sticking to that commitment. we repeat it and operationalise it further in the commission’s work programme for 2016, announcing proposals for a revision of the social security coordination regulations, as well as a targeted revision of the posting of workers directive to implement the principle of equal pay for equal work. we will also outline our priorities to support and facilitate labour mobility across europe. we are finalising the technical work on the package. when exactly we will be tabling it also depends on the political context. as you know, the european council will this week discuss security alongside migration, the internal market, the deepening of the emu and the uk – all topics related directly or indirectly to labour mobility. the commission will re-evaluate, after the european council, when is the right time to table its labour mobility package. my ambition is for it to be a balanced package taking the interests of all 28 member states – and, of course, of all their citizens – into account. in the meantime, i am at your disposal – of you all – to continue our exchange, which i value a lot and will take into account. parliament will have its institutional role to play in the legislative process once the initiative – or the initiatives, because it is a package – are on the table. so let us prepare further that process now. i am available for questions.
on behalf of the alde group. – madam president, like many other speakers, i regret the delay in the mobility package but i can live with it for now, because of course it is connected to brexit, and many of the issues that are crucial to the mobility package also play an important role in the negotiations with the uk government. free movement is an individual right of every european citizen and, as such, it must be protected, but this should not blind us to the fact that there are pluses and minuses to labour mobility. yes, it can provide opportunities for job seekers and it can help to deal with issues like labour shortages and skills shortages. but equally there can be a brain drain from sending countries and also, if in a receiving country there are significant numbers of posted workers arriving in a particular sector, it can have the impact of driving down wages. i believe that our job as parliamentarians is to act to mitigate the bad effects and promote the good effects of labour mobility. we need to recognise that in some cases our legislation needs updating, either to take account of new realities – and there are many in the european union – or to deal with the unintended consequences of previous legislation. i presume none of us in this parliament think we get it right first time, every time, or indeed that past parliaments did. as always it depends on politics: in the commission, in parliament and in the council. so that is three politics: politics, politics and more politics. right now, i think we need to put our minds to finding workable pragmatic solutions to the challenges we face and are likely to face in the future. our citizens deserve that – they expect it and they deserve it. finally, your comments on equal work for equal pay in the same place. i agree with you on that because it is well-established in european legislation and, as you have said yourself on many occasions, we do it for part-time workers, for fixed-time workers, for seasonal workers, for temporary agency workers. so the question i want answered is: why do we not do it for posted workers?
on behalf of the alde group.– madam president, first of all i would like to congratulate the commissioner for doing what she said she would do, namely to introduce a european accessibility act. i think it is an important step towards helping to ensure that more products and services are accessible to people with disabilities. commissioner, as you said yourself, by 2020 we expect to have 120 million people in the eu with some form of disability. therefore, not only will this act make more goods and services accessible to people with disabilities, but it also makes economic sense – more customers, so better for business. what i find positive about this proposal is the wide range of services: from computers to banking services, from e-books to smartphones, and from television equipment to certain types of transport services. they are all included in this proposal. equally, as you said yourself, while the technical solutions are not detailed, what is here are the features that the specific goods and services need to have in place in order to be accessible. they are clearly outlined. i think this type of flexibility is important for manufacturers and businesses but, equally, we need to ensure that accessibility is foreseen at the design stage. we have ratified the un convention on the rights of persons with disabilities and, in order for it to be meaningful, accessible products and services are a precondition. finally, we are fast becoming a digital society and this act can help future-proof social and digital inclusion.
a uachtaráin, cuireann an chaint faoi brexit i gcuimhne dom dán i mo theanga dhúchais féin a deireann: "what is without don tea without nach mbaineann without do" (i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not happy about brexit). and if one of them is not related to you, then the other one is related to you. but of course, they're going to make a decision at the end of the day. i entered the union on the same day and i hope to go to bhfanfaidh an bhreatain in the union an fhad agus a bheimidne ann, agus is sin go deo. if i had a brother in the united kingdom, i would go to the sea in ireland, and to the churches and regions in the north, especially. however, it would not be appropriate to make a british language the de facto language of the union. i therefore ask the commission to listen to david cameron and to try to bring the laws into line.
the next item is the vote. (for the results and other details of the vote: see minutes)
that concludes the vote.
in writing. – i voted against the extension of the term of office of the chairperson of the european banking authority as i have grave concerns with the eba. a number of these regulatory bodies were set up after the financial crash, the stated aim being to regulate the financial markets so that another financial crash would not happen. of course, robust regulation is required but there are critical concerns with these bodies. there is a huge democratic deficit running through these bodies and, moreover, a number of legal concerns have been voiced. the bodies have very fragile legal foundations and a number of legal experts have stated that the setting-up of such bodies was done outside of the confines of eu treaty law. to explain simply, when an eu body is being set up, you have to first go back to the primary treaties which founded the eu and look at the treaty provisions. if there is no provision in the treaty to set up such an initiative, then it can be declared as ultra vires, i.e. be outside of eu law and have no legal foundation. therefore, it was for these reasons that i voted against the extension of the eba.
in writing. – i voted against as i believe this position should not exist in the first place.
in writing. ‒ i voted to support this report as i believe the decision to approve the proposal for the extension of the term of office of andrea enria as chairperson of the eba by another five-year term is appropriate.
in writing. – i voted against the extension of the term of office of the chairperson of the european insurance and occupational pensions authority (eiopa). a number of these regulatory bodies were set up after the financial crash, the stated aim being to regulate the financial markets so that another financial crash would not happen. of course, robust regulation is required but there are critical concerns with these bodies. there is a huge democratic deficit running through these bodies and moreover, a number of legal concerns have been voiced. the bodies have very fragile legal foundations and a number of legal experts have stated that the setting up of such bodies was done outside of the confines of eu treaty law. to explain simply, when an eu body is being set up, you have to first go back to the primary treaties which founded the eu and look at the treaty provisions. if there is no provision in the treaty to set up such an initiative, then it can be declared as ultra vires i.e. be outside of eu law and have no legal foundation. therefore, it was for these reasons that i voted against the extension of the eiopa.
in writing. – i voted against as i believe this position should not exist in the first place.
in writing. ‒ i chose to vote for this report because approving the proposal for the extension of the term of office of gabriel bernardino as chairperson of the eiopa by another five-year term is in my view the correct decision.
in writing. – i voted against the extension of the term of office of the chairperson of the european securities and markets authority (esma) a number of these regulatory bodies were set up after the financial crash, the stated aim being to regulate the financial markets so that another financial crash would not happen. of course, robust regulation is required but there are critical concerns with these bodies. there is a huge democratic deficit running through these bodies and moreover, a number of legal concerns have been voiced. the bodies have very fragile legal foundations and a number of legal experts have stated that the setting up of such bodies was done outside of the confines of eu treaty law. to explain simply, when an eu body is being set up, you have to first go back to the primary treaties which founded the eu and look at the treaty provisions. if there is no provision in the treaty to set up such an initiative, then it can be declared as ultra vires i.e. to be outside of eu law and have no legal foundation. therefore, it was for these reasons that i voted against the extension of the esma.
in writing. – i voted against as i believe this position should not exist in the first place.
in writing. ‒ i voted for this report as i am in favour of approving the proposal for the extension of the term of office of steven maijoor as chairperson of the esma by another five-year term.
in writing. – i voted against the legislative resolution because it is unrealistic.
in writing. ‒ i voted to support this report because i approve the council draft. i also agree that the commission should assess the situation, after the entry into force of the new europol regulation, of the provisions contained in the cooperation agreement, in particular on data protection. lastly i agree the commission should inform parliament and the council of the outcome of this assessment and, if appropriate, submit a recommendation for an authorisation to open international renegotiation of the agreement.
in writing. – i voted in favour as it will is badly needed by the local community in ireland. it is small change in comparison to what we have lost as a result of our eu membership.
in writing. ‒ i was very pleased to support this application for almost half a million euro of european globalisation fund (egf) assistance for workers made redundant from pwa international (pwai). the application concerns 108 workers working in the aircraft maintenance, repair and overhaul sector and a related supplier, between mid-2014 and september of this year. in addition to these workers 108 young people not in employment, education or training will also benefit from the fund, bringing the total number of beneficiaries to 216. the total budget for services to assist the redundant workers in upskilling or retraining to return to work is eur 737 156, with a 60% contribution from the egf of eur 442 293. this has been a most beleaguered sector over recent years with the closures of lufthansa technik and sr technics at dublin airport but we have seen real positive outcomes from assistance from the egf programme for sr technics with 53.45% of beneficiaries back in employment almost a year after the programme finished. the pwai workers have a similar very specific skill set and i hope will have just as positive an outcome from egf assistance.
in writing. ‒ i supported this report due to the fact that that the closure of pwai has had a serious impact on employment and on the local economy based on the pre-existing difficult situation in the area combined with the cumulative effect of three major closures in the aircraft maintenance industry within a short period. ireland specialised in the maintenance, repair and overhaul (mro) sector in the 1990s, which served it well at that time, but made it particularly vulnerable to the recent trend to locate mro activity near centres of global aviation expansion, i.e. asia, and to the adverse impacts of global trade deals. the variety of training measures to be provided to the beneficiaries will be a great boost to the individuals and the local economy.
in writing. – i voted in favour of the resolution as i believe it makes sense from a biodiversity perspective.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this motion for resolution objecting to the draft commission implementing regulation adopting a list of invasive alien species. the regulation deals with the prevention and management of the introduction and spread of invasive alien species. however, i believe, as stated in the resolution, that the draft union list fails to adequately address the problem of invasive alien species in a comprehensive manner, with many of the most problematic invasive species not listed while others without significant impacts are. in order to protect native biodiversity and ecosystem services and minimise the human health and economic impacts that these invasive species could potentially have, it is crucial that the list ensures those with the most significant adverse impacts are listed. an example from my own constituency of an invasive species which is not listed is the asian clam, which is depleting the irish pollan, a freshwater whitefish protected under the habitats directive.
in writing. ‒ i supported this report as invasive alien species are numerous and it is therefore important to ensure that priority is given to addressing the subset of invasive alien species considered to be of eu concern. it is important to ensure that the identification of invasive alien species of eu concern remains proportionate and focuses on species whose inclusion on the eu list would effectively prevent, minimise or mitigate the adverse impact of those species in a cost effective manner. many of the most problematic invasive alien species are not listed, while some species incapable of causing a significant negative impact on biodiversity, ecosystem services, human health or the economy, or for which the measures to be taken would result in disproportionate costs, are listed.
in writing. ‒ i supported this objection as i am concerned that the seriousness of certain invasive alien species has not been taken into account when establishing this list.
in writing. – i voted in favour of the resolution as it aims to prevent the proliferation of gm food.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report as genetically modified maize is harmful for both animal and human health. in order to provide the basis for ensuring a high level of protection of human life and health, animal health and welfare, environment and consumer interests in relation to genetically modified food and feed, whilst ensuring the effective functioning of the internal market, i have chosen to vote against this report.
in writing. ‒ i rejected this objection as i support the efsa and the commission scientific gmo authorisation procedure.
the president, who has made many good points in this report, has put the matter to the vote in the final vote. there was a group in bhfabhar. the reason for this is that the eu is trying to bring its own laws into force in the member states. the commission shall be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 26 to supplement this directive by laying down detailed rules for the application of this directive. but once again, we're being made to go to the wrong place and try to fix everything and get down on the wrong side of the fence. we're not happy without laws. certainly every body has the right to pay what it owes, and it is unthinkable in europe, but it is so in ireland. another issue is the lack of access to justice in the member states.
madam president, unfortunately i was not able to support this report on corporate tax policies either. it has a number of excellent suggestions that i agree with, for example, the issue of public country—by—country reporting for all multinational companies in all sectors. i also support the idea of stricter rules governing firms which give tax advice in order to avoid conflicts of interest. however, i could not support the recommendation for a new approach to international tax arrangements. this recommendation says that the commission should be mandated to negotiate tax agreements with third countries on behalf of the union, instead of the current practice under which bilateral negotiations are conducted which produce sub—optimal results, especially for developing countries. i just cannot support that proposal and it goes further than that because i believe that is beyond the competence of the eu. i also believe it would be unacceptable to a majority of our citizens to see the eu commission negotiate tax agreements with third countries. it is a real pity. this is a good report, but it has gone too far.
in writing. – i was shadow rapporteur of this report and i was proactively involved in seeking to improve the text. i tabled over 30 amendments in order to improve the content of the report and to protect the interests of the irish people. however, whilst i recognise that there were a number of positive aspects of this report, specifically the focus on tax transparency and the need to address tax avoidance tools such as ‘patent boxes’, i am fundamentally concerned that the intention behind this report is to introduce tax harmonisation across europe. it is absolutely and fundamentally the right of the government of each member state to legislate in the best interests of their citizens, particularly in the matter of direct taxation. the intention behind this report has always been to introduce a single legislative proposal for a mandatory common consolidated corporate tax base (ccctb). my mandate on the economic and monetary affairs committee is to put the interests of irish citizens first and foremost and that it does not serve their interests to have our sovereignty relinquished through any attempted tax harmonisation. therefore, i voted against this report and will do on any similar assaults on our economic sovereignty.
in writing. ‒ parliament is rightly signalling a strong message, after the council watered down what were already very minimal proposals by the commission on tax rulings. a truly single market can only function effectively within a more transparent and cooperative corporate taxation framework. country-by-country reporting would represent an important step in the fight against tax evasion and avoidance, through a more transparent tax framework in europe. the european union should ensure that multinationals pay their taxes where they make their profits.
in writing. ‒ i abstained on this vote. member states’ tax measures, particularly those that do not concern corporate tax, are sovereign decisions which should not be subject to scrutiny by other member states.
in writing. – i voted against as i believe that the eu should have no say in ireland’s tax affairs.
in writing. ‒ i chose to abstain on this report due to the fact it contains a number of worrying elements such as calling for a full, mandatory ccctb, calling for member states to inform each other and the commission of any new allowance, relief or incentive which could have a material impact on their effective tax rate, calling for mandatory, public country-by-country reporting for all multinationals and making claims that the ongoing state aid investigations have revealed a lack of transparency in the way state aid rules are applied.
in writing. ‒ i abstained overall on this report as a number of aspects are of a sensitive nature for ireland.
the president, i welcome the report and i have voted in favour of it; my group and i have all voted in favour. gan dabht ar bith is maith an rud is go mbeadh gaol dearfach, láidir againn leis an tsín agus aitheantas a thabhairt di as ucht an dul chun cinn iontach is doing aici maidir lena geilleagar. freisin, it was a pleasure to be with you for a week. i'd have made him a member of parliament, but i'd have to cut him off from china. we should be proud to give them the tools they need to fight climate change; and we should be proud that they are going to die because of the harm they have caused us and will continue to cause us. rud eile nach bhfuil mé róshásta faoi ná imeachtaí is held by an tsín i muir in síne theas: it has to be in accordance with international laws regarding sin laws.
in writing. ‒ in this report, parliament welcomes the 40th anniversary of diplomatic relations between the eu and china as a source of inspiration to strengthen the strategic partnership. it is stressed that the two sides are committed to promoting over the next decade the eu-china comprehensive strategic partnership, which will be mutually beneficial to both the eu and china.
in writing. – i voted against as i believe the eu does not have a role in foreign affairs. ireland has its own foreign affairs department to do that.
in writing. ‒ as this year marks the 40th anniversary of diplomatic relations between the eu and china, this own initiative report, which i voted in favour of, was produced to acknowledge the progress made over the last four decades and to highlight several areas of moderate and deep concern. in particular it reinforced several concerns on human rights, freedom of expression and environmental issues. furthermore, i was happy to see the introduction of several other important issues in the report, including the need to build a greater and consequent cooperation on trade focused on smes between both blocks, the legitimate concern on the unilateral establishment of an air-defence identification zone and the consequent claim over navigational air control within areas claimed by japan and south korea.
in writing. ‒ i chose to support this report due to the fact that 2015 marks the 40th anniversary of diplomatic relations between the eu and china. the eu-china strategic partnership is of key importance to relations between the eu and the people’s republic of china (prc) and to finding mutual answers to a range of global concerns and identifying common interests, such as global and regional security, counter-terrorism, the fight against organised crime, cybersecurity, weapons of mass destruction and nuclear non-proliferation, energy security, global financial and market regulation, climate change and sustainable development, it is also critical in creating a framework to address bilateral concerns between the eu and china.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report as an important milestone in the 40 years of diplomatic relations between the eu and china.
i hope that the report will be useful and that we can prepare for the next meeting in istanbul next year. but in the end, it's the same thing as the law against it, and that's the law against the chinese laws. we are not interfering with the powers of the member states and we are not asking them to pay; we are not interfering with the member states and other bodies and organisations. i don't think i'm going to be right either. freisin, that is an underground place to be. i'm not going to talk without any of them. so i'm not going to vote for you.
in writing. – while, there were many positive provisions contained within this report, i was unable to vote in favour of this report. the dossier called for further involvement of the private sector, businesses and public-private partnerships in disaster management, humanitarian action and national emergency plans. it is patently obvious that the private sector should have no such involvement and that any such involvement would serve only to commercialise humanitarian crises to the detriment of those who have been adversely affected. positive aspects of the report included calling for matters such as population increase, urbanisation, climate change, gender equality and migration to be taken into account in humanitarian action. moreover, international commitment to reach the target of 0.7% oda/gni, and reducing the militaristic tone of the draft report were reflected in the compromises, which was welcome. however, due to the calling for involvement of the private sector, i had no choice but to abstain on this report.
in writing. ‒ the world is being faced with humanitarian crises unprecedented both in their number, scale and persistence. the number of people in need has more than doubled since 2004 to over 100 million in 2015. 250 million people are affected by humanitarian crises and the number of forcibly displaced persons has reached its highest point since world war ii at nearly 60 million and over half of the world’s refugees are children. this own-initiative report aims to give clear inputs to the first world humanitarian summit (whs) to be held in istanbul from 23 to 24 may 2016.
in writing. – i abstained because i believe the eu creates many of these same humanitarian problems in the first place.
in writing. ‒ i, along with alde, voted strongly in favour of this report. the un secretary-general called for a first-ever world humanitarian summit (whs) to be planned to be held in istanbul next may. in a world being faced with unprecedented humanitarian crisis there is a clear call to shift the focus from response to prevention. the aim of the summit is to determine the future agenda in the fields of international humanitarian law, humanitarian intervention and assistance, as well as to establish norms strengthening international law and practice in this domain.
in writing. ‒ i support this report except in such instances whereby national governments were obliged to make compulsory financial payments, as this is an issue of national competence.
in writing. – i abstained on this report which was aimed at developing a sustainable european base metals industry. the base metals sector is one that is facing many difficulties in europe at the moment due to competition and a fall in demand. furthermore, multinational companies have taken advantage of lower social and environmental standards to shift production to countries outside of europe, resulting in huge job losses on the continent. while i could see good aspects of the report which were aimed at improving the social and employment aspects of the base metal sector, i could not support this report for its weaknesses on environmental issues. parts of the report sought to blame regulations put in place to save the environment for the choice of these multinationals so move elsewhere. for these reasons, i chose to abstain.
in writing. ‒ the draft report stresses the need to support the base metal industry as it is particularly vulnerable to outside competition (dumping prices) and also to eu climate and energy policy. it also addresses the problem of heightened loss of competitiveness of several basic materials industries such as the steel, aluminium and non-ferrous metals industries. the eu therefore needs to help building an efficient frame for these sectors in order to re-establish their economic potential.
in writing. – i voted in favour as the overall thrust is positive.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report as it deals with several concerning issues that need to be highlighted in the basic material industry in europe such as climate change, border adjustment measures, emissions policy, energy policy, transparency and merger acquisitions. the overall aim of this own initiative report is to identify new conditions under which base metals industries, such as steel, aluminium and non-ferrous metals can prosper in the eu. i believe that a level playing field has to be ensured for the european base metal industry, however; initially it is best to focus on the upcoming ets reform in order to come up with a well-balanced and thought through reform that benefits all.
in writing. ‒ i voted for this report because it stresses the need to support the base metal industry as it in particular is vulnerable to outside competition and also to eu climate and energy policy. the report also addresses the problem of heightened loss of competitiveness of several basic materials industries such as the steel, aluminium or non-ferrous metals industries. it is critical that the eu builds an efficient framework for these sectors in order to re-establish their economic potential. the overall target of this report is in line with the epp group’s priority to re-industrialise europe through investments and to promote an international level playing field in this sector.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report to support the base metal industry, which is particularly vulnerable to outside competition and challenges.
in writing. – i voted in favour as the resolution is positive for human rights. as a former ‘economic migrant’ myself, how else could i act?
that concludes the explanations of vote.
mr president, at the beginning of november i had the privilege of being part of a small delegation from the european parliament who visited vietnam; i see some of the colleagues who also went are here and will probably be speaking later. it was a wonderful occasion. we were well received and vietnam was very appreciative, particularly of the eur 400 million we are giving under the present framework programme, much of which is going to combat climate change. that is certainly to be commended. they also expressed a desire to see the free trade agreement come into being as soon as possible and, as has been said, it has now been signed by us and by their prime minister a few weeks ago in brussels. the people of vietnam are, i think, lovely people. they ride around on little motorbikes, which is lovely to see, in their rather strange and chaotic traffic management system, but it works. we can certainly do an awful lot to help them. one area which we also need to focus on is the provocative actions by china in the south china sea. this is not good enough and building artificial islands and so on is contrary to the international law of the sea and we have to stand with vietnam in trying to bring china to heel on that matter. i am very pleased to say that in my own country of ireland we have had diplomatic relations with vietnam since 1996 and have had an embassy there since 2005. we have an excellent ambassador, cáit moran, who does tremendous work, particularly in helping to oversee the irish aid programme in vietnam, and indeed we have some gaelic football teams there as well, which is my background. so i think we can say that vietnam is a country that is going places quickly. we can certainly help the vietnamese regarding human rights. sandra kalniete said that with the fta that will improve over time. certainly, as a strategic partner i think we can make a lot of progress, from both a business point of view and a human rights point of view and particularly for improving the quality of life of the vietnamese people in the future.
mr president, the fact that we already have a directive and a 2012 resolution on this matter makes the issue clear: that the epo’s enlarged board of appeal has again issued a finding to create the possibility to patent biological processes, and this is unacceptable, commissioner. what we are witnessing is entrepreneurship on the part of the patent office, the logic of whose entire existence depends on the granting of patents. if we allow this sort of practice to continue, then we threaten food production, food security, plant innovation and biotechnology and essentially give further power to multinationals over our food supply. what the epo has done with its decision of 25 march 2012 basically amounts to commercialisation of the natural world. it is my understanding – and maybe the commissioner can clarify this – that there are currently 260 such patent applications pending in the pipeline, which is why the commission must urgently clarify and consider revising directive 98/44/ec so that unrestricted access to biological material is safeguarded.
member of the commission.– mr president, i have listened carefully to the exchanges on the issues surrounding plant-related patents and plant breeders’ rights. i would like to thank the honourable members for all their comments. i personally share some – and maybe several – of the concerns mentioned, and i intend to convey all these concerns to my colleague elżbieta bieńkowska, who is in charge of this matter. in closing, i will stress again a few key points. i could see the political will here to clarify the current legal situation on this issue, and i wish to assure you that the commission is already considering all possible solutions. i am convinced that a pragmatic way of ensuring legal clarity can be found without the need to revise the biotech directive. we are ready to cooperate with the forthcoming dutch presidency in looking for workable and well-balanced solutions that can be put in place quickly and can be used by all parties involved.
author.– mr president, ibrahim halawa and myself have a number of things in common. two of them are that we are irish citizens and we are european citizens. in that context, and crucially because ibrahim halawa was a minor when he was detained, i would ask the egyptian authorities to unconditionally and immediately release ibrahim halawa to the irish authorities. i use those words ‘immediately and unconditionally’ because ibrahim halawa has spent 849 days in prison and his trial has been adjourned ten times. i use those words ‘immediately and unconditionally’ because ibrahim halawa has been declared a prisoner of conscience by amnesty international. i use those words because ibrahim halawa, along with 493 individuals, awaits a mass trial without any guarantee of a free and fair trial. finally, i use those words ‘immediately and unconditionally’ because the irish government has requested his release under presidential decree law 140. finally, i acknowledge and commend the diplomatic and consular efforts of the irish authorities and many of my mep colleagues, who have raised this issue in parliament on a number of occasions, and in particular my colleague lynn boylan, who has ensured that his name and his case will be remembered.
author.– mr president, firstly i would like to thank all groups in the house for their cooperation in tabling this resolution. as a result, we have unanimity. also particular thanks to my co-authors, especially marian harkin and lynn boylan. as has been stated, it was lynn boylan’s initiative to bring the family out here that led us to table this resolution. i also recognise the strategic role of egypt in that part of the world and the good cooperation europe, and indeed ireland, has with egypt on many fronts, but the case of ibrahim halawa is totally unacceptable. a 17-year-old irish citizen caught up in the protests in cairo in august 2013, arrested and kept in prison ever since in diabolical conditions, contravenes all declarations on human rights, and particularly the rights of a child. so i hope this resolution, in conjunction with the efforts of the minister for foreign affairs, charlie flanagan, and the irish government, will convince the egyptian authorities to resolve this issue and return ibrahim to ireland forthwith.
author.– mr president, i would first like to welcome ibrahim’s sisters, somaia and omaima, who have campaigned tirelessly on their brother’s behalf, and who i am proud to have had the opportunity to work with over the last two years. this resolution rightly condemns the fact that ibrahim – a juvenile at the time of his arrest – faces a mass trial at which he is unable not only to testify, but even to hear the proceedings. i welcome that it is supported across the political spectrum, and especially by my irish colleagues. others have discussed the contents and the case of ibrahim halawa, so what i would like instead is to read the most recent note that ibrahim had smuggled from prison. ‘today is my 20th birthday, and, for the third time, i spend it alone. on this day, i would like to send my best to all those who believe in freedom and defend humanity; those who light a candle every night to remember the weak and oppressed. i do not know you personally, but i pray every sunset that it is time for your candles to light the path of freedom’.
on behalf of the ppe group.– mr president, i join with other colleagues in welcoming this joint motion from all parties. i especially congratulate those who have campaigned tirelessly for ibrahim halawa in the course of the last number of years, and i recognise especially the work of ms boylan in that regard. ibrahim halawa is not just an irish citizen: as ms harkin said, he is a european union citizen. the european union is built on freedom, rights and fundamental human rights, which are inscribed in european law. we expect the european union to believe in those rights and to apply them, and equally we expect third countries with which we have a relationship to uphold those rights as well. i ask the egyptian authorities to take note of the fact that this parliament is speaking with one voice today. i ask them, especially, to use law 140 which, as i understand it, requires a presidential decree allowing ibrahim halawa to come home to ireland, and which has been used in other cases. we need to speak with one voice, and i think the house has done a great service today in highlighting this case.
mr president, listening to this debate i was motivated to speak when i had the opportunity. i rise to thank the house for the cross-party support across member states with their genuine concern for an irish citizen, because he is a citizen of the european union. i hope his family take heart from today’s presentation, but more importantly, i hope the egyptian authorities understand our concerns, and listen to the words we use. we have got to work with them to find a resolution, and this is releasing mr halawa and sending him home to his family. as we speak he languishes in prison. i can only begin to imagine what that must be like for him. yesterday at the sakharov prize we heard of a similar situation. so thank you to the house. i hope our words resonate. i hope we get the result we all call for.
mr president, i am hoping that the debate today will give at least some comfort to ibrahim’s family, some of whom are here. i would like to remind everyone that this is not only about the situation with human rights, but also the rights of the child. ibrahim was 17 when he went to jail, when he was imprisoned. how many others are in prison at that age? how many others have lost their lives? we really have to imagine what it might be like to be a child in those circumstances, if it were our child – and it is, in fact, as ibrahim is an irish citizen. i hope the egyptian authorities are listening to our concerns. i hope they are taking on board the concerns of the european union. it is a case concerning the rights of the child, as well as the rights of an adult human being.
mr president, thank you for the opportunity to contribute to this debate. at the outset, i would like to thank all those who supported this motion and particularly to congratulate our colleague lynn boylan for her efforts in bringing us to this point. i welcome the family of ibrahim halawa, and that they are here today to witness the contributions. in my view, the most important point in this debate is that this young person, ibrahim, was a child, just 17 years of age when he was arrested and detained. i think that should be at the forefront in all our deliberations. he has been in prison for some considerable time and is now 20 years of age. i, like others, would appeal to the egyptian authorities to recognise that he is an irish citizen and a european citizen, to hear our words today and to release ibrahim so that he can return to ireland and to his family. i understand that they have their own systems there, but i think that at this point, for a young man who has been detained for so long without his case reaching trial – the trial has again been deferred this week to saturday – it is a very difficult situation. he was a juvenile, only 17 years of age, and i think that is a very important consideration.
on behalf of the ppe group.– mr president, as a member of the asean delegation, i am well aware of the growing trade relations between the eu and malaysia. indeed, it is second only to trade with singapore. but while trade is improving, the opportunities within malaysia for free speech and freedom of expression are deteriorating. particularly worrying is their strengthening of their sedition law. instead of repealing it, as previously announced, they have strengthened it. this has had serious implications for freedom of expression, with several people arrested, charged or investigated as a result of this. this is not acceptable. they have also taken for themselves the power to declare a state of emergency if they feel it is warranted, and the treatment of lgbti people is ridiculous. at a time when we are moving in the opposite direction – even in my own country – and giving them equal rights in all facets of life, it is unacceptable that a growing trading partner of ours is moving in the opposite direction. we have to address these things in our relations with malaysia.
mr president, i just wanted parliament to acknowledge that ibrahim halawa’s two sisters are here today to hopefully witness unanimous support calling for the release of their brother, ibrahim halawa. so i would just like to welcome somaia and omaima. (applause)
in writing. – i voted in favour of the setting up of a committee of inquiry on emission measurements in the automotive sector. i retain concerns regarding whether such a committee will have the requisite powers needed to address this matter fully; however, it is a positive and progressive move, therefore i voted in favour of such a committee.
in writing. ‒ together with other meps, our request to set up a committee of inquiry to probe into the automobile industry’s illegal practices was accepted and i am very pleased that parliament voted in favour of this. on monday, i voted in the environment committee to reject lax ‘real driving emissions’ standards for measuring compliance with eu car pollution limits. my political group had vowed to veto the proposals in a letter to the eu environment ministers, criticising the commission and the council of eu ministers for the technical proposals on driving emissions tests, diluting the decade-old euro 6 standards. we cannot fail to take action on foot of a scandal with serious impact on respiratory health, the environment and corporate governance at the heart of europe. if we just pay lip service to the principles we are supposed to uphold, we will be validating our citizens’ fears of regulatory capture of our institutions by big corporations. the eu automobile industry cannot be allowed to keep dictating the main thrust of public policies that affect these industrial giants, to the detriment of our citizens’ health and the environment.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this proposal as i am of the belief that setting up a committee of inquiry on emission measurements in the automotive sector will be of no benefit to eu member states and citizens.
in writing. ‒ the framework agreement on comprehensive partnership and cooperation (pca) between the european union and its member states, of the one part, and vietnam, of the other part, was signed on 27 june 2012. the pca provides the basis for more effective engagement by the eu and its member states with vietnam.
in writing. – considering the free trade deal among other concerns i abstained.
in writing. ‒ i voted to support this report, as i agree with what the proposed protocol says, namely that it incorporates the republic of croatia as contracting party to the agreement and commits the eu to providing the authentic version of the agreement in the croatian language.
in writing. ‒ i voted to support this report as the pca provides the basis for more effective engagement by the eu and its member states with vietnam. the agreement covers the eu’s standard political clauses on human rights, the international criminal court, weapons of mass destruction, small arms and lights weapons, and counter terrorism. lastly the pca strengthens the sectoral cooperation across a wide range of policy fields, such as taxation, migration, health, environment, climate change, energy, education and culture, labour, employment and social affairs, science and technology, and transport.
in writing. ‒ i voted to support this report, as vietnam over the past decades has consistently adopted a markedly pro-european approach and has been actively engaged with the eu. vietnam has made great achievements in attaining the mdgs, poverty reduction, economic development, social security, employment, education and healthcare in the last two decades. vietnam is a valued partner for the eu in the climate change negotiations and has pledged to reduce emissions by 8 to 10 per cent, compared with 2010, and to reduce energy consumption per gdp by 1 to 1.5 per cent per year in the run-up to the un climate change conference in paris in november 2015. i welcome the fact that that vietnam has taken specific measures to develop knowledge and research on science and technology, to address the weaknesses in higher education, to attract overseas vietnamese and to cooperate with european and us academic institutions to help in this process.
in writing. ‒ i supported this recommendation as it involves a more effective basis for engagement between the eu and vietnam.
in writing. – i voted against this report which i have a number of serious concerns with. in my capacity as a member of the economic and monetary affairs committee, i have positively and proactively worked on this report. i have tabled a number of amendments to this report in order to improve the text. what is particularly disconcerting is that the pillar of economic governance has been seriously strengthened over the past years to the detriment of member states. the eu now has a multitude of instruments at its disposal, ranging from the fiscal compact on controlling the draft budgetary plans to the macroeconomic excessive imbalances procedure. and this report is not only seeking to consolidate such powers but also to strengthen and enhance them. at the same time, the social pillar is languishing. this is why it is crucial that member states retain ownership and that the principle of subsidiarity is not undermined. as a small county, ireland needs to remain cautious given the inevitable reduction in autonomy and control and i will continue to use my mandate that the irish people provided me with to ensure that irish economic and social interests are protected in europe.
in writing. ‒ i voted to support this resolution, as the initiative report on ‘the review of the economic governance framework: stocktaking and challenges’ underlined the need for ambitious and rapid progress in strengthening the euro area. in reference to the commission’s proposals to strengthen the emu, while recognising that some steps have been taken in the right direction, further efforts will be necessary to address the current shortcomings of the institutional framework of the euro area. the package published by the commission does not leave enough room for parliamentary oversight and debate at european level, which are necessary to ensure the democratic accountability of the decisions taken in the context of the emu and consequently for ensuring citizens’ ownership of euro area governance.
in writing. – while this report contained some positive elements such as such as maintenance of a universal moratorium against the death penalty, there were a number of negative aspects. specifically, the report called for the strengthening and expansion of the role of the eeas and the high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy / vice-president of the commission at the unilateral expense of member states. such interference does not benefit human rights or democracy, conversely it undermines such. therefore, i was unable to support this report and i abstained on the final vote.
in writing. ‒ through this annual report, we show recognition of all that needs to be done, in the years to come, to fight for human rights and democracy inside and outside the eusince the economic crisis, political decisions have been made which clearly undermine citizens’ rights in the eu. and today we are faced with an unprecedented humanitarian crisis within our borders. and that is why it is vital that, today, we work harder in the eu to defend human rights and to promote them. when austerity measures are put in place, we see the that the fulfilment of civil rights, labour rights, health and education rights is compromised. i am pleased to hear that the commission’s main priorities, within external action, will continue to include the protection of human rights, so that this element will continue to shape policies in the near future. at a time of rising populism, this report rightly reiterates the importance of abolishing the death penalty, promoting freedom of speech, promoting lgbti, women’s and children’s rights and continuing support for human rights defenders’ groups in other parts of the world where they are undermined by oppressive governments.
in writing. ‒ the report drafted by cristian dan preda (epp) highlights the importance of the eu making full use of all policy tools at its disposal in order to promote respect for human rights and democratic principles worldwide. the text calls in particular for an effective implementation of the new eu action plan on human rights and democracy 2015 - 2019. the report suggests avenues of action for making human rights dialogues, human rights country strategies and human rights guidelines more meaningful in addressing related shortcomings in third countries. it equally praises the role of the eu special representative for human rights whose visibility and own-initiative powers should be enhanced.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the annual report on human rights and democracy in the world for 2014 which gives an overview of the global situation regarding human rights and had some very positive provisions such as support for the systematic introduction of human rights clauses in all international agreements between the eu and third countries, the need for a comprehensive human rights-based approach to migration, and the need to tackle the root causes of migration by addressing the external dimension of the refugee crisis, opposition to the death penalty, support for lgbti people and the mainstreaming of gender equality. regarding one area on the rights of women and girls, the issue of surrogacy is grey rather than black and white with varying situations and degrees of protection around the world. therefore while i did not vote to condemn the practice or prohibit it as a matter of human rights as many couples with fertility issues benefit from the practice with consenting women, there is an issue concerning the exploitation of vulnerable women in developing countries which needs to be examined further, hence my differing votes on these sections.
in writing. ‒ i decided to support this report because having respect for, along with the promotion and safeguarding of, human rights must be cornerstones of the eu’s external action. the increased coherence between eu internal and external policies, as well as between the eu’s external policies stands as an indispensable requirement for a successful and effective eu human rights policy. improved consistency should enable the eu to respond more rapidly in the early stages of human rights violations. respect for human rights is being challenged and is under threat worldwide and the universality of human rights is being seriously challenged by a number of authoritarian regimes. finally, more than half the world’s population is still living under non—democratic and repressive regimes and global freedom has continuously declined over the past few years, and this non—respect of human rights has a cost for society and for the individual.
in writing. ‒ i supported the overall report to help the eu make use of its full toolbox to promote human rights and democratic principles throughout the world. on paragraph 114 i voted to condemn the practice of surrogacy when it involves reproductive exploitation.
in writing. – i voted in favour of this resolution which marked the 20th anniversary of the dayton peace agreement. the resolution commemorates the dayton peace agreement that was signed 20 years ago, bringing an end to the war in bosnia and herzegovina, while also making reference to the current situation. the main emphasis of the resolution was on the constitutional framework, calling for support for strengthening democratic rights in the country, and the return of refugees and internally displaced persons.
in writing. ‒ set against the background of continued political and ethnic tensions in bosnia and herzegovina, the 20th anniversary of the dayton peace agreements (dpa) is an opportunity to commend the country on the efforts it has made in moving from a situation of harsh armed conflict resulting in the death of thousands and the displacement of millions of people to a situation where there have been no serious military incidents in the recent years.
in writing. ‒ i voted to support this resolution as the dayton peace agreement is an opportunity to commend the country on the efforts it has made in moving from a situation of harsh armed conflict resulting in the death of thousands and the displacement of millions of people to a situation where there has been no serious military incidents in recent years. full implementation of the dpa is in order to ensure sustainable return and also fair, comprehensive and durable solutions for internally displaced people, refugees and other conflict- affected persons, continues to be needed. addressing the socio-economic needs of citizens must be the priority, as well as the establishment of an effective coordination mechanism on eu matters. it is also crucial to continue, in parallel, with political reforms and democratisation of the political system, which will lead in the direction of ensuring true equality and democratic representation of all three constituent peoples and all the country’s citizens. all citizens of bosnia and herzegovina must have an equal opportunity to be elected to all levels of political decision-making.
in writing. ‒ i supported this motion for a resolution as it is an opportunity to commend the country (bosnia and herzegovina) on the efforts it has made in moving from a situation of armed conflict resulting in the death of thousands and the displacement of millions of people to a situation where there have been no serious military incidents in the recent years.
in writing. – while we support the acknowledgement of the connection of arms exports with the escalation of conflicts and repression, especially regarding exports to guilty regimes responsible for human rights abuses, and the reference to the illicit trade in arms, there was still a strong negative aspect as there was not enough emphasis on curtailing and reducing the influence and production of the legal arms trade.
in writing. ‒ in this report the european parliament calls for stricter application of the eight criteria of the common position and possibilities of extending them to the transfer of arms-export-related services like consultancy or eu based private military companies, and for a coordinated approach at eu level.
in writing. ‒ i decided to abstain on this vote as ireland is a neutral country.
in writing. ‒ i abstained in the final vote on this report as it is unrealistic in the demands for delivery of information by member states in terms of licences issued, and in general the arms trade is a national competence.
mr president, i was very happy to support this resolution because it is essential that we maintain what is known as the breeders’ exemption. essentially, this means that access to all breeding materials is available to all breeders. this means that all modern varieties, as well as landraces and wild species are available. we have to ensure that varieties are kept freely available, without patents, for all who wish to breed. it does not matter if they are subsistence farmers, if they are gardeners, or if they are small businesses in the plant breeding industry. that is why i fully support the call on the commission to clarify the scope and the interpretation of directive 98/44/ec. we have to ensure legal clarity in regard to the prohibition of the patentability of products obtained from essentially biological processes. i did support amendment 5, which asked for a comprehensive breeders’ exemption. that means free commercialisation of new traits. i was disappointed that it was not carried because i think it would certainly have added to what is otherwise a good resolution.
in writing. ‒ i supported this resolution as access to biological plant material encompassing plant traits is absolutely necessary for boosting innovation and the development of new varieties in order to guarantee global food security, tackle climate change and prevent monopolies within the breeding sector, while at the same time providing more opportunities for smes. intellectual property rights are important in order to safeguard economic incentives for developing new plant products and to deliver competitiveness. plant breeding is an innovative process that has been practised by farmers and farming communities since the birth of agriculture while unpatented varieties and breeding methods are important for genetic diversity.
in writing. ‒ i supported this motion for a resolution as it calls on the commission to urgently clarify the rules governing the patentability of plants.
in writing. – i voted in favour of this resolution and moreover, prior to this resolution, i supported the open letter, prepared by the parliamentarians for global action together with fidh, to support human rights defenders in burundi, who have been systematically targeted in the past months by both the government and armed forces. the actions of the burundian government are reprehensible. they have responded to public protests with extremely repressive measures, including extra-judicial killings, arbitrary detentions, and restrictions on freedom of expression. it is estimated that 230 000 people have fled to neighbouring countries. it is further reported that 87 people were killed following attacks on three military bases in the capital, bujumbura, only last week. some of the victims appear to have been shot in reprisals carried out by the security forces. i and my sinn féin colleagues are deeply concerned about the ongoing violence and human rights violations in burundi, and i will continue to use my role as a member of parliament to ensure that this matter is brought to the attention of the international community.
in writing. ‒ in its resolution, the epp insists on the need to stop all violence and political intimidation and urges the government of burundi to respect its obligations to guarantee fundamental rights under all international and regional human rights instruments.
in writing. ‒ i voted along with alde against this joint motion for a resolution on the situation in burundi. burundi has reached a stage of absolute chaos where armed forces are arbitrarily killing their own citizens. the unacceptable state of affairs means the international community has to take serious action to avert a civil war, this resolution is simply not enough. first and foremost, peace must be established and international laws respected and applied to be on a first-step basis for violence reduction in the country.
in writing. ‒ i supported this resolution due to the fact that burundi is facing an unprecedented political, security and humanitarian crisis, with more than 200 people killed and an estimated number of 200 000 people having fled the country. human rights organisations have reported on the growing politically motivated violence and impunity in the country, and the countless human rights violations and abuses, mainly caused by the ruling authorities. there is an urgent need to stop all violence and political intimidation, and urgency on the government of burundi to respect their obligations to guarantee fundamental rights under all international and regional human rights instruments.
in writing. ‒ i supported this motion for a resolution which urges the government of burundi to respect their obligations to guarantee fundamental rights under all international and regional human rights instruments and insists on the need to stop all violence and political intimidation.
in writing. ‒ the deve committee resolution, among other things, stresses the absolute need to prevent irreversible damage to the virunga national park (vpn), which was designated by unesco as a world heritage site in 1979, and as a world heritage site in danger in 1994; deplores that the vnp has also become one of the most dangerous places in the world when it comes to wildlife conservation; emphasises that irreversible damage to the vnp could occur as a result of exploration and exploitation of oil or other illegal activities; calls on the commission and the member states to further address, in an effective manner, the root causes of armed conflicts and corruption, to support sustainable development and peace-building strategies and projects in the vnp and in the surrounding region; and urges the commission, the member states, the democratic republic of congo and the oil companies interested in drilling for oil to protect the current borders and neighbouring areas of the vnp from the exploitation of fossil fuels.
in writing. ‒ i supported this resolution due to the fact that despite its status as protected wilderness, the park has been under threat for decades by armed groups that engage in poaching, deforestation and other forms of unsustainable and illegal resource exploitation. as a result, virunga has been included on the list of world heritage sites in danger. mass poverty, a weak state, poor governance and regional insecurity would have severe socially and environmentally destabilising effects. according to the 2013 wwf report entitled ‘the economic value of virunga park’, the virunga national park currently has an annual economic value of usd 48.9 million. in a stable situation, the park could contribute to growth in the economy and in tourism, and could have a value of usd 1 billion per year and create 45 000 jobs.
